ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 61st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mojca Žnidarič by 19:00, Marijan Pojbič, only Bevk by 14:00, etc. Franz Runk by 1:00. I invited the candidate for the new President of the Government, Karl Viktor Erjavac and Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 61st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 12 February 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 61st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal for the election of the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 116 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 254 and Article 255 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubović proposed to the National Assembly that the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be elected by Karl Viktor Erjavc and thus votes against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Branet Golubović, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u2	Respectable citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government, candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly and all present! “Honest cooperation cannot grow in the field, consumed by the humus of constant contempt and depravity, discretion and lies, hatred and insult, creating emergency situations and neglect of fear. Such non-participation is not about excluding one policy, the SDS policy, but it is about a civil standard, accountability to people, to the country." These are the statements, colleagues and colleagues I made on 3 March last year when I decided on the current Prime Minister of the Government. I asked myself whether he would know and be able to see beyond his beliefs or whether, on the contrary, despite the continued emphasis on the importance of cooperation and integration, he would continue to divide and disrespect those of other opinion. I allowed the opportunity to change, but at the same time I doubted that he had become a statesman, that is, wise, tolerant, respectful and inclusive. That's when we decided, and we made it very clear to you that we will not be included in the demolition of state institutions, because this represents the destruction of the country. That we will not be involved if you barter with human rights, with media independence and the judiciary; if you threaten public good, public services and nature; if you weaken the economy, the social state or the stability of public finances. All this and more you're doing, Prime Minister, with your SDS today. I'm sorry. The epidemic for doing so cannot and must not be an excuse, so today's debate and vote on the lack of confidence on the part of the President of the Government are a logical consequence of the almost one-year conscious action of the SDS government and the destruction of our country's fundamental demands. How this government does not respect our country, the Constitution and democratic processes also shows the mockery and denial of the constructive distrust of one of the opposition's constitutional tools by the President of the Government and two of its vice-presidents. They were talking about hopelessness and stuff. However, ridicule, profanity and discretion are also common among all those who have argued against the work of the Government and who point to violations of the rule of law. But this must not surprise us, this is the way the extreme right works, this is nothing new for the government of the SDS and its supporter NSI. The honourable Members and Members before us is a simple question which concerns everyone in our country. There's nothing in it we can make fun of. This is a serious question in which everyone should consider a question where Members and Members should be particularly careful not to be misled by their own or their party interests. When we vote, we must be led by the responsibility of the people who, in the elections, empowered us to run this country on behalf of all of them, including those who did not vote on us who did not participate in the elections. It is a matter of the future of our country or, as the candidate for the new Prime Minister, Mr Karl Erjavec, it is a question of what country we want to live in. Do we really want to live in a country of SDS measure, which, before our eyes and under the cover of the epidemic, demolishes fundamental democratic units by abuse of key institutions and by autocratic adoptions, step by step, takes over all social subsystems, redefines constitutional standards, subversive nets and destroys our international situation? The aim of the SDS is clear: to kidnap democratic processes, democratic institutions and the country and to freeze the constitution, the highest act of agreement in a community. Without respect for the Constitution, we are left with only lawlessness, governmental will, an authoritarian state and a society without a future. Or we want to live in a democratic country that we citizens of Slovenia advocated on plebiscite 30 years ago; a country that we built on the basis of freedom of speech and political action, the independence of the media and justice, the protection of human rights and equality against law, solidarity, social cohesion and environmental sensitivity, tolerance and culture. Respectable citizens and citizens! In the five opposition parties LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and Desus we have filed a constructive non-trust with which we are attempting to stop the government of Janez Janša today. Why? Since the takeover of power in March 2020, it has systematically violated the fundamental principles of constitutional regulation, such as the division of power, respect for independent institutions and the freedom of the media, because it has compromised Slovenia's reputation in the European Union and Slovenia's foreign policy position in the international community through reckless actions. Because under his leadership the government was unable to deal effectively with the covid-19 epidemic and its consequences and brought Slovenia to the top of a tragic world scale of the dead and the infected. If I mention only some extreme cases of the SDS government doing from March 2020 to today. The permanent and systematic establishment of the basis for the constitutional separation between the branches of the authorities in order to safeguard the interests of the SDS party. Let us recall the illegal and illegal interference of the President of the Government and also the Minister of the Interior with justice, the prosecution and the Constitutional Court. The SDS government is consciously ignoring the constitutional order in the country. We all remember the actions of the Prime Minister of the Government at the irrevocable resignation of the Minister of the Interior when the President of the Government made fun of the non-opening of the envelope and ignored the National Assembly and thus violated article 115 of the Constitution of Slovenia. And by the way, Minister Hoys is still in this position. The SDS government systematically seeks to weaken, decompose and subordinate public television and radio, the Slovenian Press Agency and all other media that the SDS does not have under direct capital control. He takes over the management of independent institutions in order to gain influence and benefits for the SDS and, of course, for its people. We're talking about the police, the NPU, the Financial Administration, the Statistical Office, the Bureau for Prevention of Money Laundering, Intelligence and Security Services and others. Just for an illustration of which people are set aside for important functions. The State Secretary in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of National Security, the Director General of the Police, the Director of the Sowe – these are the people where we could see that they were following on Twitter and reviving extreme European movements. The government of SDS degrades and undermines public education, health care and cultural institutions. Under the cover of the fight against the epidemic, she has acquired a number of powers that go beyond the constitutional position of the government. There is still a curfew in this country, we have very long closed municipal borders, in fact because of the fear of government with decrees. It allows its ministers and other officials to violate their own rules and regulations at the time of the epidemic and thus divides citizens into first- and second-class ones. The last two cases are the opening of the inn for the so-called meeting of Minister Restovalsk and the refusal or verification of Minister Hojs in their private time, or the Croatian police perform the work entrusted to them by the Croatian government. With opaque and controversial behaviour, the SDS government is increasing the risk of corruption. Suspicious purchases of unused fans and masks, electronic tolling and last case – quick tests. In addition to this, the SDS government did not prepare for the second wave of the epidemic in the summer, resulting in ineffective covid-19 management. In this regard, the main reasons for the dramatic high death tax, particularly among the oldest, and the excessive number of infected persons and at least four months of state closure should be sought. If we list only a few errors of the SDS government: late, chaotic and consistent action and vague and threatening communication; frequent changes in guidance that were neither clear nor justified, often illogical; insufficient willingness to go home for the elderly to the second wave of the epidemic; inappropriate and excessive action in the field of education. She did not analyze or try to understand where and why the epidemic was spreading most rapidly, and for that reason she overlooked the true hotspots of infection and took false measures that did not limit the spread of the virus. It has not taken measures to increase its incentives to work from home. She did not take measures to ensure that all infected people, regardless of where they were infected, had a hundred percent hospital. It has taken inadvertent and wrong decisions on the issue of quarantine decisions. It did not accept effective, rapid and sufficient assistance for businesses and craftsmen who had or still have closed their activities under the Government's decision or because of the epidemic, reduced operations and lower revenues. In addition, the SDS government is hiding from the public a recovery and resilience plan for which funds will be allocated to the European Union and is a fundamental development document for the outcome of the crisis, which should be prepared in public, with cooperation with the public and with different expertise. The SDS government is planning to push Slovenia into a society of the most controversial EU members who do not respect the rule of law, minority rights, gender equality and sexual orientation. It allows rhetoric of intolerance, xenophobia, homophobia, hatred and lies, and the discretion of all who are critical to the government. Because of all the above, and this is all the more important, it is now the last time for a constructive distrust. It is not about power or political prestige, it is a democratic attempt to end the harmful government and the practices of this government and to restore normality, stability, tolerance, solidarity, optimism and freedom to society. We've had all of this a while ago. Lately, it is for a new government team that will realize that the country is for the people and not the other way around and that the task of the ruling policy is to manage the country on behalf of all citizens and citizens. A government team that will truly believe that the key to solving the epidemic is people with whom to communicate properly, to be considered partners and to build on mutual trust and solidarity. A government team with an alternative programme in the area of epidemic and health, green and digital transformation and solidarity. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Karl Erjavec is a candidate who has demonstrated that he is aware of the danger of SDS extreme policy and has also strongly resisted this policy along with Desus. He has demonstrated that he understands the importance of democratic values and their protection, is an experienced politician, a long-standing president of the parliamentary party and a multiple minister, has all the necessary competences to be able, together with advanced and moderate forces, to lead the government to regular elections. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished residents and residents! The bad year was a flashing year, and the wrong policies for the entire mandate were gathered. At that time, the Government made the most important decisions in a rapid manner, without analysis, dialogue and respect for the principle of works and rule. At times, it seemed that the Government was trying to make such bad decisions that they would become part of everyday life and the general public, voters and the media would no longer pay attention to them. Willingly and without serious dialogue, including by playing public, the SDS policy has been pursued, which has even prevented coalition partners from taking part in some important decisions. Despite opposition from coalition partners, the ruling party continued to fight ideologically and culturally, bringing more unrest and unnecessary dispersion instead of seeking solutions between citizens and citizens. In addition to adopting controversial and reckless decisions by ministers of the ruling party, we have also witnessed the humiliation, mockery and contempt of citizens and citizens and the constant pressure on the independent functioning of the media. Although that may be the case, the last three paragraphs I said were not written in the last days, weeks, or months. I cited the phrases that the opposition's representative in this Chamber said 8 years ago, on 27 February 2013, when MEPs and Members voted constructively against Janez Janša. There was also a crisis, economic, financial, social crisis in the country, which deepened from month to month. Janez Janša left her solution out of her hands, instead of looking for the right solutions that any statesman, any good crisis manager, strategist, would have done, the SDS government would rather devote itself to changing the state structure and establishing an autocratic government after the taste of SDS. The consequences of the wrong and harmful decisions of this government have been horrifying and have been remedied for many years. Fortunately, he failed in 2013 and his government was replaced by both opposition and coalition MPs and MPs. At that time, they were able to show courage and responsibility to the state. Why not simply repeat the moves of eight years ago when, despite the severe crisis in the country, there was a sufficient majority who knew and managed to say no to radical politics? Today, we know that on 27 February 2013, Members of the opposition and members of the coalition did the right thing. Will we be able to gather wisdom, and some also courage, and vote in favour of replacing the government? Will there be enough of us on the right side of history? [[Laugh]] On the side of a democratic Slovenia? We will see, we will see if you will take over the ballots if you do not obstruct one of the foundations, the fundamental tools of the opposition, which is also written in the Constitution. Today we have the last chance to protect the country from a ruthless and extreme policy that does not respect the Constitution and fundamental democratic values, which undermines the independence of state institutions and the human rights barant, is mocked by people, opposition and professions. We cannot do this alone in the opposition because we are too few. In this Chamber today, we want those who know that in order to protect our constitutional order, our country, our way of life, to put on the side of partial interests and to vote for people, for the country, for freedom, for solidarity, for human rights and for the well-being of all. Vote for normal present and future. History repeats itself, colleagues and colleagues. I want all of us to remember together that the then fall of the government of Janez Janša, despite the difficult and difficult times and times that followed, was a positive event for the development of Slovenia. There will be no further examination in this term. Let me finish with a quote from the Scottish liberal democrat, with whom I completed my performance on 3 March when the mandate holder was elected: "If you lose power in the fight for values, all you have is respect and hope that you will succeed next time. But if you lose your values in the struggle for power, you have nothing left." I add, today, to win democratic values and courage over partial interests and the sinking of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the new Prime Minister, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with Article 255, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Respected citizens and citizens, the President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, distinguished representatives and representatives of the people, who in this Chamber of Democracy represent the will of all Slovenian citizens and citizens who decide on their behalf and represent our Slovenia at home and in the world. Let me tell you why I think a constructive distruster must succeed. We want investors of constructive non-trust to form a new government aimed at halting the denormalisation of the country. We do not trust investors in the current government, so we want to stop the failure to respect fundamental constitutional principles, stop the push of Slovenia into a group of countries with problems with respect for the rule of law, and stop the government's ineffective fight against the covid-19 pandemic. In our parliamentary history, investing in a constructive non-trust is very rare, rather an exception than a rule. This time, constructive distrust is put in particular because we are at a turning point for the future of our country. Citizens face the most dangerous pandemic in hundreds of years, and at the same time the efforts of the current government to enforce so-called authoritarian democracy. Today, February 15, 2021, in the year we celebrate 30 years of our country, the elected representatives of the people will decide between authoritarian Slovenia and normal, constitutional, democratic Slovenia. Your vote will say whether you are in favour of Slovenia of populism, which ignores the rule of law, disregards respect for human rights and respect for independent constitutional institutions, oppresses the freedom of the media and the autonomy of the university, and disregards the profession and scientific knowledge, or whether, honourable Members and Members, you will decide on a constitutional, democratic Slovenia that respects the generally accepted values set by our Constitution. Dear representatives of the people, you are not deciding on Karl Viktor Erjavac today. Today you decide whether you will allow the current government to continue to weaken the democratic gains we have built over the past 30 years. You will vote on this today in this temple of democracy, on behalf of all those who have entrusted you with this important mission of deciding on the future of Slovenia. Citizens want a normal Slovenia, they want a well-managed and well-managed Slovenia. Let us therefore ask together whether what is happening today in Slovenia is normal. After 11 months of operation of the current government, which was even a majority at the beginning, we clearly see that the Government is not pursuing the main objective of the welfare of citizens or implementing a coalition treaty for the benefit of all citizens, but is all subordinate to the transformation of the country into an authoritarian democracy. Where do you see it most today? In the fight against covid-19 epidemics, which often do not have a professional basis, but are purely political calculation. By imprisoning people to municipal borders, curfews and closing down educational institutions, the longest in Europe, the government has deliberately reached into important inalienable rights and freedoms of people. Experts strongly point out that these measures have no positive effects. They do not, of course, because the current government under the leadership of the SDS is pursuing with them another, the most important programme objective for it, namely the establishment of another republic. This thesis was not invented by me and not only by me but also by some of the most prominent newspapers, such as The New York Times and Le Monde. The authoritarian policy implemented by the President of the Government does not aim to strengthen the constitutional independent institutions, nor to strengthen media freedom and effective action in the pandemic, but rather, rather, weakens the constitution of an independent institution, subjugates the media and adopts such epidemiological measures that enable the achievement of narrow ideological client objectives. All of this is not only a political consequence, but also a profound legal and social impact. That's why there's uncertainty and fear in the country. Citizens do not know what measures they can expect the next day. Citizens are afraid for their jobs, for the education of their children. This government deepens uncertainty and fear among citizens also because there are no good solutions to the covid-19 pandemic. Many epidemiological statistics confirm that we are among the world's worst countries in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic despite the exceptional sacrifice of health and other personnel, even though we have a fairly well-developed health system on a global scale. This situation is not surprising, however, since all important decisions have been taken by the President of the Government, often beyond the opinions of the former Minister of Health and beyond the profession. The government is not only ineffective, it is still inconsistent in the implementation of its own measures once it has opened certain activities and closes them again within a few days without analysis and without taking account of the profession. Worse still, even their own ministers do not respect them – I will not cite cases because they are all very well known to you. Since it is ineffective and inconsistent in implementing measures, it also introduces censorship for the public performance of certain ministers and even experts who could raise awareness of the epidemic. With all this, it has fundamentally undermined the trust of people who are urgently needed to overcome the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, I must touch on the testimony of the current Prime Minister of the Government that our submission of a constructive non-trust during the most difficult crisis due to the covid-19 pandemic is irresponsible behaviour and reluctance by the opposition. The combined opposition associated with the KUL coalition has been constructively supporting all meaningful solutions and measures to alleviate the pandemic all the time in the National Assembly. Finally, at the first wave, we were able to see them fly into victory over the Allied aircraft pandemic. Most of the cases related to the resolution of the pandemic were also supported by the opposition, but of course the solutions that had the opposite objective were not supported — only the achievement of some of the SDS' narrow ideological objectives. The public should be reminded that in each of the PKP packages, such promoters were. In short, in the National Assembly, neither the opposition nor the coalition partners prevented the government from doing what its President, the government, would normally do. This can also be illustrated by the fact that by mid-January, during the second wave, at the time of the worst pandemic, there was no intervention against ministers and ministers, although many would have earned it in view of the incompetent work. Therefore, the claim is that due to a constructive mistrust, the Government was unable to work successfully, untrue and misleading. With constructive confidence, we want to give Members and Members of the National Assembly an opportunity to elect a government; a government that will stop interference with independent democratic institutions; a government that will strengthen fundamental constitutional principles, the independence of constitutional institutions, the division of powers, the freedom of the university and the media; a government that will respect professionally not only the pandemic, but also in all areas of social and economic life. It is quite clear that failure to respect and deny the profession also leads to authoritarianism, which is seen by the current government practically every day. The new government's programming origins will not be based on captivating and kidnapping the state and its institutions, on hostility or authoritarianism, but on building mutual trust, including professions, strengthening public systems, connecting with civil society, strengthening open society and, in particular, providing solidarity to people who really need help, but not by dividing who is ours and who is not ours. Unlike the policy of the President of the Government of the Common Goals, we will not be pursuing a criminal policy that establishes absurdly high fines for citizens for violating non-life government decisions – let us remember the case of burek. The policy of the new government will not be a policy in which the President of the Government, together with the Minister of the Interior, uses a Twitter order to be dealt with by the police. Let us recall that it would be good for the police to deal with the presence of Karl Erjavac here for the purpose of issuing confidentiality regarding the draft Court of Auditors report. The policy of the new government will not be to establish a police state in which citizens will be treated selectively in principle, which is ours, and this is not. The policy of the new government will not be exclusive and will not threaten to forgive experts who do not have the same opinion as the government. The current government, unfortunately, does all that. Let me just mention the recent replacement of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and the case in this National Assembly, when one of the SDS Members requested that an adviser from the Legislative and Legal Service be dismissed because she did not follow the ruling policy by means of her professional legal opinion. In particular, the policy of the new government will work to strengthen the confidence of all three branches of government, to strengthen confidence in expertise and to strengthen confidence in scientifically proven knowledge. Unfortunately, even in this national assembly, we find bizarre views that climate change is a fraud and not a scientific fact. In particular, the policy of the new government will aim at strengthening the confidence of citizens and citizens. The policy of the new government is to make Slovenia a normal country again. Your Honor! The fact that the President of the Government is rounding down his position also shows the untruths he is saying about political crises during the pandemic. He says that there are no political and governmental crises anywhere in the world at this time, because the opposition around the world, in particular in Europe, is supposed to renounce causing government crises during the pandemic. The truth, of course, is different. Let me just list the news of the month of January: both the Dutch and the Italian governments have resigned, we already have a new Italian government, the Estonian Prime Minister has resigned, the Netherlands will continue elections in Bulgaria, and they were in Kosovo and Portugal yesterday. We also hear similar untruths about the functioning and decision-making of constitutional courts in Europe during the crisis. The President of the Government is prepared to charge even the Constitutional Court with failure to deal with the epidemic for suspending the implementation of the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. You could all read a tweet with an official government stamp saying that the Constitutional Court is becoming a threat in terms of the ability of the state to function normally. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health of the SDS quota, like the President of the Government, freely declares on national television that Slovenia is the only country to defend itself before the Constitutional Court on the issue of the epidemic. Let me explain only with the case of Germany, where the Constitutional Court has repeatedly referred to the measures of the epidemic, and it does not come to the attention of the High Representatives of the German Government to challenge the German Constitutional Court for deciding on matters relating to their actions during the pandemic. According to the National Bureau of Investigation, which undertook the spring purchase investigation, these are masks, respirators and the like, according to the Statistical Office, which did not follow the Government's expectations, according to the Court of Auditors, which drafted the report on spring acquisitions of protective masks and other medical equipment, the Constitutional Court is now clearly the institution to be discredited. Dear High Council, representatives of the people! Will you really let the current government weaken all the democratic pillars? Will you really allow this government to complete its project for the establishment of another republic by the end of this term? This is not what most of our citizens and citizens want, so I suggest you support a constructive mistrust. On this occasion, I should like to reiterate the fundamental values for you and for all our citizens, where, with the initiative for the Coalition of the Constitutional Loka, Dr. Jožet P. Damjan, for which I especially thank him, I have managed to obtain allies and many societies and also to unify the opposition's parties. These values are also the basis for which the Desus party joined the initiative. I would like you to accept these values as my pre-eminent commitment, that I will take them into account in the process of forming a new government and later in the daily hard work, and if you give me your trust today, I can say the following. First time. The government will deal with the covid-19 pandemic more effectively, more consistently and professionally. Another time. Inviolability of the principle of the division of power between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Third time. Combating poverty and inequality and social exclusion and ensuring a dignified age. Fourth time. The commitment to strengthen the independence of institutions key to the transparent functioning of the State, as well as public media, NGOs and civil society. Fifth. Stable and regular jobs with higher added value and predictable entrepreneurial environment with financial incentives for creative breakthroughs. Six. Returning the current profession to key state institutions and accounting by corruption. It's a week. Investing in the quality and accessibility of public health, education and long-term care systems. Eight. Stable and increased investment in science and culture and halting pointless investments in arms at a time when other priorities are important. Nine. Systemic solutions for full compatibility of Slovenia with the EU Green Agreement and digital transformation. Ten years. Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. Dear Members and Members! When I said a good year ago that I was withdrawing from politics and public life, I did not expect to speak before you here again, in the temple of democracy, about such important things that are happening in Slovenia. So let me be a little personal in my performance. A lot of people are asking me why I went back to politics. I believe that you did not want this in one part of this House, but I have returned with the motivation to contribute, with my experience and knowledge, to the best of my ability, so that the party Desus, which celebrates 30 years this year, will remain a parliamentary party. This decision has taken place in the midst of unpredictable epidemiological and political events, which unfortunately shake not only Slovenia, but the whole world. Our specificity is unfortunately that poor management of the pandemic is only the most obvious expression of the poor and ineffective work of the current government. The current government sees a solution to all problems mainly in the decision of the Prime Minister, and his decision is aimed at decommissioning the country and its subsystems. Everything that has been built in the last 30 years is, in the opinion of this Government, deplorable, intended to be the remains and settlements of the former country or deep country. With this logic, the current government wants to transform our Slovenia into an authoritarian democracy in which one person decides about all by means of absolute party discipline and absolute party affiliation. In the 2018 elections, the authorities of Desusa decided not to participate with the government in which the SDS is located. This decision by Desus was taken on the basis of our experience in participating in two governments with SDS. It has always proved, and today this is fully confirmed, that for the governments led by Janez Janša, it is not a key coalition contract, but how to satisfy coalition partners in order to be silent and satisfied and, at the same time, through the coalition agreement, through the will of coalition partners to achieve the main objective of the SDS party, this is a project of another republic. That's why even from coalition partners you can hear that it's not what's written in the coalition contract, it's what's going on outside the coalition contract. In this context, I would like to mention why I no longer wanted to participate in the SDS governments, even though the position of Vice-President of the Government was offered to me as the party's president, if they were in the coalition. Let me first mention Patria's case, because the SDS party has been constantly undermining my responsibility for this matter. It's true, in good faith, that everything is fine, I signed this contract. Later in court proceedings, I learned from the various documents and hearings that things were happening in the background of these cases, which would not have led to the signing of this treaty today. In a court of law, I have proved my innocence, both in the first and second stages. Despite the court's legal judgment that I have faithfully done my job, I still listen to SDS's findings that I am guilty only because I signed this contract. I'm sure I'll listen to these things today, too. It is interesting, however, that for example, the role of the President of the Government for a bad agreement, signed in Mokricah, regarding the foreign exchange deposits of the former Ljubljanska banka, is not problematic. There are still legal proceedings against the former Ljubljana Bank in Croatia today, and we are still paying the Croatian budget for the high amounts exhausted. Has anyone taken responsibility? Nobody. We do know, however, that this agreement has been designed to put an end to all lawsuits in Croatia and to settle with Slovenia. Let me also touch on the arbitral decisions establishing the border between Slovenia and Croatia. Everything since the referendum, the people's decision, has been made, we can see that the SDS and, unfortunately, Nova Slovenija have consistently reduced this democratic decision, if it is not the right solution, that even the final arbitration decision is bad, it does not offer those solutions. Of course, it is also not right for you to be able to resolve this arbitration despite the unacceptable communication of the arbitrator and the authorising officer. We know that I have listened all the time to the impression that I should have encouraged this communication myself, of course the competent authorities in the National Assembly have not found this because it was also not true, and I think the arbitrator has honestly said how this communication occurred. Now that an arbitral decision could be reached, we see that you sent the Foreign Minister to talk to Trst, where there was also a Croatian foreign minister and an Italian foreign minister, but we have seen that he was merely immotonating this event. Since then, we have seen that the Croatian Parliament has already declared exclusively the economic zone on the Adriatic, and we can only hope that your quiet diplomacy will not result because I have always heard that I have too long a language, even when I was the Foreign Minister, when I warned that we could be without access to the open sea. I hope that there will not be this silent diplomacy and its result simply by staying silent and without access to the open sea. I hope that doesn't happen. Dear Members and Members! I wonder how we will preside over the Council of the European Union in a few months. This concern is not only my concern, but unfortunately it is also expressed in Brussels. The Foreign Minister must explain that Slovenia does not belong to a group of countries having problems with the rule of law. I hope that you are aware in this National Assembly of the difficulties this may cause in the Presidency of the European Union. I wonder how the agreements in the European Trio will take place – Germany, Portugal and Slovenia – in particular with Portugal, which is planning a series of political and legislative steps to combat hate speech and also with regard to radicalisation processes through social networks. The Portuguese Government directly links this content with the issue of democracy. Or how should we seriously address the green plan and debate on the future of Europe if the President of the Government among his client confidants has climate change detractors. In the world, he strongly reflected the tweet by which the current President of the newly elected President of the United States referred to him as a weak president and thus wished for a general surprise with a completely non-diplomatic and tactless move. We can only ask ourselves how long it will take to recover the consequences of this reckless tweet. Probably this tweet does not contribute to increasing the reputation of Slovenia in the international space. But we can see from American experience what a policy of constant truth-making, media contempt, constant claim of stolen elections can do. We could all monitor what happened at the temple of democracy in Washington. Dear Members and Members! I hope you are aware that the policy of this government is leading Slovenia into a society of countries with which we have never seen eye to eye and which have different values. That is why I want you to give me the support I need today and thus allow me to form a new government that will complete a regular mandate and bring our country back to normal. I am running for office because I believe that I can successfully connect the Coalition of the Constitutional Lok with my knowledge and experience and that we can at the same time connect all the social forces that reject authoritarian aspirations of government in Slovenia and that will lead Slovenia forward, not in the times that we hope will never return. Allow me now to present a little more systematically those programming priorities around which the List of Marjan Šarca, Social Democrats, Left, Alenka Bratušek and Desus have reached an agreement and at the same time made a commitment to achieve them together. Our program is based on four pillars. We must build all four pillars equally. The four pillars of our programme are therefore health, solidarity, the environment and development. The first pillar — health. In health, it is not only about winning the epidemic and recovering from it, but it is about financial and organisational stabilisation of the public health system. A truly effective response to the covid-19 crisis means: firstly, increased capacity for emergency patients, both by number of beds and personnel and by technical equipment, as we still do not know what we can expect from the third wave; an effective reduction programme for lagging behind and waiting types and the normal functioning of all other public health and third time; a more appropriate award for health workers, in accordance with Article 11, point 39 of the Public Sector Collective Treaty. For all three priorities, we will mobilise EU funds under the recovery programme and the multi-annual financial framework, which makes it possible to be significantly more ambitious. In addition, we will financially strengthen the public health system by increasing the total public health funding by 3% of GDP by 2025. We will abolish supplementary health insurance and transfer it to compulsory health insurance. Second pillar – solidarity. The issue of solidarity is about ensuring the future for all generations. In this way, I can announce the Long-Term Care Act, the adoption of the Housing Law and the establishment of the Housing and Supply Infrastructure Fund, free urban transport for pensioners, a demographic fund for real pension fund financing, not for state property mixing, support to municipalities for the construction of kindergartens and schools for greater inclusion of children. The third pillar – the environment. In order to be able to draw on European funds for green and digital transformation, we plan the following measures: the Climate Policy Act, which will legislate the carbon neutrality target by 2050 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2030. We need to implement a constitutional decision on the right to clean drinking water through the adoption of laws and regulations. By raising standards for co-incinerators and banning fracking, we will better protect the environment and human health. In order to better mobilise the EU's funding under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 and the recovery programmes 2020-2023, we will respect the priorities outlined above significantly better than the current government. Pillar Four — Development. Our alternative program is development-oriented. By 2025, the R & D budget will gradually increase by one percent of GDP. We will adopt the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation and establish a technology agency, simplify business operations and ensure more efficient bureaucracy. We will increase the funds for culture to at least 2.5 percent of the budget. We will not despise and insult the creators in culture, but promote high-quality creativity, take care of self-employed people and accelerate cultural infrastructure projects. Professional competences and references will be again crucial for the management of institutions. We will restore professional independence to the expert commissions for programming and project calls and restore dialogue with civil society. Finally, we will reshape the strategic priorities of foreign policy to build again on multilateral cooperation and solidarity and alliances with the founding members of the European Union, which insist on the rule of law, respect for human rights, media freedom. We will take care of the interests of citizens of Slovenia and Slovenian minorities around the world, as well as consistently respect the constitutional rights guaranteed to national minorities in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, for these values and for such a vision, I ask you for your confidence. We will not be able to do anything on our own unless we are open to the best around us – in scientific circles, in research circles, in the economy, in public administration, in civil society in the country – and our fellow citizens abroad. The epidemic has taught us painfully how much we depend on citizens and citizens who are careful and committed to their work, which is often overlooked or even, in recent times, criticised. The epidemic has taught us the fate of public systems such as health care and education. The epidemic has taught us how much our young people want mutual association and contacts, knowledge, education and the development of their talents. And the epidemic has also taught us how the country works if it is governed by decisions that are unfriendly to people. Unfriendly government decisions, some not even declared in accordance with the Constitution and the law, force people to make difficult decisions and hardships, or to adapt to new realities or to remain silent, to persevere or to despair. This dilemma, which unfortunately faces our citizens and citizens daily, can be brought to an end by you, honourable Members and Members. I am sure that you will be rewarded in public with a great degree of approval for such a decision. This dilemma must have been the dilemma of coalition partners many times. I understand the perplexity of the President of the Modern Centre of Minister Zdravko Pozvalska, who may have recently believed that within the coalition he could prevent certain unilateral actions of the President of the Government, but events in recent weeks prove that the President of the Government is putting the Modern Centre Party in a completely subordinate position. Let me remind you of just a few examples. The relevant report of the Ministry of Justice on the state of justice was supplemented before sending to Brussels without the conduct of the Minister of Justice by the Foreign Minister, assessing that the situation is different from what the competent justice ministry reports. The Commissioner-in-Office of the European Commission may have been surprised by this unusualness, since he is very well aware of the situation in Slovenia, and he was, last but not least, the Belgian Commissioner for seven or more years of foreign minister, he was also in Slovenia several times. Something similar happened with a letter from the Prime Minister addressed to Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen about allegedly stolen parliamentary elections in Slovenia, which also flew directly to the great victory of the Modern Centre Party in 2014, then under the name of the Mir Cerar Party. When two Commissioners, both members of the ALDE, turned to the Slovenian government about the STA, the Prime Minister of the Government restored the tweet of Vaneta Gošnik that it was not the European Commission, but only two women. Finally, the President of the Government illustrated his coalition partner, the Modern Centre Party, with the recent ultimatum of the Minister of Education for the immediate replacement of the Secretary of State for his disobedience. All these cases unfortunately confirm me when I say that no one will stop the President of the Government from his unilateral policy and that the Modern Centre Party will not be able to do so, so also the Desus party does not want to participate in such a coalition. Dear Members and Members, you will lose nothing if you trust me with your voice and much will be gained by Slovenia. I promise you that the new government will complete its regular mandate and that we will take Slovenia together on a normal path. I am sure that you are expected not only by those citizens who have entrusted you with the voice, but also by all the citizens who did not participate in the last parliamentary elections because they did not expect policy to influence their everyday lives. In the end, I would like to say to all of you, citizens and citizens, that I assure you that I will lead a different policy than the current Prime Minister. Our policy will be open and inclusive. I am willing to make available all my knowledge, experience and energy for your well-being. I have absolutely no political calculations, but a clear picture and a sincere desire to put a stop to this wrong policy taken together by the current government. Once again, today you are not deciding whether Karl Viktor Erjavec will be a mandate holder or he will form a government; today we are deciding which country we want and most citizens want a different country. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the President of the Government, Janez Ivan Janša, to respond, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 254 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to the proposal for the appointment of a new Prime Minister of the Government and to explain his views on the work of the Government so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear High Council! Of course, what we have today or what you have on your agenda today is not a constructive mistrust because at least 46 votes are needed. The Slovenian Constitution therefore gives this instrument because it does not cause political instability in the country and that if one government loses the majority, it means that the opposition has a majority and becomes a new ruling coalition, it gathers enough votes, changes government and work and lives to go on. You have invested this instrument with ten signatures, so of course it is not a constructive non-trust, but a destructive farce. In the text you have presented, as well as in what the applicant and candidate for a mandate holder have said so far, 5 per cent of what is supposed to be a programme and 25 per cent of criticism, beautiful desires, as well as a series of lies and manipulations. Even these percentages of listing what they would do if they had a government, it sounds rather comical. At the beginning of your term of office, even though you did not win the election, you had a government for a year and a half. There were a lot more of you in that coalition, and there wasn't any of it. But now all of a sudden it will be? From where? Of course, I do not need to mention what our government has done in a very short time and in extremely difficult conditions of the epidemic. Slovenian citizens and citizens know this and feel it in their pockets. Workers, pensioners, students, families, no one was forgotten at this time. We've saved hundreds of thousands of jobs. In the eight anti-Korona packages, mainly you voted against all or at least not supported them, this government for Slovenians and Slovenians has adopted and implemented significantly more measures for Slovenian citizens in a single year, significantly more measures than you in a year and a half at the beginning of this parliamentary mandate. However, if I add up all eight anti-Korona packages and compare them with the previous ten years, of these eight packages, there are significantly more measures, significantly more concrete things that make people live better, more in their pockets, better prospects for the future than what you have adopted in 10 years before. In what you wrote down, the speech was less about this today, there is a considerable insult to Slovenian health care about the covidal dead or because of it. Here is an international comparison that shows what percentage of those infected with covidus — each too many — but this comparison shows what percentage of those infected with covidus actually died. Despite all the problems in Slovenian health care that did not arise overnight, the percentage of covid deaths due to the number of people infected in Slovenia is better than in some of the core countries of the European Union. You have it online, and you can look directly at it. It is true, however, that in Slovenia, in the second wave, we had a large number of infected people, as a result of which we also had a large number of excess deaths in relation to previous years and we have to ask why. The reason is that Slovenia has the eighth oldest population in the world. Covid collects taxes mainly between the elderly and the oldest and it is necessary to ask what we have done to improve the demographic picture in 30 years of a single country. That's the first reason. The second reason is that we do not have enough homes for the elderly in Slovenia and that in many of those – and unfortunately, the death tax was the highest – which we have is the bad standard. Work red zones in a nursing home in Hrastnik or elsewhere, where in normal conditions people who are there do not have enough room! Let's look at some data for the last 10 years on what we've been investing in. In the last 10 years until 2019, the Slovenian Democratic Party was one year in government, the Social Democrats for 9 years, and Viktor Karl Erjavec was nine years in government. Look, all this time, there were investments in hospitals, primary and secondary schools, training institutions, student and student homes, colleges, in ten years, 713 million euros. At that time, let's say, it went from our pockets to a billion euros in public broadcasting, more than for all of that together. Because of me, we can give two billion euros for public broadcasting, but when we can give 10 billion for all these other needs, not when we can give less. That was your policy for 10 years, so people died, so 10,000 people are waiting for beds in nursing homes. Let us look ahead if we are talking only about nursing homes now. Student homes. See, homes for older people are investments, real construction, adaptation, renovation in 10 years – 25 million euros. Student homes, new buildings, investment maintenance – €31 million. Only for NGOs based on Metelkova 6, at this time – €37 million. Those were your priorities. That's why people died. Give me one national achievement of a single NGO at the title of Metelkova 6, which you remember. Does anyone know who that is? Yes, the spread of the virus last year across the country, that was, of course, the defamation of the facades of ministries, and the threat of death, those were the achievements. The eight oldest population in the world in the last 10 years, parental allowance, child support, large family allowance, child care allowance – 367 million. Funding for NGOs at the same time of ten years – 706 million, more than once more. And then fight the epidemic in such a situation! So you have to look at the numbers a little bit. What I missed earlier at Mr Golubovic's performance, which, by the way, described the behavior of himself and his client, there was no number. In the nomination for a term of office – no numbers, nothing. Some phrases, something like that, we're gonna play football, we're gonna kick a ball, and it's gonna roll because it's round. It was this program, nothing concrete. And it's full of talking about how this government violates human rights, does another republic, and so on. Look, we're not doing another Republic, we're defending the first Republic, we're defending the first Republic, because you're destroying it with this kind of policy that's expressed in numbers that we used to represent. When there is so much talk about democracy, it is an index of democracy in Slovenia at the time of individual governments. Every time I led the government, we were higher than when candidates from your clients ran the government. And now we have before us a proposal for a mandate-holder on behalf of the President of the Party, who of all the Presidents of the parties in this coalition of five parties received the least votes. Even earlier, he had run for office in 2018 as minister, as a minister, I do not know, 13 years in a row. In the constituency of Tržič, he received 380 votes, less than 400. Our colleague, Jura Ferrjan, who is sitting here running as a rookie, is the youngest member of the National Assembly, has received five times more votes. However, because he is a novice, probably because he may not have received the most votes in the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group is discussing whether to propose him as president or vice-president of the Commission. Someone who won five times less votes and trusts the electorate will lead the government. And this government will have tremendous confidence and democracy will flourish! And relations with the United States will suddenly improve. When the government will be led by someone who was 13 years old minister and went to Moscow 13 times in ten years and never to Washington. It's gonna be great, really! Look, I'm still suggesting we get real. Ask yourself how many new jobs will be created due to today’s session – see, none. Ask yourself, ‘ How many more people are we going to be vaccinated against a covid for today’s session — none. Ask yourself how you will be with today’s session – and we are supposed to be on the outside of the market, with illegal protests again – how you will help to stop the epidemic. By no means, vice versa, you'll spread it even more! Let us ask ourselves how much wages and pensions will increase today’s session — nothing at all. As a result of this meeting, the College is late today, we are preparing two regular sessions for the week now. My colleagues and colleagues from the government are working, but they're not burdening themselves with this farce, but there's still a stalemate. So, my dears from KUL, you're wasting time and money on taxpayers, and I must say, unfortunately, that's the only thing you're masters in, which has been proven many times. If there's no misunderstanding, let's do it again. In the last ten years, you've spent more money on your paramilitary army with Metelkova and Roga than on nursing homes and student homes together. The biggest achievement of these hundreds of millions of euros is street screaming and the crackdown on the facades of the Ministry of Culture on death threats, which are the highest level of hate speech. The threat of death is the highest level of hate speech; none of you have condemned it, but you do even repeat it from the sentient benches. Some. As far as the results are concerned. Look, as far as I'm concerned, as far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, you can vote no confidence. The Slovenian Democratic Party is ready for elections as it has never been before. As far as the epidemic is concerned, I don't think much will change. Unlike one year ago, the warehouses are full. Masks that are supposed to be useless are on your faces – thank you very much. You obviously don't believe what Mr. Golubovic said. The government is operational, and the opposition, more than it is now, cannot do so in an election campaign. We'll just count each other again, no problem. I doubt it'll make things any better. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party also insists, and we also feel responsible for our coalition partners. We also suggest to those who are wasting valuable time here today to take a little look at yourself. Tomorrow's a new day. Next week is, as far as I know, a conversation with the President of the Republic. He invites all parliamentary parties at the table to participate, regardless of the differences between us, in certain matters where these differences should not be because of our common interest. I think it's time for those of you who have rejected this well-intentioned invitation to reconsider. As far as the government is concerned, it will always be prepared to cooperate, for the common good. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The first word is the letter from the Group of Ambassadors, Marjan Šarc. My colleague, Marjan Sarec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members! The coalition will work for the welfare of Slovenia. This was the first promise made by the current government or its president. If it was barren, it was clear at the time, and today it is only even more obvious. For the reality is quite the opposite: the government works for its own well-being. The defender of the rule of law and democracy, which was another promise, unfortunately became more than the gravedigger of both, after most of the silence. The interests of the country, which you say you put first, had to withdraw to the interest of a handful, and this few chosen today challenge the submission of a constructive mistrust. You say the country is in extremely difficult circumstances. It's true, but you, your esteemed Government, you have placed it largely in these difficult circumstances. You've created them to a large extent. You have ignored preparations for a completely anticipated second wave with a fairly successful fight against the first wave of the epidemic, and then you have taken largely inadequate and repressive measures, and we are paying this today with more than 3,000 900 dead – that there will be no obvious figures. No one prevented you from preparing homes for the elderly and hospitals for an epidemic. No one has interfered with your timely purchase of quick tests, nor has it forced these bad ones on you. Neither has anyone dictated to you incomplete anti-Korona packages or encouraged you articles on repression, privatization of health care, supervision of citizens. You chose this path, the path of the one mind. Neither did anyone maliciously turn your laws into invalids, wipe out emergency solutions, tease you. You knew the suggestions of the interested public. You had our help. We have warned of the shortcomings, the missing groups of people, the disabled, and the weaknesses. We've proposed repairs, but you've self-indulgently rejected them. You had all our help. In fact, you had our help before you took over the government: a joint press conference, a meeting of outgoing and incoming ministers, and not least, our actions, which proved to be correct at a given time – for example, an immediate ban on visits to the DSOs, a ban on events, border controls and could also list, not least, an epidemic announcement. In return, just before your arrest, you announced that you were going to accuse me, talk about how shitty we are, and your portals wrote about how Nina Pirnat and I had taken Slovenia to ruin. Then a famous report was sent to the DZ, where you have already condemned us, in advance, for all the bad things in Slovenia, but time is the judge of its kind, and today it all turns out bizarre that I do not use another term. We've all given you peace when you've been sitting in crisis headquarters, but only until the moment we figure out what you're doing. No one has ever enforced decrees and orders on you either: curfews, closures in regions and municipalities. Only you yourself have created confusion with a completely reckless stop to public life. The profession silenced and retreated to the government's speaker and the loudest of ministers. Penalties, threats, drunkenness — enjoy as long as you can! Stopping children and adults, screaming after control, repression: you can't, forbidden, guilty, fine. All these measures are exclusively your decision and are your responsibility, so take it. I can't, and I can't say that all your actions are bad, but unfortunately, you've broken and devalued the good with your confused and inappropriate communication. To prescribe something for the citizens and deepen it, but you do the same thing yourself, and I don't mention it. Of course, the punishment is not because you are first-class. Let us ask ourselves what this government has done well for the promised welfare of Slovenia and its people. You advertise state interventionism, but the criteria are set out so that aid is often unattainable, your defeats and consciences, if you still have it, soften with forms of one-off assistance to different groups of the population, but these are — and you know it — only some kind of ransom for everyone who is delayed, imported, unobstructed. Money is not and can't be a comfort for the consequences of government summer carelessness, for its populism and stagnation. There is no excuse for the number of people who died in the world summit. The destructive action of the opposition is another in a series of observations that we have been able to read these days. Given the situation, I would allow myself to estimate that the government is the one that acts as destructive. We listen to calls that we must focus all our energy on efforts to contain the epidemic – why are you waiting and what are you waiting for? Then there are accusations that during the epidemic it is irresponsible to overthrow the government if we have a health, economic, psychological crisis. It's the other way around! It is precisely because of an epidemic that the Government does not know or does not want to plague, that the constructive non-trust is responsible and precisely because of the crisis that the Government understands as an alibi for its own survival that the exchange is necessary. It would be unacceptable and unjustifiable if the opposition remained calm. It would be unforgivable if I hadn't acted. It would be equally guilty if this policy of destroying the country, democracy, institutions and not the last possible future. The silence would mean consent. In case we have any doubts, it's enough to think about what it would be like if the situation were reversed and you were in opposition. Interpellations would have been more than ministerial cities. No doubt we'd have a constitutional charge on the table. There is no need to speak about calling again and again committees to count the dead and to see the late action that you have done in the spring of 2020. However, we would also have many complaints, addresses, and articles on your numerous portals, and I would rather not guess, since they would certainly not be too tasty. Last but not least, we have seen you act in the opposition in the past, but only the human memory has the property that is short, so, dear Government, your crying is how the opposition is ugly and rude, politely said, grotesque. Thank God you have such opposition, which, unlike you, still has concerns and reservations! But regardless of today's outcome, that's going to change. Epidemic is not a cover for excess areas. While the current government understands it in this very light under the cloak of extraordinary circumstances, which it first leaned on and then created the stage, frontal accounts with all systems and subsystems are being handled. Initial exchanges have gradually turned into human brutalism with a single objective, and this is the subordination of institutions and state companies. They were targets, and they're all still different thinkers, discipline is a mode of surgery. It requires nods, favors, blind tracking, minds. At the same time, the prosecutor is a judge, both in one and the same person. Everyone with concerns, criticism, separate opinions, doubts is on the sad bench. In response, he gets ridicule, mucking, pompousness, or loss of function. Knowledge is not a priority, perhaps because ignorance leads to loyalty, not an opinion of submission. The agenda is clear, namely to achieve the erosion of democracy and the rule of law and the eclipse of media freedom. And last but not least, what kind of government is responsible for its failure to control the epidemic, it assigns its defeat to everyone, just to itself, not even a little. What is a government that can't handle any self-criticism or self-reflection? The Council is not a conspiracy, nor is Slovenia. You had every chance. You had a government with a decent majority. You have the State Council on your side. You have the President of the Republic on your side. You had an opposition that had not yet used all the tools or everything you would have used if the roles had been reversed. There's no conspiracy. It is only our legitimate right, even our duty to stop the destruction of the country. Last but not least, the media that you like to paint as Satan, at the beginning of your reign, very correctly took your actions. By the time they found out that the emperor was naked and that you were actually on the one hand fighting the virus, and on the other hand you were going to revolutionize society. The more attention you pay, the more clear it is now. The last farce with university admissions would be a condition in a normal country for the government to leave. So far, it's becoming incomprehensible to be a new norm, and that's wrong. It's been downhill since the term of office, now lower than zero. This country and its people deserve more and better. They deserve respect, respect and a sense of value, they deserve dignity and optimism, they deserve to stop Darwinism in nursing homes, clear rules, incentives instead of threats. They deserve a government that respects what it imposes on people; a government without gloominess, corruption practices, violations of laws, intimidation, nagging of hoodlums, beating of NGOs, arranging calls, pressure on media independence. To get the same parties back together, it's obvious. Yeah, there you go. Almost the same. But with experience, wiser, especially with an approach different from yours. Let me add a look at the estimates that the failure of a constructive distrust will be a defeat. Don't hold it! The defeat is here. We watch it every day. That government is a failure. For democracy, for children, students and students. For the elderly in homes, for the rule of law, for the police and independent institutions, for people tired of pandemics and threats. For social dialogue. The country has been defeated in many ways. To be a failure to defeat the opposition — by no means! It would be a defeat to watch the decommissioning of the country. It would be a defeat not to act and sedition to wait for elections. I'd be defeating your official arrogance. It's a defeat because some people allow it. We all have a choice. We still have it. And in our client, we will support the infidelity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Mr Erjavec, colleagues and colleagues! Today, on purpose, valued citizens and valued citizens, the address is addressed to you; to you who have been paying disproportionately high epidemic accounts in recent months or throughout the year, of course, with additional interest paid by the Government and also by politics as a whole. And don't mind, Members and Members of the Government, that you won't be talked out at all on my behalf. Much, much too much has been done here in the National Assembly of Words, who is better, who is worse, who has better ideas, instead of doing what may be hardest, but only right: to talk people out of this phone booth. Now is the time, if not the time. Yes, exactly to the people, my dears, we are obliged to explain why we are here today and what our reasons are for not supporting the current government, or for the fact that the current government has done everything necessary in the fight against the epidemic. I am sure that we all know the answer to these two questions in this space, and the difference between us is that we say one thing out loud, what is really wrong, we draw this out of real life, and the other one is blind or silent. Whatever we say today, confirm either the first or the second thesis, that is, whether the government has done bad or good, unfortunately the facts outside these walls will remain as they are. The lives of our people will be equally difficult, the consequences of the crisis will be equally burdensome, and we will probably have a long tapegram of everything we say for our debate. Then there will be some statements in the evening report and, of course, I stress for people, a bitter taste in politics. I just wish there would be as little lies as possible in the magnetogram as possible, especially some hate speech that won't happen. Because whether there will be more than or less than 46 votes for a constructive non-truster, our people will have to continue to face the difficult situation of the epidemic, probably long after the end of this mandate, when these governments or the next government will no longer be. Therefore, my fellow citizens and citizens, do not allow anyone in this Chamber to continue to argue with you or, in any other way, send the intelligence behind when this epidemic will be over. Unfortunately, no one has any answers to this question, nor do the Government or Members of Parliament, although I would like all these answers to be known. All of us – I'm talking about everyone, not just politicians – can only rely on trends and daily numbers of the newly infected and the signals coming from a wider international environment. So don't even let any of you, like dry gold, sell you a vision of what the future will be for us because of the epidemic. The numbers are clear, but we can hope that this future will be much better than it shows today. We know and realize, however, that this future is uncertain, accompanied by the great question of when will we be able to fully revive and begin to remedy the damage to all the decisions that this government has made, and then lay more solid foundations for our society and for the countries that will be more vulnerable to shocks of all kinds. In politics or in the government’s greatest part, however, it is the government’s responsibility to intercept these shocks and try to mitigate them. And the main reason why we are today in the debate about constructive distrust or, rather, at the point of the greatest mistrust in the current government is simple. Unfortunately, the current government has somehow lost its battle to manage this epidemic; even more, it seems that the current government has used this epidemic as a tool for its survival. Where there is a reason, the government itself will probably know best. Your Honor! Therefore, the submission of a constructive non-trust requires a clear explanation from us, the opposition. At least as far as the Social Democrats are concerned, it is not a political manoeuvre, but however you want to explain, to dictate to the current government or its demolition at a time when the highest level of responsibility is expected from politics. And that: precisely because of the highest degree of political responsibility, especially the responsibility towards you, respected citizens and citizens, this lack of confidence has also been created to offer better answers and different management of the country in these difficult times of the epidemic and in times of extreme, if not the greatest, mistrust of people in politics at all in our history of independent Slovenia. Is the government on the people's side? Does the government work for people? Has the government helped solve the consequences of the crisis? These questions led us to this day. Unfortunately, the answers for us are not yes. They were listed in the chapter of countless slips, mistakes, and even some illogical moves made by the current government. I know, often from the political messages of us, the opposition, we hear hard-to-understand statements about the breakdown of constitutional regulation, the emergence of democratic values, the grave government interference with the independence of the institution, its subordination of autonomous systems, the failures of the government and ministers. It is self-critical to be very good, and in the opposition we may not know or be able to present things as they are, real and lifelike. Noting that our citizens and our citizens do not read the Constitution and the laws every day, do not deepen in the principles of independence and autonomy of institutions, they are not called upon to do so, simply to deal with what the Government should do this year and not to do so. Citizens and citizens, please don't understand my mistakes that the thought I just said is somehow underestimating if people don't understand. It is that all these words do not tell what is actually happening in this country. But we all know and feel that unacceptable things are happening. We've come so far as to run our country on Twitter. We're kind of becoming Twitter states. We came even further when the government representatives decided to put people in the congregation, the regions, and in their four - month home schooling, they will send you with obvious evidence, since you did not follow the rules, and we will have a little extra privileges for you. Because of all the sobs, accusations and verbal accounting of our top government representatives with people by Twitter, facebooks and other social networks, every day, I admit, a little fear, but more and more shame. It's a shame all the politics got so messed up. It is a shame that, at the age of 30, this beautiful country of ours came to the point when the discrediting of individuals and groups of people and the lynching of social networks became essentially a constant. And that's not good for politics. Everything else is left to improvisation day. The government and government representatives are allowed everything and even more or are allowed only what they need at a given time — meetings at inn, borders, and so on, so that they do not mention it because it would be too much. However, citizens and citizens pay 400 euros or more for misinterpreting or violating decisions because, unfortunately, they ate croissants on the street, had coffee while going to work, went across the municipal border without a written certificate. We have a situation, my dears, when children go to the streets after more than three months of schooling at home and the government in tears say they can no longer stand to want to go to school, but in the government's eyes are just a tool for misunderstood parents; even more, according to her assessment, they are part of the strategy of political accounting with it. Guests, merchants, cosmetics, hairdressers, auto mechanics, even a small economy, and daily he looks at the Twitter accounts of government representatives with fear and wonders whether they can work tomorrow, how they will work, under what conditions they will work and what new nonsense are again, if I may say so. That's what this is about! Let's not invent, respectable, warm water. The government, with its decisions, has unfortunately led people to the brink of endurance. That's the reality. Perhaps someone is successful at times in their actions, in their bizarreness, and most of them are long gone. I say this on my own as a citizen and also on behalf of my client and many acquaintances and random interlocutors. And believe me, because you know me, many of them are on the so-called right side. Many of these have so far been elected by one of the current coalition parties and simply ask themselves, on behalf of whom and with what right does the Government do all that it does. Why do some have the right to make empty excuses, while others simply do not have these options and are punished with bills? Our people, our citizens and our citizens are also doing what the Government and all the politics like to do when this debate is under way for 10 hours. Yes, at the moment the self-sacrificing health workers continue to fight for the lives of patients employed in nursing homes for the dignity of our elderly, teachers and teachers, from now on, children in primary schools. My dears, there have been too many words. Respected citizens and citizens, both themselves and our party, would rather see and be at peace if they knew that we had a government that wants to, who wants to, who can do whatever it takes to deal with the epidemic and its consequences as soon as possible. And the worst part is that it's the right, the middle, the green, the rainbow, any government, because it's long gone, at least in my case, what the government is, but it's basically simple for our people. All the rest are blisters and when the bubbles remain, when some bubbles fall away, there remain only facts, and the fact is that today there is a test before us, Members and Members of Parliament, whether we will follow these facts or continue to be blinded before these facts. A constructive non-trust has 12 votes in favour of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Karl Erjavec, colleagues and colleagues! Three decades ago, Slovenia celebrated the historic decision at the referendum. The Slovenian people were preparing for important steps towards the formation of an independent state. There was an increase in optimism in people. The atmosphere was uncertain in spite of a united and full of hope. At that time, we were fortunate enough to find people in key positions in the emerging country who could trust them to make decisions that would be right for everyone. The operational part of the process of self-sustainment was in the hands of those people who were able to operate in crisis situations and who had mastered enough ingenuity to find a way out of difficult situations, and political decisions were in the hands of people who had gained human latitude and did not need advisers to know what to do or tell them. 30 years ago, as a nation, we were united, we had the courage, but we were lucky; we were lucky that we were led by wise and responsible leaders, so at that time it was justified or with nostalgia and all together – we, as we are part of today's political space, like all the Slovenian public – expect to return to the ideal of cooperation, as we remember it from 30 years ago. Where and when did we get rid of the desire for cooperation in politics is the debate that is still valid today. However, it is right to find that we were able to cooperate by taking the suns from all sides of the political space: from the right, which has fallen into the charge, from the left, which has been too busy with power and too little with good ideas, and from the middle, which again, when we can get closer, departs. You wonder why such an introduction to the position of the SMC Group. When the Modern Centre Party entered Parliament almost seven years ago with a record 36 mandates, it naively hoped that a political culture that had not been built on Twitter, which did not feed on painful responses to social networks and which did not seek comfort in one-minded balloons, but was based on respectful non-aggressive dialogue and networking, on substantive grounds, would restore the necessary trust and tolerance to the political space. From today's point of view, we succeeded without excessive turbulence and instability, but the impact of our efforts was replaced by the end of the mandate. Comparing the period at that time with what we look at in it is like comparing screaming and human intelligence with the broadcast of the New Year’s Concert of the Vienna Philharmonics. With exercise we have let go of all the bad qualities and habits that make politics increasingly less visible, and from the point of dialogue they create a space of excessive struggle for attention. And it should be the other way around. Each of us has to ask how much he has contributed to the fact that politicians prefer to be seen in the eyes of our citizens in the reflection given to the imaginary worlds of social and media networks, and how much does everyone do to make it different and to push the country to where it belongs; to a peaceful future, to an atmosphere where we have the right to think differently and to learn to say it in a way that no one is offended and does not hurt anyone. To think that this right to freedom of speech binds responsibility is a framework that has grown to extremes in recent years. Any concept of the rule of law postulates is also unacceptable because it dangerously narrows the space for quality public dialogue and the weighing of arguments. This has proved to be a boomerang several times in the case of the current government. Last March, when she took over the leadership of the country, she had an unappreciative and difficult task. She shared the fate of all governments in Europe and around the world. The pandemic was then one big question and no one knew the answer to it. For the Slovenian public, the unbiased unobjectiveness when it comes to assessing what we are doing ourselves and comparing what others can do, unfortunately, has also proved to be true in the event of a government confrontation with the epidemic. The same measure, when it came to us, was assessed in the course of a liquid search for hair in the egg, when it came to our neighbors, and we spoke of it as an unprecedented achievement. Government efforts, measures taken, responses to the needs of the most vulnerable groups of people, the constant search for a balance between health and education expectations, the economy and other key state systems have not always been assessed by a just vat. On the contrary! We were only looking for faults and flaws. Of course they were. It was also a tireless effort that resulted in a number of measures that helped to overcome the difficult moments of crisis for employees, parents, young people, farmers, families, pensioners, social workers, students, entrepreneurs, athletes, firefighters, civil protection members, societies, culturers, self-employed persons, tourism, carriers, health and social workers and many others. This government responded to the pandemic in a similar way to other countries. With restrictions that ensure the sustainability of the health system and really costly financial interventions to help people and vital systems. If any other government were in a position, the emphasis in the measures might be different, but without all of us being hurt most, without restrictions on social contacts, without control of the infected, without a strict interpretation of some of the key decisions in controlling the epidemic would simply not be. The government's confrontation with her has been replaced at some critical points in advance due to the problems of decades of age. And if we could talk about our experience from last March's experience today in a way that compares and weighs arguments rather than mere impressions and feelings, we would be talking about something completely different today. We would like to talk about what someone can do to bridge the deep crisis that has been brought to us by a health hazard. Unfortunately, the epidemic has not brought us together as a nation, despite the fact that we have been following up on extraordinary stories of self-sacrifice. And its outage, whenever it is, will not inhabit us the feeling that we have given away everything that we as a nation have been able to do. He's going to get the impression that we've failed our maturity exam. That one of them found an opportunity to strengthen their own strength, the other to account with the past, and the third to return to their former positions. Those positions which, due to their own political calculus and curiosity from public opinion polls, have themselves been abandoned, and in the meantime they have been bitterly looking for names for new ministers and new ministers. It is difficult to work under circumstances that in advance destroy such a great and well - intentioned effort. Maintain patience and focus as well. However, politics is not a place of some meditative calm and under pressure we need to be able to act. However, we also need to be aware of the situation created by the KUL Coalition with the announcement of a constructive non-trust to the government. The story began in early October and will receive one of the epilogues today. The vote, which will conclude the debate, will not close any important issue and will not make it easier for us to work, live and co-exist in the coming months, nor will it have years. The outcome will not be reassuring for anyone, but some will look for new and new reasons for the accounts. The decision of the Modern Centre Party concerning the candidate for the mandate of Mr Erjavac is well known and would not repeat it. I would like it to be expressed in a way that is inherent and inseparable to this assembly and to the idea of parliamentary democracy. So with a clear expression of will on the ballots. But we all have to give ourselves another chance to do what our famous cousin Boris Pahor said to Europe years ago, that it is in such a squabbling state that we have no other solution than dialogue. Slovenia needs a respectful, truthful and mature dialogue with those who understand us and those who oppose us even more. This is the only way that we will be able to rebuild the country, return from the stagnation phase to the regrowth phase so that we can actually succeed. This would be the best gift for the citizens of the year in which we have stepped and will not be easy. We would like to give an example of how the difference is made in spite of living together and working together. In the SMC, we try to make sure that many of the accumulated problems that have been crowded into the drawers for years are firmly placed in place. More equitable development, relaunching the economy, research, innovation, strengthening digital knowledge, living quarters for older people, comprehensive use of cannabis, easier access for young people to housing, green tourism; all that Slovenia needs in the years to come to life with fuller lungs. I know that many have expected a different view from our Group Member, but despite this message that we wish to convey today, it is not empty speech. Experience has taught us and has shown us that despite the more imaginative governments, the policies of some of the problems have not been able to get them off the table, and today we are all paying an inappropriately higher price in the face of the crisis. In mature parliamentary democracies, power is not inherited and is not exchanged in principle. For these reasons, the SMC will continue to fight for what is worth fighting for with a peaceful conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Just a moment, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u14	Thank you very much and very much! In the country for 10 months now, the state of emergency has been so much written, so many words have been spoken that today it is difficult to add anything new or new to the untrustworthy, to say anything in the hope that anyone who supports this government and thus makes it possible in the country will change his mind. But now that we have all together, all 90, the historic opportunity to put down the government that caused this situation, I'm going to try again. The main conflict between those who oppose the Government and those that you support, if any, if any, but not the naked interest in maintaining the functions and the seats of the Government, is in understanding the nature of this government. You say it's a normal right government. We in the opposition answer no, we are ruled by the far right hand of the Orbanov and Trumpian type, who is breaking the regime in the country as we have known it for the last 30 years. I'll give you some arguments that clearly show why we're going this way. The first indicator of not living under a government that would be some normal right as it tries to show itself is how much we deal with this government. It is practically not one day that the President of the Government would not be at the top of the daily news, that the main topic would not be the scandal of that or that minister, so that the public would not be tortured by this or that excess of the government. And it's not because of the media, it's the media's job to report on the scandals they're monitoring every day. American writer Fran Lebowitz, currently featured in a popular series, said that the country in which her government should be dealt with, with her regime, is a dictatorship. And with us, as a saying, it doesn't take a day to avoid dealing with the excesses of this government. The hatred that destroys this society shrivels from the top. Slovenia has never been so disunited, so divided, in such chaos that people can't even agree whether the sky is blue or yellow today. As Plato already knew, the chaos that the Government deliberately sows is only a Twitter account of the Prime Minister and the most visible ministers, the grave of democracy and the growing of dictatorship. Slovenia is not yet a dictatorship, but we are in chaos, which is a good way to get there, and this chaos is deliberately caused. The second sign of alarm should be the fact that the rule of law has been suspended. After 30 years, we suddenly woke up in a world where the rules are no longer the same for everyone. If we look only last week: while it is true for all citizens that if you go out now to eat a sandwich, you will get 400 euros in fines, or if you are a guest and open a restaurant, you will be threatened with up to 100,000 euros in fines after the last antikoronic package, some minister may choose to open a restaurant in Prlekia, eat a sandwich there, drink a sandwich, and then say: “Yes, because I only drank water.” Or another example: while the citizens are confined to the municipal borders, a minister drives across a number of municipalities to the Croatian border to take his mother to the sea after they catch him, says he went to check the work of the police of the neighbouring country. See, we live in parallel universes – we have ministers who can afford all who are above the measures, over the decisions, over the laws they make themselves, and we have ordinary citizens who are left with some complete will of authority, some completely arbitrary prohibitions that change for the very first time every day. If I recall when the schools opened, teachers, parents, and students found out about the opening of schools on Tuesday at six o'clock on Monday afternoon. This is the country created by this government. And it's not a normal state, it's a complete suspension of the rule of law and full arbitrariness of power. But do not think that what will disappear when the virus disappears or when we are vaccinated — this is the beginning of the world that this government is taking us to. And the third sign of the alarm is that no one in this government answers anymore. Did anyone answer for the multimillion-dollar purchases of the wrong fans that landed in the basements of the hospitals? Has anyone been in charge of the mask business? Whether someone was responsible for the rapid tests that you bought from those crypto-transmitters, and their results are about as reliable as if I, for a colleague here, had concluded whether or not he had a coronary virus with a coin target. Has anyone been responsible for 3,000,700 excess deaths in the last year? That's about three times what Germany had. Do we even know what we're talking about? Due to the Government, which has taken the virus to tackle it by measures that change from day to day, by intimidation, by repression and by carrying out a social coup. Instead of dealing with the epidemic, we have a few hundred or possibly even a few thousand excess dead. Will anyone be responsible for this? No one, because apparently some of the people are living above the law right now. That's why I'm asking the question of those who say it's a normal right-wing government. Should not the characteristic of a normal right - hand government be the exact responsibility that the right hand preaches all the time? We're dealing with total irresponsibility here. Should it not be characterized by respect for the State and its institutions? What we see around us is undermining everything, leading by constitutional regulation. Should it not be the characteristic of a conservative government of a commitment to the rule of law, meaning basically the same rules for all, but not that we now have a caste living above the law and all the others for whom the rules change every day? Dear Members and Members, the people who currently rule us are not any conservatives, but their purely opposite. It is clear to the domestic and foreign public. Everything I describe is visible and we can all feel in our daily lives. You don't have to be a political analyst to see what I just described. Slovenia is, as recorded on the portal uncensored.si, a patient of Europe. The patient of Europe is not only due to death and covid infection, where we are among the world recorders, but also according to another indicator, after another deformity that occurred last year, but it is very well illustrated or described by a Eurobarometer survey that was the end of last week. Look at this. When asked by the people of European countries whether things seemed to be moving in the wrong direction in the country, 80 percent of Slovenia and Slovenians replied yes. 80% of citizens and citizens are convinced that things are going in the wrong direction! Only 20 percent say it goes right, but there are no undeclared ones. And secondly, when asked how pleased they are with the state of democracy in the country, we have come to the very last place in the EU. It's the last place in the EU! This, MEPs and Members, is the result of the work of this government over the last 10 months. And there's a very good reason for that. The biggest government party for 10 months did not deal with the epidemic, but with the social upheaval. And she wasn't involved in handing out her hands, as the Prime Minister says. She performed exactly as he had previously performed himself: aggressively, aggressively, the saw, pointing to everything around him and he began to talk if you listened carefully to him about civil society as an army of opposition. Do you know where that was copied? That's what Orban says, and that's what Putin says. If you're wondering when you'll be walking next time in Ljubljana, why Ljubljana is, then there are probably Slovenian cities left too – I haven't been there for a long time because I can't move from the congregation – just a bunch of rabbis, because it looks like we're in some state of emergency, like we've become a police state – that's exactly why! Because apparently the Prime Minister of the Government creates enemies everywhere: in the media, in culture, in NGOs, in the opposition. Anyone who doesn't think like him is his opponent. And everyone who doesn't think like him is an army of civil society, and against them must be repressed. That's why Slovenian streets look the way they look today. I don't want them looking like that anymore because I don't want to live in a police state. The other thing is this social upheaval. Look, I said in March that Janez Janša was already in 2012 and even before, acting on that famous Mao's winged, under a lovely sky ruled by chaos, the situation is excellent. And that is exactly how Carl Schmitt acted this time, or as the legal theorist of the Third Reich said, that he would act in such a way that the true holder of sovereignty in the country is not the one who has power under the social contract — that is, the constitution — belongs to us, it is said, the people have power after the constitution, but the real holder of sovereignty is the one who has the power, through the proclamation of extraordinary conditions, to suspend the normal functioning of society and the social contract. We are currently in the suspension of a social contract. We are not here because Janez Janša would be such a brilliant politician, we are here because of those few Members that you allow him most. Untrustworthy, although we have not collected 46 signatures, we have invested in giving you a chance to change your mind and deny it for the most part. If anyone thinks that he will be able to hold him within the coalition today, that he will be able to set limits for him, that he may determine where the SDS will reach and where not, then he should reject his speech today before the vote. You'll see him there exactly the way he'll be from today. If the SMC has left Desus here and there because he was afraid that he would lose your support with the untrustworthy, he showed today because he thinks he has it, how he'll behave from here on out. Attacking, obnoxious, official, arrogant, will push you into a corner, and, as a former NSI member once said, cut you like a salami. This will be your future in this government and only you can stop it today with your voice in the cab. But I've got a bigger problem with that. Look, there are two things that can radically change if this government remains in power until the end of the term of office. The first is media space. This is not where the Prime Minister hides his ambitions. For him are the media from RTV, STA, Dela, Diary and so on only fan of false news, as he himself told them, and I would like to submit these media. What the media will look like if you manage to bring them in, you can see them live if you turn on Novo24. There you will see daily grumbling, lies, teasing, deception, mudbathing, persecution against political opponents, marginal groups and so on – suspension of any journalistic ethics and complete loyalty to the regime. And if you think that RTV or STA cannot become completely like this, watch Polish national television or see what public space looks like in Hungary. There I have Orban under me holding with 500 media that works as much as it looked the media space in the Soviet Union, some reverberating chamber in which only one truth echoes and that is the truth of the regime. If you want to live in a country like this, please, I absolutely wouldn't. Second thing, the demographic fund, which is also connected to it. This is not based on pensions, his contribution to the pension fund will be minimal. The demographic fund is being set up to provide the government with a holding facility through which it will be able to deploy from one place throughout state-owned enterprises, through the media, through supervisory councils, so that it can find a place for its people and its loyalists everywhere. That's why you're not deciding between Karl Erjavec and Janez Janša today. You decide whether we will try to suspend this government and calm the state in the country with the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc or risk the destruction of constitutional order, democracy, rights, freedoms. You decide whether we will share the values you have told them European, or whether you will allow someone with a machiavalist policy to continue to try to transform this society into another Hungarian, nationalistic, self-loathing and corrupt country, where one party controls virtually everything and where it is necessary to be a member of this party if you want to go anywhere. It is your decision, but know that history will be written about today, and you will all be accountable to it. Life does not end at the end of the term, the consequences of today's decision, whatever it may be, will be borne for the rest of your life. That's all I'm gonna say at the end. You all know that we have much more ambition in Levica than the defence of constitutional order. Our ambition is to drive society in the direction of social reform, it is in a direction where it will be able to live decently from its work; in a direction where there will be no caste that will benefit the fruits of all others; in a direction where equality will apply; in a direction where we can talk seriously about the ecological transition that we need to carry out, it is decarbonisation if we want to enable survival on this planet for decades to come. But we have, without reservation, joined the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc, which does not have much greater ambition than the defence of the constitutional order in Slovenia, but we have joined because we know that the defence of existing civilisation standards is a minimum and a condition that we can talk about any progress at all. If you allow the existing state to perpetuate, however, we will continue to monitor the deformation and decomposition that have occurred to us in the last ten months. I hope not forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr. Karl Erjavec, Mr. President of the Government! Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! The plagues, famines, and armies are certainly the most difficult trials for mankind and man. For over a year, mankind has been threatened by the plague of our time, covid-19, or the deadly new crown of SARS-COV-2. Some still declare that it is either an imaginary political project or a political issue that is interpreted by taking into account or disregarding measures to combat the spread of infections. So if you wear a protective mask, you support the current government, if you're not wearing a mask, you're against the government. Fortunately, the silent majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens understand and strictly respect the Government's actions and the laws we have adopted because we can only manage together. It is the cooperation, patience, patience, efforts and efforts of all and the beginning of vaccination that rekindle the light that the deadly virus put out a year ago. A good year ago, when the new crown virus had already begun its destructive march in Europe, there were not many interested in the rule of Slovenia. Some fled — as they did in 1991 — and during the pandemic they wanted government and electoral campaigns. People left alone, which was the water on the deadly mill of the new crown of the virus. Now the left bloc of the opposition has been flowering for four months with distrust and fiction and rusty accusations by the current government seeking to regain power. They do not care that all of us who are part of Slovenian society are tired and injured by the consequences of the new crown of the virus. They reject any cooperation, even boycotting the invitation of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to reconciliation talks. They're only interested in power. They are interested in the restaurant of a previous system, which is also clearly shown in the political programme of one of the parties to the left-wing opposition block, where nationalisation is explicitly predicted. I quote: "The ownership of companies will be transferred to the hands of the state and local communities and we will establish labour, agriculture and consumer cooperatives. That is why we will change capital bearers and socialised profits." There is nothing wrong with this programme, but the question is whether we have been united in this regard, if we have reached a social consensus, such as the content of the 1989 Main Declaration or the 1990 plebiscite. Respected entrepreneurs, respected farmers, we fear that the time is coming when everything will be as it was more than 30 years ago. Calls for revolution have already been made from the streets of Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen! New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, a party with 32 years of history, does not attach particular importance to the non-truster. We understand that the left opposition must end the long-awaited project in some way. The candidate for Prime Minister of the Slovenian public, and in particular the voters, know very well, so it would not be rational to lose words. In addition to the already cited part of the programme of one of the non-trust candidates, we regret — indeed we regret — that there is nothing in the text of the non-trust proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to describe what this new future would be like for Members to vote today, following the instigation of some of the heads of the parties who propose non-trust. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats today, because the first anniversary of the current government is approaching, will be used for a thorough presentation of our achievements in this government, with numbers. With numbers. In order to refresh the memory, New Slovenia, a Christian democratic environment, joined this government when our society was most difficult. We did not have much time to think, with whom, and how we should consider in normal circumstances. No! No! We came in because we knew that society before the historic test was difficult. No one other than the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus coalition was willing to fight the monster that attacked the entire world. Today, when we can say that we have defeated the worst, to see the light at the end of the tunnel, of course everyone would like to come to power. In spite of the constant findings of the left opposition, I should remind you that the current government has already prepared the first package, within 100 hours of the oath in the National Assembly, to limit the spread of infections and assistance to the population and the economy. That's what the government repeated seven more times. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, together with the Government, in order to find optimal solutions, there are presidents of key employers and workers' organisations, directors of health care institutions, directors of educational institutions, university directors and mayors of Slovene municipalities who are unreasonably assessing today's non-trust, because after many years of neglect of local communities, this government has listened to the needs of people in local communities and has so clearly expressed support for decentralisation of the country because subsidiarity is one of the important values of the European Union and New Slovenia. In Pomour alone, the country is currently implementing 137 projects worth a total of EUR half a billion. I'm also adding a pomur water supply, system B, which was put in a drawer a few months ago. Now it's before realisation. Despite the pandemic, this government has significantly increased Slovenia's specific weight in the institutions of the European Union and in the international community within 11 months. With the intensive search for and strengthening of the alliances slowly, but persistently, we are putting Slovenia on the level when the Presidents of the European institutions saw us as a new star in the European sky during our first Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The proof that Slovenia is valued and respected in Europe today is figures; the figures that say that this government has been very well negotiated at the European Summit for the financial resources of the next multiannual financial framework and for the Fund for Recovery and Resistance. It was the conclusion of the negotiations and the adoption of a compromise proposal at the December 10th European Summit that gave fresh impetus to the left part of the opposition to overthrow the government. So it's about money. This is clear to all today, but most of all to those who have been in the state trough for many years, because it is their human right because they were and are yours. It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, that politics divides people into yours and ours, that politics in NGOs has and is looking for its political activists. Dear Members, in New Slovenia, we are pleased that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Defence, after years of unsuccessful attempts and lack of political will, finally settled the status of soldiers after 45 years and brought to the National Assembly a law that eliminates the years-long unconstitutional state of defence. Thanks to the Minister of Defence, the interest in service in the Slovenian Army has increased considerably. Minister Janez Cigler the King has worked with great enthusiasm in three areas. First of all, comprehensive care for the elderly. He provided 30 million euros for nursing homes, i.e. for investments in 2021 and 2022. In comparison, in 2019 only one million euro was spent on such investments, in 2018 only two million. He has provided funds for new more than 500 employees in the homes of older citizens. It strives for a responsive labour market and for a transparent and user-friendly system of social and family transfers. In the National Assembly, John Cigler King defended four of the eight PKPs, which saved some 300,000 people from losing their jobs. Minister Jernej Vrtovec is responsible for the record budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In 2021, for the first time in history, we have more than a billion resources available in the budget. Most of the money will be earmarked for transport infrastructure, mostly in the rail sector, namely €509 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you to the coalition partners, ministers and Members of the SDS, SMC and to the recent Desus that you have enabled us in New Slovenia to realize our political agenda. With constant dialogue and tolerance, we will move many things forward for the better by the end of our term of office, and will ventilate what is now in the dark. We can do this together. We will support, as has been the case so far, good opposition proposals, particularly those that fall within the framework of our coalition treaty. We're not perfect, we've made some mistakes. We are just human beings — and whoever works makes mistakes too. For all our mistakes, respected citizens and citizens, I sincerely apologize on behalf of New Slovenia, but I say that we fully understand the plight of individuals and take into account that because of the pandemic we are all already tired and injured. Thanks to Slovenian health personnel who are putting in superhuman efforts to protect our health and our lives. And thank you to the quiet majority for the generous support we feel. Ladies and gentlemen! In Novi Slovenija we sincerely wish that in the 30th year of our country and after 170 years in Slovenia also the announcement of Victor Hugo, who wrote: “The day will come when the fields of squawking ideas will be the only battlefields.” It is true that it is time for Slovenian policy to once again become a battlefield of ideas and values based on arguments. Thank you for your attention. President of the Government Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members! A reputable candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government! To repeat history first as a tragedy, then as a farce, Karl Marx once said. That is true, our parliamentary history also bears witness. Even some actors are the same. In the last ten years, we have had only two votes in this National Assembly on constructive non-trust, and in both cases this extreme opposition tool has been used against the same person – Ivan Janez Janša. The previous vote also took place in connection with the crisis. It wasn't a health crisis at the time, it was a financial crisis. But its consequences for Slovenia and the whole world were very severe, even in cases where the crisis was not properly managed, even if the then government or government did not make the right decisions. The times are serious, but they are not extraordinary, said President John Janša. Well, that was an emergency, and it turned out pretty soon. The economic and social situation has deteriorated and Slovenia has also threatened to break the banking system. The state was in debt at the highest interest rates and it must be said that the second Janša government was the one that was in debt at the historic highest interest rate by 5.5 per cent in October 2012. We even threatened that we would not get any more money without appropriate measures. There was only a few months of money in the state treasury, a few months of pension money, doctors, teachers, firefighters, police officers. The country was just before the bankruptcy. Of course, the President of the Government himself has taken care to tighten the situation. Instead of directing all efforts to restructure the banking system, which was necessary at the time, he preferred to call for help the infamous threesome. In doing so, he did not deviate from his perceived and well-known modus operandi: political recruitment, exclusion of other thinkers, interference with the independence of the media and other independent institutions, and the sale of state property. All of this, in connection with the negative rhetoric of the Prime Minister and his SDS party, has also led to numerous street protests and demonstrations. In February 2103, a constructive non-trust against the then government was put to the vote and the government was taken over by the president of our party mag. Alenka Bratusek. In a few short months, she carried out painful but urgent reforms and took the country away from the collapse, away from bankruptcy. A period of stable and above-average economic growth has begun, which lasted until the outbreak of this pandemic. Now we know that at the time a constructive non-trust vote was the only right way, because we gave this action an opportunity to the new government to save the country and so did it; without foreign aid and without a threesome. What would have happened if a constructive untrustworthy woman had not been voted on and Janša’s government continued to exercise in its own hands? Fortunately, we'll never know. Eight years later, Janez Janša is once again the president who takes over the leadership of the country during the crisis. At first, he was humble and cooperative, as a great deliverer offered the opposition a hand of cooperation. But what the wolf soon takes off his skin and shows his true face. Instead of gathering all the available knowledge and energy that we are going through in this country for a joint fight against the evil disease that has subjugated the world, the already seen patterns of action continue. Once again, political recruitments and interventions into independent institutions, accounting with the media and individual experts are organized. The state owes itself in enormous amounts without making it clear what the exit strategy is, and the threat of the troika has replaced the fear of the state's Orbanization. Once again there are protests against the government, and many find that we have never been so cursed by Slovenians. Despite a good start in the first wave of the epidemic, the outbreak was completely out of control in the second wave. On the 14th. 2. We record 3 000 717 deaths of the epidemic, which by the number of deaths is one of the first countries in the world. We record a historically high public debt of 82.5 per cent of GDP. We had the longest closed education institutions. Children and students, a little less children with special needs, have not seen school benches in almost four months, which has already shown extremely negative consequences not only on their knowledge but also on their psychosocial development. Anxiety is expected to increase by 40 percent, and depression by 55 percent, according to experts. Restrictive measures have been taken sporadicly, confused and without any strategy, likely affecting the fact that we have not had positive results for so long. Public health continues to crack in the seams, with the epidemic stopping virtually the rest of the health system. The consequences of such a stalemate will only be clear in the future. These are sad facts that tell us everything. In addition, the President of the Government continues his political agenda, not only at home, but also abroad through his communication. We are probably the only democratic country where the President of the Government in power does not recognise the results of the 2014 elections and in a letter to European leaders, he resented the fact that the elections were stolen. What does this say about Slovenia abroad, we can only think. And who are the greatest losers of this sad year — pensioners who, because of their poor action in this crisis, pay a huge price, pay physically, with their lives. Immediately after them, all young people who may be paying for the crisis with a lost future; some experts call them a lost generation. Why Slovenia has suffered so much from this epidemic and why the strict measures that have produced results elsewhere have not produced the same effects in us will show professional analyses in the future. Now there is something clear: during this epidemic, the government has lost a key value – people's trust. The value that is even more important in times of crisis. By adopting measures that were not in line with the expertise and were adopted mainly in the cabinet of the President of the Government, with unclear communication, threats, restrictions that change from day to day, so often that even government representatives themselves do not know what is and what is not, and some measures do not even stick. And people, at least a large majority of them, simply have enough. That is why we are offering a government that will communicate calmly and humanly with citizens and adopt measures in agreement with the expertise and stick to them. We offer a government when it is seriously chairing the European Union in the second half of the year, without backpacks full of senseless, unacceptable and harmful political statements. We offer a government that will lead Slovenia along the path of democratic values and respect the Constitution, human rights, the rule of law and, above all, that the state is human and must work for them and for them. In 2013 we also proved in this house that we know how to replace a harmful government. At that time, dear colleagues and fellow Members, some Members who had previously formed a government coalition had the courage to decide and leave the composition that led Slovenia towards bankruptcy. Even then, in a very difficult situation, the new government took the lead and began the path of economic growth and recovery. Today we are in this house before practically the same situation. Therefore, each one of you must consider and must build up courage for the right decision. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for all of you to overlook and do what is necessary before we wake up in another republic to the extent of the SDS. From the outset, this constructive non-trust has secured all the votes of the SAB parties and the SAB Group will support the election of the new Prime Minister of the Government by all votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Member of the Šine Democratic Party of pensioners will be presented by Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear candidate Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! Today we are gathered to decide whether or not we continue to trust the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the current President, Mr Janez Janša. The fact is, we are in extremely uncertain times. The epidemic caused untold damage to both the population and the economy. The crisis, as we don't remember, has taken over the whole world. We are at a crossroads when we need decision makers who will successfully prepare us for all the challenges of tomorrow. First of all, I would like to point out that the members of Desus are pleased with what we have achieved for the pensioners in the past year. Among other things – I will count just a few – extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2 per cent, a rise in the rate of the pension, payment of solidarity allowances at the time of the epidemic for the most vulnerable and others. As primary advocates of the rights of pensioners and other weaker groups, we have found members of Desus' right Central Coalition to be an accomplice who was able to listen to the problems facing all too many people in our country. When we entered the coalition led by Mr Janez Janša on February 25th last year, we wanted to be an example to other parties, we wanted to show that we can overcome the division to the right and left, to yours and to ours and stress the importance of cooperation to solve the pressing problems of the entire Slovenian society. To a certain extent, we have succeeded. As a party not only following ideological guidelines, we have been anchored, always alerting us to the slips that our current government has made in our belief. Let me name a few. The so-called media troika, which was given to public hearing for only a few days, was mainly due to members of Desus's public hearing for a longer period of time, and was then not even included on the agenda of the government. We drew attention to a letter from the Government's representative to the inter-resort report on the rule of law in Slovenia, which was sent to the European Commission. Improper writing by the President of the Government entitled War with the media, which was published on the government's website. Claims on 2014 stolen elections from a letter sent by the President of the Government to European leaders. Early congratulations to the late defeat of the US elections, the departure from our country, from the core of Europe and thus the approximation to undemocratic and unequal social systems. Much dust and heavy words have led to the interruption of the funding of the Slovenian Press Agency. In politics as well as in society, we became enemies instead of competitors. The main criticism, however, is that, as proper coalition partners, we did not have any influence in the formulation of these decisions. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the Government worked under exceptional circumstances. The epidemic has caused situations that no one has ever experienced. Members of Desus's delegation believe that ministers and ministers have done their best to contain the epidemic in the first months and to mitigate its consequences for people and the economy. The resignation of the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Marjan Šarc has put Slovenia in a period of political instability. At Desus's party, we were ready for the new early elections, but we were also aware that more than ever in the given situation was needed to talk to all political parties. Before entering the current coalition, we have clearly formulated our programming requirements, which we must regulate as a country as soon as possible. The commitment to meet these programming requirements has been our condition for entry into any coalition and will always be. Among the conclusions adopted by the Desus Council, we have set ourselves the task of always warning us about all the cases that are ideologically colored, and we have always reacted critically. Despite events within the party during the summer time, members of the party Desus remained united and continued to work constructively with the current government. Although it is known that a great deal has been done for the pensioners in the previous year, on 17 December, Desus decided that the ideological obstacles are simply too large for the party to continue to participate successfully in such a government. There were too many openings to those that led to additional divisions and divisions between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so the party decided to withdraw from the government coalition. Desus is always a demanding partner in the governments of all colors, not because of the desires and ambitions of individuals, but because of the clear programming requirements that we want to implement in governments. Our leadership has always been and will work well for pensioners and other weaker groups and for all citizens and citizens. So far, we have reached the expectations of our voters in all years, as it is undeniable that Desus advocates the right of pensioners and other weaker groups throughout the entire term and not just during the elections. I would also like to highlight the fact that we have been particularly popular in the media in recent months, members of the Desus party, reporting on our insecurities and inequity. Of course, we reject this because we are a democratic party and Members do not vote as instructed, but of course we are coordinating in difficult decisions, and one such is certainly today. Whether we are members of the Desus coalition or in the opposition, we will always support laws and decisions that bring good and better for all people living in the Republic of Slovenia. We agree that the existing government has largely not been effective in solving the problems caused by the epidemic. We cannot point to individuals who are supposed to be responsible for a specific area, but we can say that someone who is in a decision-making and leadership position must, of course, take this responsibility. The scenes from the movies about deadly viruses have become part of our daily lives, and we must be aware that this is now a new reality, but an epidemic or other emergency must not be a reason for aggressive action against the fundamental principles of constitutional regulation, independent institutions and the media. Today we will come up with a number that will not show who the winner is or who the loser is, and will let us know how many there are that we want to change, and on the other hand will show how satisfied we are with the situation we are in, so I appeal to all that we do not remain neutral during this time of health, moral, financial and institutional crisis. We Members cannot hide from the responsibility that has been entrusted to us, we can be better and we must be better in order to preserve or regain the trust of our citizens and citizens. Please note, however, that at this important time for our country, the party Desus, together with its president and candidate for the mandate of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, and the members of the party Desus, will carry out their right and duty with the aim of a better and better future for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I want us to make wise decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u22	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, candidate for President, Mr Karl Erjavec! As I've already said at your consideration of the Minister of the Sharchev Government, you seem to feel yourself capable of all the areas, all the functions in this country. You think of yourself as a multipractice minister, but now you'd like to be more of a diamond multipractice. The truth is different because you weren't as successful as you wanted to show up. At that time, I also said that because of my main role in the historic scandal in the eavesdropper affair, which would result in the loss of Slovenian territory, we should immediately and irrevocably withdraw. Therefore, you do not have the basic moral conditions to have any important public office in this country, let alone to be the Prime Minister of the Government. It would also be a long list of other reasons why you should not be in the place for which you are proposing. It is you, Mr Erjavec, who have always stressed that you are committed to the interests of pensioners and who are more affected by long-term waiting lines, poor hospital work organisation and too expensive medicines used by intermediaries. You've been in power all along, as it's called, but no home has been built for the elderly. Look at this irony, this tragedy. A few thousand pensioners had to die — and unfortunately will have to — in order to empty the waiting line for homes. Instead of longingly providing them with well - equipped homes in which these people, perhaps later here, would survive in a decent way. Mr Erjavec, by your conduct, you will not be the savior with a desperate effort for mandate, but you will be the undertaker of Desus. I truly feel sorry for her because I know many of her members, and I work well with them, especially in Posavje. These are experienced, wise people who know things, so I always like to listen to them and learn from them. But here you have quite a few of you who would just use them instead of actually doing something for them. Those little things, those little bits you gave or all of them together, they're not worth bragging about. Mr Erjavec, if your partners have such a short memory in the opposition, we do not have it in the Slovenian National Party, and I am sure that many voters do not. That's what they showed you in the last election when you only got 394 votes. With such support, or rather, support, after so many years in politics, I would be ashamed to appear in this hall. Otherwise, we are here to express our support for the non-trust of the government of President Janša. See, there is a lot of talk and writing, but no one has really invited the Slovenian National Parties to participate in the opposition. We only learned something about this from the media when he was the first, now former candidate Damjan, also former Minister of the Yangshe government, somehow said: “Ah, the SNS will eventually contribute those three votes.” There's always talk and writing about prices, but they're out of touch, instead of talking about real problems. If you are, I don't know, I'm never for sale, which you already know from both the left and the right. You know very well that, like this government, we also supported the previous one if it was good for the country. Last but not least, the previous government would have ended much earlier if I had not abstained personally from voting on the SAB Minister Angeliki Mlinar. Without our support, we wouldn't have been elected President of the National Assembly like that. Dejan Židan as well as Igor Zorčič. All of this is forgotten when talking about the role of the Slovenian National Party, which always goes on, and so on, especially for stability in the country. The old proverb says you have to put it in front of your doorstep first. This also applies to you who have supported or intend to support Mr Erjavac as a mandate holder. As I said at the outset, the memory is more than obviously a bad point for everyone who wants to replace the current government. I move a lot among people, and I know that some things are not satisfied, but it is necessary to be honest and also to say that even those who are more inclined to the left-wing options do not want Slovenia to be ruled by the announced team that is now being offered here. In this respect, he is first of all Levica. Members of this party should be completely silent in this debate. Yes, quiet! Why? You know exactly why. You had the opportunity to participate in the left government, but you didn't take advantage of it. Not Janez Janša and not the SMC party, in the first place you have allowed Slovenia to have this government, which you so criticise. You have allowed it to be recalculated politically and tactically, and now you blame everyone else, including our president and the SNS client. You will recall how you withdrew your super-coalic support to the government as soon as we announced in the Slovenian National Party that we would support the budget for 2020 and 2021. You've done the math, and you've finally burned yourself, and now for a terminator, you'd obviously be a good person to pass the National Assembly. Just think about how much they could do for the pensioners, for the holiday workers, for the intellectuals, for the culturers, for the NGOs. All these people are really stupid if they're still supporting you and if they're ever gonna vote for you again. I must agree with President Janša, who said that this has happened in recent weeks with a constructive mistrust as a kindergarten. Once there are signatures, the next time there are no signatures. Enough of these bats, because this is no serious policy. Personally, I am surprised to the parties in the left opposition that they cannot find a respectable and capable man who, if elected, would be able to be trusted by citizens in these difficult times. Mr Erjavec is certainly not this man, at least as a politician. After all, it is clear that the Slovenian National Party will not contribute to this proposal of a constructive non-trust vote. However, in order to avoid any dilemma, we will not raise our voices at all. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u23	It is still the last position, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, presented by Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate! Article 1 of the Constitution reads: “Slovenia is a democratic republic.” Democracy is the foundation of our society and our political arrangements. For reasons of democracy, ten Members of the National Assembly may, whenever they wish, place a constructive non-trust, as some have done this time. For the sake of respect for democracy, the Constitution and the laws as fundamental values, we are sitting here today to discuss the work of the current government. Today is symbolic in some way. Some of you have said that decisions will be very important, but one wonders if this day has really been randomly chosen. For today is a deserted Monday, and many things are forgiven. In view of the introductory debates, one would consider that this was a deliberate choice, but it is true that masks will fall in the desert and masks will certainly fall today. In the first point of the non-trust, it is evident to the government under the leadership of Janez Janša that, since March 2020, it has systematically violated the fundamental principles of constitutional regulation, which the applicants have not supported with any evidence. The perception comes at a moment when according to the estimated independent and globally famous medium The Economist democracy in Slovenia is again growing for a long time. The democratic index, as they call the survey of indicators by which they assess the level of democracy around the world, puts us in the 35th place. In the review of Slovenia's classifications over the past 15 years, we can find that the democratic index was the highest in 2006 and 2008, that is, in the time of the government of Janez Janša. However, we achieved the lowest rating in 2017, 2018 and 2019, i.e. during the previous left governments. In 2020, after the takeover of power by the current centre-right government, democracy in Slovenia is growing again. Democracy, as I have already said, is enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution, and the claim that fundamental principles of constitutional regulation are being violated under this government is unrealistic. Even more so, since this government has been in power, democracy in Slovenia has been strengthened. We correct those injustices that have taken place under previous governments. We're trying to build democracy, while you, signed under this mystery, keep tearing it down. Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a social state – another foundation of constitutional regulation that is being strengthened under this government. In eight anti-Korona packages, we have captured every citizen and citizen with state and European assistance. In less than one year, we have reconciled pensions twice and paid solidarity allowances twice to those with the lowest pensions. We've taken care of the young, we've paid the students twice the solidarity allowance. We have increased the number of admission places to studies where employment is provided. Each full-year student and every child were given 50 euros in allowances, plus an annual allowance of 100 euros for families with three children and 200 euros for families with four or more children. We have also increased the child care allowance for every newborn since 1. 1. We have introduced 500 Euros of the solidarity allowance in 2020. In the measures that strengthen the economy, we have taken care of the workers on hold, to maintain jobs, to maintain tourism with tourist vouchers for every citizen and citizen, to suspend the payment of certain rents, to preserve the basic income of independent entrepreneurs and to list them. We also increased the averages and burdened the congregations with unnecessary marriage obligations. With all these and many other measures, we have helped people. Each of our actions, each of our laws and solidarity additions has been aimed at helping people, in caring for their well-being, with great respect and awareness, and on the other hand the responsibility that Slovenians and Slovenes are our greatest wealth. And from this wealth we are building Slovenia, while you are trying to destroy it by using the epidemic for your own political purposes. You also tell us that we have endangered Slovenia's reputation in the European Union and the external political situation in the international community. During the first eleven months of its operation, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ange Logar held 42 meetings with statesmen from around the world. Your candidate for terminator Karl Erjavec held only 14 meetings during the first eleven months of his 2012 operation and there was no epidemic. And let us not forget, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel stressed, the letter from Prime Minister Janez Janša was the basis on which disagreements between the European Union and Hungary and Poland were settled. Without this agreement and with the veto that threatened, Slovenia, like all other members of the European Union, would have lost money to help strengthen and exit the epidemic, would have lost EUR 10.5 billion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and in this government we build good foreign and international relations that you, investors of non-trust, try to break at every turn with the help of the media. At the third and final point of the mistrust, you tell us that we did not know how to deal effectively with the epidemic. You forget, however, that we are among the leaders of the number of vaccines provided and after the current transplantation. That we are at the top of those who have taken care of the social security of their citizens and citizens. You forget that our health system has maintained it and that with many extra beds and additional staff, we have managed to expand it significantly in only six months. In 15 years, you haven't built one hospital or one home of pensioners. In a few weeks we have provided the necessary additional hospital beds in the new suitable premises. When you tell us a large number of the dead, you forget that we have one of the oldest populations. You are also forgetting your many calls for non-compliance. In the SAB party, you named the restriction of movement on social networks to municipalities, which has significantly helped prevent the spread of coronavirus, a prison. In the SD, you were the first to ask children to go to schools without masks. Have you thought about a multiorganised inflammatory syndrome that attacks children after a diseased coronary virus and can cause severe organ damage and sometimes death? A member of the LMŠ, who is also a cosigner of this non-trust, refused to wear a mask in this hall; more than that, he threw the mask on the floor. The members of the SD and the Left have actively participated in the protests despite the increasingly serious epidemiological situation, and yet we, who have always followed the measures prepared by the profession and who have constantly called on people to put their health and health at the top of others, are condemning that we have not faced the epidemic. You left us empty warehouses, called emergency meetings where we discussed topics that were not topical, instead of participating in the creation of anti-Korona measures and the resolution of the epidemiological situation. You've been trying to destroy everything we build, and now you're using the epidemic to fight for power, using it for your political purposes, and using the health and life of our citizens and citizens. For a new term of office, you offer someone who does not even have the support of all of your Members and even less of the support of the people. In 2018, Karl Erjavec received 394 votes in the elections to the National Assembly and was not elected. The current Prime Minister has received 7,000 20 votes and our party has received 220 thousand. What is the credibility of such a candidate who, in the same hour, requires respect for the decisions of the party's authority for his Members, while at the same time urging Members of other parties not to respect the decisions of their authorities? The obvious double criteria. Finally, Mr Erjavec pointed out, for example, the invasion of the Washington Parliament and the necessary measures not to do so. I hope all Members are aware that we have already experienced this. Most of us, Members of Parliament in certain days, had to leave because of protests with the armed police, so we have already experienced this. Because of everything I have said, we will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Untrustworthy, where the opposition is using the epidemic for political struggle for power.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to elect a new Prime Minister of the Government. The representative of the proposer, Jani Möderndorfer, asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. After all these intros, I think it's also an opportunity and a time to answer some untruths. Although Slovenians like to use a word that is more understandable, it is called a lie, so that we can better understand what we are telling ourselves in this hall. What is the goal today, and what do we want to achieve with a constructive distrust? With a constructive lack of confidence in the first place, we want to achieve, above all, the change in this government. Today we have heard the President of the Government say more than clearly that this is – I must say correctly that I will not deceive myself – a “destructive farce” and that a constructive untrustworthy woman who does not have 46 votes is not a constructive non-trust. I hope that at least Members, if the President of the Government does not already master this, you know the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which speak very clearly about how many signatures it takes to make a constructive non-trust. Whether it succeeds or not, of course, is a matter for us, all together, Members and Members of Parliament. Finally, this debate, which is and will be long, will, of course, also be an opportunity for those who are still hesitant or unable to decide how you will vote to make your decision, of course, and so is the case. It is interesting with this constructive non-trust, which is happening for the first time, I must say that I am appalled that it is happening, in some way an obstruction of the constitutional institute, which we do not know in the Rules of Procedure. And not to do it quietly, not to put yourself in line, but even to say it very clearly and loudly: I will not raise my voice. This is a kind of new uniform of SDS, which he then extended to other parties, and this just says more than plainly that there is no courage and understanding for a serious understanding of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I also need to respond to some clear lies that have been said today. First time. Today I have at least three times – and I'm sure from the President of the Government, because I can call him – that no one has been forgotten. You keep saying that you want this lie to happen and that even those who didn't have any of it will even believe that maybe they had something to do with it. In fact, a number of groups have been silenced and overlooked, not to mention the differences that this President of the Government is making on a large scale, irrespective of Article 14 of the Constitution, which says that we are all equal before the law. Next thing. "We have kept hundreds of thousands of jobs," he said. You know, we'll count dead jobs when the epidemic's over and when the action's over and when we see which companies have survived and which companies haven't. At that time, the time will come when someone who boasts today about what he has preserved will come to a plan and will make it clear what a mess he has left behind. That is why we need to replace this government, and that is why we today have a constructive confidence that this will not happen. Now I have heard this the second time from him, saying: “In one year we have adopted more laws than you have in the last ten years.” You know, whenever Janez Janša comes to power, we get a kind of law. This is that it changes one piece at a time and one piece at a time in so-called famous packages, which are today, in a legal sense and in a normative sense, horrifying because nobody understands them today, the government itself ultimately fixes them, the government itself cannot explain what it wanted. This is evident only during the debate when it adopts certain legislation. I don't want this kind of law-making. Therefore, to boast about how many laws he has changed in a way that they teach in law school that you do not use such a way of adopting laws, especially in such a way as to make it clear, in the end, that you cannot even give a referendum to this law. And now we have more than 70 laws that we can no longer get to a referendum or a human initiative, anyone who has already appeared. Next thing. A great insult to the dead. I'm sorry, well, that's where it has to be stopped. Very clear. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government, and a few of you have mentioned, if, yes, many have died, we regret that they died, although Prime Minister Janez Janša has never yet regretted publicly and apologized for what happened, even for his responsibility, and that he would say it in a demeaning manner, in a manner worthy of his family to take for certain measures or omissions in this country – he did not do so. If we go to the facts because he said we're not talking about numbers, we're going to talk about numbers because he said and he showed a graph that says we're actually very good about the dead. This graph that he showed is talking about something else, talking about how because of the health system that we have, it was still possible to pass on everything that's happened to us in the last year, as far as the epidemic is concerned. But he is not responsible for this health system and he has not added anything to this health system – as the Government I speak. But we fought many years ago to maintain this system, that's what this graph was saying, and graphs that speak against what it says are the next. It is a fact that at this time 2 thousand and 30 people have died only in homes for older citizens. Only in senior citizens' homes! And we all have 3,000 728. If we are now going to the facts that say that we have actually done the calculations that are – this is not my data, that you will not think that I will bring this data in a small way – recently published, and it has also been interviewed by Dr. Maja Publisher, who runs the Covid-19 Follower project, she has made it very clear that empirically proven with data that, of course, in the first wave, the relatively expected number of people has died in relation to all the years of the last five years. Then there's a change and a kind of switch happens in the autumn part. And that's what we're going to prove through the debate where this government fell asleep or failed to do its job. She could have, but she wasn't, because she was drunk about sending planes in the air, and she was happy about how easily and with little consequence she solved the first wave of the epidemic. Compared to the figures, I can say that in the last five years, on average, 50 to 60 people have died per month, in Slovenia, in these times died per day, we are burdened only with covid numbers, with 100 to 130 people per day dying per day, an average increase of 17 percent compared to the last five years. Why am I talking in percent? Because there are only two million of us and we cannot compare ourselves by the number of inhabitants with the other countries. But if we are talking about rising to the number of people and the dead, given their normal mortality in countries, then we can say that we are champions, world champions in how the elderly died in our country. Why? Mr Janša says that because the first problem he has identified is that we have the largest age group and that we are here, as I would say, a long-lived society. Yes, it is. But you know, we have an even older average age in Italy and even bigger in Greece, and they don't have about 17 percent of the death rate, just like we did, which says more than clearly that something went very wrong with us. Of course, the President of the Government repeatedly repeats that people are guilty of this or that Member Möderndorfer, who, by the way, did not wear a mask. If I am the problem of this Slovenia, then I am pleased to note that Slovenia has no problems; however, it has a problem somewhere else because it did not act when it should, and where experts, of course this President of the Government exceeds, have warned it. And this was clearly alerted to where she was late and what we should do. The following information on mortality is still very important because we like to compare ourselves with neighbouring countries, it is right to say and make it very clear what this mortality is. What is this mortality, I can say that as a percentage of the average expected mortality in Slovenia last October was 24 per cent - if this information tells you after months. Only November and December were between 80 and 90 percent high. Which means, compared with the Netherlands and Portugal, there was an increase in the expected mortality rate of 10 per cent and England of 14 per cent, France of 9 per cent, Croatia of 8 per cent and Germany of only 5 per cent, which means that we are three times as bad as Germany and at least twice as bad as Croatia. That is why we are talking about the dead today, and that is why I expect today the President of the Government to apologize to the Slovenian people, as my colleague Pojbič would say. And it excuses not in the way he is able to do it, when he simply takes everything to nothing, but that at least he has little dignity for the dead and for the relatives who have died because of the failure of the government, I repeat the failure of the government. The moment will come when we will also talk about this responsibility and someone will start a process of compensation responsibility, material responsibility or any other responsibility – I am talking about objective and subjective responsibility. Where's that line? Especially if it intertwines, but it's very bad and dangerous. Today toying and talking and putting this constructive distrust into nothing is unworthy, immoral, and rude. And I'll tell you why. When he says he needs 46 votes. I'm sorry, but who is the Prime Minister of the government who needs 46 votes? This National Assembly will start with ten signatures. Let me remind you of history. It was a self-sustainment. Which the President of the Government is very fond to remember, and he likes to repeat and thinks that he is the only and only liberator of the Slovenian people, the Republic of Slovenia, and he is most deserving of everything. 1992 – Excuse me, my dears, all those with my colleague Horvato at the head, who has been shouting for the past four months that he must have listened to this constructive non-trust – 1992 were three constructive non-truststeries, one among them: not a successful first, not a successful second, only in the third was successful. Do I tell you how many signatures were under that mistrust? Not only were 46 not signed, they were not 46 at the end when there was a vote! Who was the lead actor and leader of all this? Janez Janša. As always! What's more, he's even determined who's going to sit. My colleague Tonin, who, of course, first used this phrase, was a destructive non-truster – Mr Peterlet from his client, was a failure. Tonin can't remember that because he was only eight years old at the time. He was very small, and he probably didn't care. But today it's good to remember why it's very important that history doesn't falter. So talk, you know, so nonchalant about things that, of course, have no head or tail, but talk about a bunch of fear and fear. Such an act only speaks of being actually afraid. The next lie he's told us is that ministers work here and that they don't have time for a constructive mistrust. All of us sitting here today know that today would be a whole series of ministers, sitting here if we didn't have a co-vide, and if there wasn't such a seating order, there's really no room for ministers to come in. His chief of staff had to sit elsewhere — whatever he was, because I don’t know what functions they have there. That's rude, you know he's saying that two coordinations because of this constructive mistrust must go away! Excuse me, this government should come humbly to the National Assembly because this national assembly has elected this government. The problem is that when this path of the National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, and the executive branches of the authorities and members of the coalition are confused, they do not even know what they are anymore. They don't understand that this is going to come back to them like a boomerang sooner or later. And we're all here because of one factor, and these are people. You know, today I've heard many times about how many votes have been won in the elections and how to humiliate people and candidates and so on. I've heard that a lot. But you know, we don't have a majority system, and that's why we're doing this comparison of how many votes someone got, to me, it seems extremely rude and low. Why doesn't he tell us how many votes his client won in 1993, when they barely formed a parliamentary group? Of course, it had to be forgotten at the time. Why doesn't he tell you which client he really should be running when he's already set up, and then the last minute, you've changed your mind. But today, there's a lot going on with all the other Members and Members of Parliament. It's really low! I understand that we have different opinions, I understand that we see things differently. I also understand that we have different interests and that everyone defends his or her right. But, I'm sorry, with some dignity, with some relationship. The next lie he told is, of course, the famous billions we give in RTV. Sorry, that government didn't put a billion in RTV. It's a fat lie again, all lies, all lies, all the time. That's what everyone who pays for the subscription fee paid for. No budget has given it away, but this government is so fond of saying that it has given something. Why is it necessary to lie? We don't have to lie! Do you think you can convince people on TV with these lies? By the way, television averages 130 million from contributions, or 130 million on an annual basis. And if we put it on the 10, 10 years, and we know that this budget is growing, that it's not the same all the time, it's said to be even less, it's a billion 300. Do you know how much the budget pays for this? Only that part that is minor, small, insignificant, insignificant — for ethnic minorities. Read the law, not the last time you have the quasi author of this marriage. But no, it's coming from this client again because the whole situation has to be blurred. I will continue to prove, even through measures where this government has missed: facts, numbers, dates, names. Believe me, I've done my best. Who is responsible for us being where we are today, and that he died in the fall and winter times every day one bus man? It's unnecessary. One bus! That's what you might have wondered if that was necessary. Of course, today and now, at this moment, the President of the Government is not here because he is in a coordination meeting. The minimum of the minimum and the dignity and dignity of the attitude towards the National Assembly is that the President of the Government would sit here because we are talking about him, his government, and why this government cannot continue to be successful and does not have confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the debate of Members. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. He will be followed by Robert Pavšič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! If Slovenia were a legal state, then today Mr Karl Erjavec would be in court and not before the National Assembly. The reasons for this are at least three; the collapse of arbitration, the biggest blow to the success of foreign policy ever experienced by Slovenia due to those hearings, is well known. At that time, when we examined this, his State Secretary said that Mr Erjavac felt that money was being damaged for devices that would allow for an anti-obsessive connection. Whether it's true or not, let him say it. However, the fact that his public statements at the time also caused invaluable damage to Slovenia and should be responsible, at least politically, perhaps otherwise. Illegal migration, ladies and gentlemen. At that time, Karl Erjavec was the Foreign Minister, advocating consistent respect for the law, which should be the son of qua non, the first and basic decision of anyone who works anywhere in office, or in the European Union or in the European Union as a whole. No, no, no, no, no! He was giving his consent to everything that was going on. Moreover, in order to cover up how everything was illegal with illegal migration, you co-formed behind the back of people and in the initial stage adopted an infamous Marrakesh global agreement, which was then finally adopted by the Marrakesh Sharčev government. Third, final event. The story that Mr Robert Polnar and Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, George Kristijan Petrovič, revealed at the meeting of the committee I am chairing, this story has elements that suggest a possible, possible existence of criminal acts. At least issue classified information, abuse of official status and official rights, use of classified data for purposes other than certain tasks or functions and non-disclosure in the service. I did not specifically announce this earlier, but I now tell you directly – I also informed the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia and I also sent him these magnetograms because it is such a law. Ladies and gentlemen, the law states that if someone learns something that suggests the possibility of a criminal offence, it is his duty to inform the relevant authorities accordingly. And I did it. You are a coalition of hatred. You are absolutely nothing else. The hate coalition against SDS, Janez Janša, everything that is natural, everything on the right. You are, which is even worse, a coalition of hatred against human health. You've been blowing up months and months of riots, protests. Your media has been spreading information about whether or not we respect some of these measures. Even rewarded and encouraged, as heroes did, even criminals who opposed these measures. You are a coalition of hatred against the security of people, as you have proved by denying twice the possibility of the Slovenian Army helping to protect the Slovenian border. You are a coalition of hatred against the welfare of people, because otherwise, with such a stupid proposal that you will support Slovenian companies, it would not be possible to come. For hundreds of years, the state has proved to the country that the country is always a weaker owner, a weaker entrepreneur than private entrepreneurs. Small and medium-sized private entrepreneurs are the engine of development for many reasons. You are opposed to what has been proven successful. You are a coalition of hatred against the successful and you are a coalition of hatred against Slovenia, because otherwise we could not stand before the National Assembly today with such a candidate. I received 4 thousand 405 votes in the last election in my constituency, and Janez Janša received half the votes. But you're offering a candidate for someone who got 394 votes in his constituency. Where, ladies and gentlemen, is the legitimacy of such a candidate, I ask you. People have shown that they don't trust him, they've already overlooked him. You're offering him as a terminator. In the end, not least, ladies and gentlemen, you're abusing the pandemic. Nero was not guilty of burning Rome, either, and you have nothing to do with the fact that there are so many infections and that the situation in Slovenia is much worse than in many neighbouring countries now during the second wave. Yeah, why? Because, even personally, some of you — I can show you pictures, and you know what you were there — you went to encourage protests that did not respect measures that even ignored anti-infection measures against the pandemic. Now that you're on fire, you're singing grief here, how terrible that what happened happened. Ladies and gentlemen, Nero did not finally retain power, but you, ladies and gentlemen will not get it, certainly not my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u29	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Robert Pavšič has the word, and he will be discussed by the Magi. Bojana Mursich. I ask for peace in the hall so that those who speak may say their things in peace. Mr. Pawswich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u30	Well, that's exactly what's expected today. The three points are the main in this constructive non-trust: the fundamental principles of constitutional regulation are systematically violated, the reputation of Slovenia in the international public is threatened and you have completely engaged in the fight against the epidemic. Today we are listening to some escapade while defending foreign policy – you cannot! One is the documents and the reality, and the other is your picture that you're taking. Something for the hair-attracted numbers, personal discrediting of the candidate for the mandate, and colleague Jani told you nicely that this is particularly low. And at least that part of the epidemic you're trying to justify somehow, but with what, billions of euros, it's irrelevant, just the billions of euros we've borrowed. Even if the state borrowed it, it's public money, it's money from all of us, it's irrelevant. It's the same as clapping the ATM, and they were grateful to him for giving us our money. The rule of law, when the ATM is spitting, of course not at all, but when the ATM is spitting, the rule of law dies with the blessing of the coalition. It is completely expected rhetoric and has been constantly searching for new or old culprits for 10 months, and in fact it is a confirmation of what we have revealed to you in non-trust. Disregarding political opponents, not enemies — opposers, and mocking and mocking all who dare to think differently from you. We remember not in 1993, but in 2018. Even though you won, you failed to form a government. Why? Because no one wants to work with you. Why? We've got proof on the palm of our hand today. And even though your coalition partners are closing their eyes, it will soon be clear to them that the situation they're in and that you've created yourself will consume you. She'll eat you. Or they'll learn to act like you, but they'll have to, because they're smaller, they're only happy with the crumbs. It's quite clear that you've completely failed to manage the epidemic, you've covered the entire line. Let's ask again why. The answer is quite simple because you underestimated her so much. At the beginning of the epidemic on 13 March you had everything prepared, and you can say what you want, the crisis plan working, the measures prepared by the profession, the understanding of the opposition and, above all, the understanding of the people, you managed to spend it all again, and it's funny to you today. You're funny! You just didn't like the crisis plan, you made a new one. The law restricted you, you intervened in it with intervention legislation and, of course, you adjusted it all to yourself. You didn't like the profession. What did you do? You just replaced her. And after all these changes, adjustments – yes, someone will have to take responsibility! You underestimated the epidemic. In the worst case, you expected 150 covids of patients in hospitals in March for the second wave, 100 infected with milder symptoms in the homes of older citizens and 50 people in intensive therapy. I haven't made up these numbers right now, they're provenable, and this is what the government at the top communicated with each other before the beginning of the second wave. And who knew about all these numbers? Personally, the First Minister, who is no longer here. These were the bases on which you built the second wave. That is also why you managed it so easily and easily overlooked the warnings of the profession, so you did virtually nothing during the summer. And the result? Last year alone, three thousand 648 people died more than the five-year average, to date more than three thousand 900, if we are accurate without yesterday's data, 3 thousand 977 people. But even if the number is 50%, it's scary. The proof that we witnessed lethargy and experience with good spring statistics in the summer is also your autumn performance. Only in autumn did you start building the Clinical Center in Ljubljana. In the fall you began to train volunteers of the Red Cross, in the autumn you bought additional equipment for non-useable dispensers, only in winter fast tests and even those that operate less than 50%. For two months now, we have listened to many things that are not nearly true and are not true. Some of us go to the archives and follow up on the documentation sent to us by different institutions. Yeah, somebody's gonna have to take that responsibility sometime. This ease of anticipation and a cruel awareness of reality we have seen in the nearness of your policies, other members of the government and high government officials. For example, Tina Bregant, who had to leave the Ministry of Health – I conclude that due to inefficiency – said last October as State Secretary, and now I quote: “This situation has been relatively unprepared for us.” The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health says this in October just after we declared the epidemic. But for the reward and its inefficiency — what? She is now appointed Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Health. This is also the first minister today. Zdravko Restovalšek, economic minister, also admitted in December that we are on a blind street, as far as managing the epidemic is concerned, but this repentance has quickly withdrawn from the already known arrogant people. What about you? You continue to blame people who do not respect the measures, although we have already heard from experts, not from politicians, that Slovenia's percentage of those who respect the measures is completely comparable to other European and global countries. And many others, for the hair of the facts drawn. Why did we have such mortality? This one's actually arrogant, and I can't find a word. Today, we have heard from the President of the Government that people are to blame because they are old for dying. And now you're offering us a hand because we're supposed to hate you. No, I don't hate you, so I can't be blinded either. But I don't want to see you anymore, not in this position at all – now I'm telling the President of the Government, who isn't here. I don't want to see him anymore. Therefore, dear colleagues, today is the last opportunity for a retrial, the last opportunity for a retrial, because tomorrow Janez Janša will eat all of you and vote today “for” is the vote for Slovenia, the vote for normal life, the vote for respect, in fact, the voice of conscience. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič will discuss it with Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Where do I start? With all that has been heard in the views of the opposition's members and also by the Members, I can only add that this government is harmful to citizens and citizens. And not just for those who are here today, but also for those who are coming. But most of all, I am concerned about this humiliating, low-level attitude toward the opposition and also about those who think differently. The attitude towards the hate speech which is at an extremely low level in this National Assembly and also on social networks. Once I think we've reached the bottom, there are even lower behaviors. First of all, I must say that the problem for me is the expression of the President of the Government, which he has shown today in his opening statement; the President of the Government, who should be an example that should be treated with respect, dignity and humility. But in all this bad year, we've seen and heard everything but that. We're as divided as we've ever been. That's what I'm worried about. Given that we have a very limited time, I will touch only one key thing, and this is home for the elderly. In the first wave, it turned out that the most important task was to protect the most vulnerable population. Unfortunately, the government failed in the first wave, but I would expect that the first wave of the epidemic, that the government had learned something, would have prepared appropriate measures for the second wave. The government has learned nothing from its spring experience or has failed to prepare for the second wave, despite the fact that the government's expert committee has proposed a number of measures in the event of a possible second wave, which the government has overlooked for a short time. We have also called on the Social Democrats in good time to prepare the Government successfully for the second wave of the epidemic, with parliamentary questions first to the competent ministry, and later to address not only the issues but also the solutions which were, of course, professionally justified, but unfortunately, we have been overheared. Homes for the elderly were given confused instructions and guidance, no help was received to better protect and care for the sick. There were calls for help. Unfortunately, they were over-heard. If we did something in the direction that even a government expert group proposed in the summer, these consequences would be significantly smaller. The key problem was that they did not separate the infected from the healthy caregivers. To a large extent, there have been problems due to spatial capacity, but no external red zones have been organised to which we have warned. We had empty hotel accommodations, gyms, other resorts, especially health resorts that met all the conditions that could be provided to caregivers in homes, but the government did not hear that. Homes were given vague instructions on how to act, preventive testing was on paper, in practice it was not carried out. In view of this, I should only conclude with the statement made by the Minister of Labour on 28 September 2020 when Minister Cigler Kralj stated that there will be no new measures in the homes for the elderly for the time being; the measures they put in the first wave are sufficient. Is that really what happened? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word, and he will be followed by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u34	Thank you, Vice President. That's a nice greeting for everyone on my side! Yeah, it has to start at the beginning. We must find that the starting point today is actually the finding that the government of Janez Janša is harmful. In this bad year, ever since this situation, we've actually come so far that in fact, there's nothing left to do but call on that river, that hope is the last one to die. This hope is at this point, if you want, 60, 64 percent of the people who don't support this government, the 80 percent of the people in this country who care about where the democratic path is going in this country and so on. People who are scared, who are insecure, concerned about the unpredictability that currently reigns in this country. Today’s distrust is, in some ways, that hope. Thus, we have listened to all these people who are sick; who are sick of decommissioning countries that are sick of decomposing its democratic order, who are sick of breaking down constitutional principles that are full of human rights trampling, and who are tired of skating into some worrying form of self-cracy. They are full of subjugation and intimidation of the police, the military, the media, courts, culturers, schoolchildren, NGOs or a common nominee, if you wish, all who disagree or think otherwise than Janez Janša thinks. They're full of looting. Satisfying the wrong purchases of protective equipment, lost mask trucks, poor respirators, stinking fast tests, which have accuracy only in some coincidence. They're full of skytolls, they're fed up with situations like Honesty and so on. All these people are also fed up with the harassment, cruelty and insults of the Prime Minister, who today was once again a witness who poured out his bile and bounced out of this hall instead of sitting here listening. It's the arrogance of ministers. They're fed up with inability to manage an epidemic. The epidemic is being exploited for some of its own partisan purposes. They are tired of not being able to protect the most vulnerable in this bad year; all those who have died in homes for older citizens, all who suffer the consequences of disease, all who have lost their jobs, all students, students who have also lost their jobs and all who, in fact, are unable to work at a time when many activities have been closed, are practically fighting from day to day for survival. The defence of constitutional regulation, the defence of people, these are the keys to today's debate, these are the keys to today's vote. I think that we need to save our people and the people from the fact that they are fed up with all the wrong moves of this government and, above all, to include in us today two buttons: responsibility and principle. If they are included, I think the result will be positive, and people will be significantly easier to breathe.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word and will be followed by a mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sure you're aware that not all the problems have arisen overnight. It is true, however, that some of the KUL opposition have been in power for the last 20 years of 14 years and that you are responsible for most of the problems that have arisen. You have solutions for everything, but that's only when you're in opposition. This government is doing well, so we do not need another government. But if another government were to happen, I'm sure the nation's name is bad. In New Slovenia we work differently, responding to all problems step by step. We believe in action. The fact is, there's not gonna be any bread from this flour today. It is sand in the eyes, it is 10 hours and 45 minutes of unproductive debate, from which our citizens will have nothing, nothing. Nothing that would improve their standards just to make people fight and share more. But this whole circus wouldn't be, and I'm pretty sure if the RTV camera didn't carry it. That's a fact. A show for people who are watching this right now on TV screens. I do not agree with every decision of this government, but I support this government. I support this government. But not because of the composition, but because this government is working and because this government is doing what the previous government has not done. I am convinced that this government is much more capable than the former government or any other government that has been capable of KUL. Erjavec for the President of the Government – please!? Neither do the Members of Desus, the three own Members of Desus, believe in this; and this says all. You have no support for your own Members, except for the disappointed voters and pensioners you promised them a thousand euros in pension. The fact is, the government of Marjan Sarca was on one boat where Prime Minister Marjan Sarec was captain and the crew rowed each one on their side. I believe that with the individual interests of the presidents of the coalition parties, Marjan Šarc had enough. I want to remind you that you couldn't work with Karl Erjavc. But, Your Honor Karl Erjavec, tell me one thing, explain why the same players want to put the government back together? You think the team that lost last time is gonna be any better this time? I really don't understand you wanting to work with people you didn't go with before. But now it's going to work, I'm asking you. I understand even less your attacks on Minister Restoration, but I'm not his lawyer, but, for this minister, you wrote and filed an interpolation, you read him everything you can get on the acquisition of protective equipment. At that time, I listened to the debate all day, in the National Assembly. But now you invite this same gentleman into this new coalition, all for the votes. For the 46th vote, forget your principles. As if that's not enough, I'd like to remind you of your television performance during the pre-election period where Karl Erjavec said about Marjan Sarc that a new face would be a new mistake. A new face will be a new mistake. These words were spoken by Karl Erjavec, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, and said to Marjan Šarc: a new face, a new mistake. Well, today we'd be loading you the same coalition. How they'll function after what you've said publicly in a pre-election confrontation. Well, we've all seen this before, you've lasted a year and a half, and even if today happened to get 46 votes, I believe you won't, you wouldn't last a summer vacation, I'm sure. You had your chance. Your government, the government of Marjana Sharca, has resigned, and now we want to return to power. At first you had a government, then you said you wanted to go to the early elections, now you'd like to have your government back. We have heard that Jože P. Damian will be the mandate-holder for Karl Erjavec to put an untrustworthy vote of 46 votes, then you said you would put it to the table with 43 votes, then you said you would put it to 10 votes later, last time you put it to 11 votes. At first, it was said that the unconstructive hopelessness would be brought by Miklavž, then by Santa Claus or Santa Claus, and in the end, it would be empty. It's just the right time. I really congratulate you on that timing. I'm sure you don't know what you want anymore. What you're doing is childish. Since you have been investing in an unconstructive hopelessness for three months, one wonders how long you would spend together an antikorona package; for six months, I am sure or probably six months. Tell me in the end, honestly, each of you should answer the question: which one of you in this room and which one of you, all of you who are watching this on television, honestly thinks Karl Erjavec is the Prime Minister of the Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, and Robert Polnar will discuss it. My colleague, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. On Friday, the coalition tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting on dialogue, dialogue, conduct in the National Assembly. All those of you who have signed this call, I call for you to look again at the start of today's session when Mr Erjavec spoke as a mandate-holder. Look, then tell me if those signatures at the request of a reference still fit. The constant calls, the dreary, the laughter, it's your political culture that we all get that we're not with you. Sad, really sad. “If the coalition will prove in the next two years that it is right to refuse to grow, that Slovenia will achieve positive growth in two years, then I will retire as a politician and enjoy this prosperity.” Janez Janša, Echoes, 2013. We did not have to wait two years, already in 2014 we ensured economic growth, more than two percent, but Mr Janez Janša is still here; and, as a number of times, he also then swallowed up his word. In fact, what have you been able to do this year?Oh, my God! You've achieved some infamous or, according to your famous record, I'm going to be specific too. First of all, you have managed to repay the country the highest in history, with a public debt of 82.5%, the highest in Slovenian history at any time. This is the result of the third government of Janez Janša. And believe it or not, even the interest rate at which our country was most indebted has been able to obtain the government of Janez Janša, 5,5 % in October 2012. Yes, these are your achievements. The economic growth you like to talk about in 2012 we were in red, then led by Janez Janša, and today we are deep in red, also today led by Janez Janša. Schools are closed as long as possible. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll tell me which country had schools closed for longer. There's no one in our neighborhood and in Europe. So, the third infamous record of the third government of Janez Janša. And now, in his introduction, the Prime Minister manipulated the government terribly because he showed the percentage of those who died in the infected. Second, here you see, we're second in mortality to the world. This, dear colleagues, is a very good result of the work of this government. Why aren't people taking action? Because they don't believe you. You have absolutely nothing to read from the SAB. Although we did not agree with a number of measures, we always call on people in public – respect the measures. I've been getting a lot of criticism on the road myself when people tell me -- that's out of the question, that's out of the question, we're not going to do that. No! No! The measures are adopted, implemented and should be followed. But it is true that we should tell our ministers first. Do not allow them to sit 200 at dinner; no problem to open a banquet for the minister when for normal citizens it must not be open that the minister wants to cross the border when none of us can cross the border. These are things people don't trust. And if there happens to be a third wave, believe that then the numbers under this government will be much more devastating. Yes, I agree with those of you who said that today, when Mr Janša took the floor, he must first gather the courage and apologize to Slovenian citizens and citizens for the conflict with the Second Wave of the Epidemic. That's a fact and that's what the numbers are saying. A constructive mistrust in these times would be highly controversial to invest. You filed an intervention against Minister Chufer on October 2, 2013, just before the bankruptcy. And you weren't worried. There was nothing to worry about that we discussed here hours and hours and hours, but Minister Cuffer had to work hard to provide money for pensions, wages and everything else he needed. This is supposed to be unacceptable today. Of course, because it is permissible only when you are in opposition; but when you are in government, then we should sit and wait and be quiet. We've been quiet many times, many times. We didn't vote against a lot of things, and maybe we should look back now. But we have just estimated that it is right that in a difficult situation we, as the opposition or I can speak for the client of the SAB, do what is necessary, even if it is difficult. Today we were able to hear what follows who will be the main targets below. Public RTV, they're already, uh, NGOs, in short, everything that's not SDS. I don't know if all those who so enthusiastically defend this government know where this is going; but we will all come before the voters soon, sooner or later; and you will tell them why you do certain things the way you do. No one was supposed to be overlooked; indeed, in eight anti-Korona packages, the ninth was supposed to be preparing now, but one was more visible than the other. You gave the students €150 twice in one year or so to priests, €700 a month. Are they more hungry than students? Is food more expensive to them than it is to students? These are the things that we remind ourselves of, and these are the things that we will be reminded of over and over and over again. And today, respected colleagues and colleagues, you have the opportunity to find such a government, to make a replacement. If not, of course you will decide, respond, as I have already said, to your constituents and voters. It is clear to us which side we are on – the rule of law, respect for the Constitution, human rights, respect. As we say, each one in his own way, and in the end always, and just like that, there always comes a payment for what you do. And, of course, I will be very happy to vote for Mr Erjavac myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Polnar. Prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Never in any country, even in the most normal circumstances, is a small political event required to vote no confidence in the government. It is certainly a matter of introducing a new element into the political life of the country, at least so it should be. However, whether we can attach this to the way in which non-trust problems arise from the proposed sequences and from the measures to be implemented. There are few Members in the Slovenian National Assembly who do not accept the role of surpluses. Most of them care only about their political figure in such a senseless situation. Every coward is convinced that he becomes a great politician when he leaves out that politics is governed only by reason of power and that he is only interested in success in the fight for power. Makiavelism, reduced to client discipline. Obedience became the only political will and its only power. All topics are discussed as a question of loyalty, such as conducting exams for client games. The debates identify loyalty, not the Member's personality, party affiliation, but not the Member's attitude towards the country and the country. I am a Member in a completely different way. I appreciate my work. I take it seriously because I think it's important. I understand politics in the Aristotelian sense. Politics isn't a scam to me. It's not a trick. For me, politics is a common good, dedication, competence and, above all, a great responsibility. I have the power to say publicly what I think, without fear of consequences. In that sense, I'm not afraid of anyone. I can talk to everyone, but in my views, I'm sure as much as anyone agrees with it or not. The struggle to be a real man is short-lived, it only lasts as long as we live. I know that many disagree with me and that I am also going to many people's nerves; but this is legitimate in democratic society and, in fact, there is no problem if all the inconsistencies remain within the framework of a normal democratic debate. There's no good alternative. The question is whether the alternative is worse or equal. In our country, absurd things have already been happening against common sense. But the fact that we're going to fall so low, this measure and the amount of absurdity in all of this, it's really surprising. Proponents of non-trust, fearlessly principled as God has given them, wave with old Flossules and cornea to return to power, counting on a brief memory of the Slovenian silent majority. Okay, the tactics are, in a modern way, legitimate. In a political and economic situation, opposition policy is based on two pillars: the ideology of demonising the reality and selling economic and epidemiological impossibility policies. It's all lined up with big words, big enough to be intercepted by a spider's web. The basis of shameless short-term lies is the belief that Slovenian people do not think and that they are to the end of their minds as if the Republic of Slovenia is an incurable Balkan parish in which folklore mentalities can overcome civil logic. Of course not. The Slovenian state with its institutions has its history, tradition and integrity and is in itself more important than all of us together and than any of us individually. We Slovenians built our own statehood and its attributes not only in a single country, but much earlier in federal Yugoslavia, especially after the adoption of the Constitution in 1974. Therefore, the Slovenian Republic is too strong an organisational system that operates according to its internal laws so that its constitutional foundations can be laid down for any individual and his adlatus. On the contrary, people who claim to be social structures — technological, economic, social, mental — must impoverish to the level of simplest primitiveness. To that reduced complexity, which they themselves only understand, and which is the condition that they should rule; and not someone else. The great Danilo Kish, timeless in his verbal art, and certainly the greatest ironizer of Balkan spiritual stereotypes, would use his popular surrealist winged – indeed, what you say, and the elephants are contagious. In Slovenia, everything is crushed, transformed into stories and episodes, into the work of different stakeholders, within which individuals compete for their own account. There are no other criteria and no other objectives, only trivial phrases appear to be a national hope in order to play the depth of policy and the importance of its role. This is the behavior of cynical and provincial self-sufficiency, one that is itself always and everywhere beginning and ending. Ladies and gentlemen, the free word is the salt of democracy. In democracy, freedom of speech poses many dangers. For a good speech, freedom of expression is essential. But where anything can be said publicly, the word quickly devaluations and perishes. Every now and then, it's replaced by a toxic anti-word. The antiword is a word that is taken away from aesthetics, ethics, and meaning. The anti-word is inadvertent, dishonest, and essentially stupid. It is a sign of disrespect for the hearers and of itself, it is shameful and unacceptable. A person who is the most authentic example of anti-words in national politics has applied for the leading grass of non-trust. An individual who has imprecise problems in articulating his own thoughts [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u41	Dear Mr Polnar, fellow Members, I ask that, on the basis of Rule 75, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, you do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pollnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u42	Thank you for your intervention, Mr Vice President. They can say what they want, they can't bother me. An individual who has imprecise problems in articulating his own thoughts and a terribly modest express register. An individual whose imagination is so pitiful that his most loyal followers would weep over him if there were such a thing. An individual whose ambition is a hundredfold beyond his intellectual and eloquent abilities. A man who is filled with some extremely anti-spiritual imagination, who apparently enjoys himself as an ambitious schoolboy preparing for a class celebration. And with such psychoidity they are invited by the well-designed proponents to improve nothing more and no less than the international reputation of Slovenia. Nice! Consider, however, the unimaginable burlesques that the activist in tandem with the then Chief of Staff presented two years ago within one of the key state subsystems of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The opposition rage over the fact that the party's leading role in the coalition has been taken over by the far largest MPs in Parliament, has spread to incompetence and now shows that it is unrelentingly carrying us against the next outbreaks of fanaticism and obsession. Different forms of fanaticism grow from radical transformation of positive feelings of commitment and belief and express themselves in extreme intolerance and negative attitude of fanatics towards other people and to their own natural needs. In fact, it is a story of self-blindness, alienation, existential aimlessness, and fundamental disrespect for everything, beginning with itself. Any articulated criticism of the authorities should point to discrimination between the electoral outcome and the effects achieved, not based on an angry underestimation of the electoral outcome and a mocking denial of any effects. The political space in Slovenia has become a hostage of ruthless abderite wars, which have torn the country apart in two blocks so that it can be offered or ignored, as the current mood of political strategies dictates. The Reformist spirit does not rest, as does his polylinguistic pedagogy. This is confirmed in the fact that recessionary and epidemic psychosis causes a consistent opposition to the original decadent ways. In fact, it fills people with discouragement when people who do not realize their limitations begin to marvel. Indigenous people whose ambitions are repeatedly beyond their capabilities. And perhaps we have never experienced, just as we have today, that the foolish are immodest in reasoning, lying with truthfulness, partial with diligence, cowardly with courage, and bankrupt with business. Ladies and gentlemen, there are few things that are as perplexing as hatred. Hatred paralyzes the spirit and suppresses creativity because a person who hates feels safe only within what is familiar to him and only with those who are like him. Therefore, hatred in itself is neither the natural nor the desirable state of the human spirit, but the pathological phenomenon that is most easily provoked by fear. Hatred earners, therefore, always spread fear in people, which completely destroys and eliminates individual noble human qualities, all the way to compassion and reasonableness. Foolishness and hatred are deeply attracted to one another. But when you embrace and intertwine, it is impossible to know whether someone surrenders to hatred and sits on it because he is stupid, or whether hatred has maimed him and choked him with all that is human, including reason. There is no way to overlook that people are able to truly love their hatred and integrate it into their identity. Above all, when hatred and stupidity prevail, heads fall. It is a poor comfort that hatred exhausts people and sooner or later passes away because stupidity itself never fails, but it has a voting right. But it is also true that powerful deviations and lost opportunities are also very fond of fiction, unreal overblown expectations. In particular, they have become rich during the epidemic of turning times, when the restless and arduous tribe of weary ones after a long and endless explanation of the injustices of this world, for what they are deprived of with all their abilities and merit, and the sacrifices they make. However, the independent state is always more transformed into a sandstone. In the sandstone of deranged mentalists, rural ostracists, decorators and dignitaries, all sorts of noise-deserving, late heroes and moralist fucks; let me forgive the word, but I can't find any more appropriate. Politics plays its role only when a laboratory of human actions in which nothing is repeated, where ideas are tested in an irreversible way, is inevitable and with unpredictable consequences. They work together in a planned and unplanned manner, simultaneously and unstoppable. That is how our world is, and that is how we stay and achieve our goals, so we deal with the important puzzles of our existence and the working answers to them. The point of all passions is that one day they will melt away, like the fate of every fanatic to overwhelm themselves at the end. Reasonableness — eternal, quiet, and patient — can wait and endure. Often, when others get angry, they have to keep their mouths shut and keep their mouths shut, but her time comes, and she comes back to her senses. The non-trust, as envisioned and presented, is the most abominable orgy of vulgar political discredit. Just another opportunity for Noah’s ark of supporters of the flat earth. The only thing that can be done is to maintain a healthy mind, a personal measure of humanity, and to oppose. It's the only smart thing to do in all this madness, it's the only humane thing in this total nourishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u43	Thank you very much. There is a candidate for the new Prime Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u44	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for all the contributions you have made so far by Members and Members of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, some of these events were offensive, but I don't think there's any need for this insult. I think we can have a cultural dialogue, because today we will only decide whether to trust the new mandate holder to get the votes needed and to form a new government that will bring about a different policy, certainly not so harsh, insulting and rude. I regret that the Member, who is supposed to be the best Member of all time, is leaving because I would still like to say a few words. Especially because he is very brave when it comes to words, he should be committed to the truth. As a non-member Member of Desus, he spent more than 15 minutes of his time on the Desus Group. If I were so brave in my actions, I would appreciate it because someone who still insists on being a member of Desus's Group, which was ruled out by the basic organization at home, they don't want it at home, and we don't want it here, but he's committed to his truth. He just doesn't know what happened in the middle. As far as these readings of my legitimacy are concerned. The difference between me and some of the Members who are sitting here is that, as the president of a party celebrating 30 years this year, I have always assured 15 years as the president of the party that this party has found its place in the National Assembly. I remember the first time I became President of Desus, before that, on 3 December 2004, whether Desus was even a parliamentary party was counted. It was counted at the request of your Prime Minister, because it was a little less than 200 votes that allowed Desus to be a parliamentary party at the time. And in all these years under my leadership, she's always come to Parliament. The fact that you're telling me how many votes I got or didn't get was never my motivation, because my motivation was that Desus would be a parliamentary party. And even in the introduction, I explained why I came back. I no longer wanted politics, not this public life, because it's become cruel, primitive, unkind, we're in the middle of some kind of war or conflict. I don't think it's good, it's not good for Slovenia, it's not good for this national assembly. And believe me, if not otherwise, we will meet at the House of Members, because I have already been elected to this National Assembly. I probably haven't sat in this National Assembly in a very long time, because I've always been part of the government coalition; and of course you'll be able to tell me again what I haven't done in these 15 years or what I should have done as president of one of the small parties in this House. But I tell you, I am proud of my results, and it is not crucial that the mandate-holder should be elected as a Member. If that were the key, then I don't know why the SDS participated in Anton Bayuk's government. If I recall correctly, he was not elected as a Member. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sure, but he wasn't elected because it's a key issue now. And I'm glad if this is the only problem we have today, then you can support my mandate if that's the only thing that's bothering you. As far as these matters are concerned, I hope I won't be hearing about legitimacy until the end of this session. I can, it doesn't bother me, but I know why I'm here, and I want to do this mission with honor. However, it would be good for Members and Members of the National Assembly to do this duty with honor. Perhaps a few more words concerning the issue of confidentiality in the draft report drawn up by the Court of Auditors. Let the fellow Members who have been to this meeting say if I have betrayed anything. And if I betrayed, then why am I not in some kind of process, if that's true? But I assure you, nothing has been published. And this is again from a Member who is no longer a member of Desus and who is promoting the truth here and I don't know what. The big words, I see, are not the truths. I can also say that when he was running for Desus, he was silent that he was even a member of Desus because Desus is also one of the conditions for being a member. So much for truthfulness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Get Susanna Pretty Chimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The deposit of this constructive non-trust is a circus. It is true that every circus is round, and it is true that every circus has its clown. Big circuses also have two or three clowns; it is hard to imagine, as in this case, that these clowns are in the circus 10 or more. This circus must be really huge. But to bring this circus back to you with a visiting clown, for Christ's sake, that's a world thing. If we were to appoint and propose a smart, experienced man, such as myself, be assured that he would give his voice; so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is "Suzana" Beautiful Chimenka. Get Lydia Divac Mirnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u48	Thank you so much for the word. Somehow I cannot help but overcoming the fact that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government we have here today did not receive more than 400 votes in the last parliamentary elections in 2018, only 394; despite having previously held the position of Minister for 12, 13 or even 14 years. The voters said no in the last elections, but of course it is no longer an obstacle for him, and now I would like to become Prime Minister, because it was not yet. However, for a mandate holder, the so-called KUL coalition would have more than obvious support at any given time, only to bring down the current government. And if we were to propose here, I don't know, Jake Racman or Miki Misko, so was Mr Karl Erjavec, because he wanted to run for this position at all. Mr Šarec said nicely: "I can honestly admit that in different situations in LMŠ such support would probably not have been given to Karl Erjavac and would have thought otherwise. But we do not live in normal situations and we must do everything in our power." So everything must be done to bring down this government, a government that is truly doing well. Now you understand that if you can. And of course you do it at all costs. And in doing so, the so-called KUL Coalition uses an epidemic to fight power, you encourage, some Members have even participated in protests, at meetings, even though the epidemic has banned them, in the National Assembly you have thrown masks out of your mouth or carried some clear shields that are not intended for nothing, but at least to protect yourself. And another thing, what's really important, this government didn't invent an epidemic. When that government took over power on 13 March, the warehouses of protective equipment were empty. You didn't do anything, you didn't do anything, you threw a rifle into the corn, and that was what you did. The warehouses were empty and you only agreed that the protective equipment should be delivered by the end of 2020 until 31. 12. 2020. But we know for ourselves what happened last year, and you've known very well for weeks, what's waiting for us, but nothing's done. Instead of doing more in the past few years to build homes for the elderly to build, update, restore hospitals, student homes, you prefer to spend money elsewhere. Of course, those who meant a lot to you, and that's the direction you want to go. Unfortunately, most citizens and citizens of this direction have absolutely nothing but individual privileges. That everything is already very bad, it also shows more and more lies that appear in the media. One such case recently was the fact that the STA published a lie that was then collected by all the media, that the European Commission is not satisfied with the Slovenian recovery plan. It has all been a big lie since the European Commission has not yet addressed any of the Member States' plans, since it has not yet adopted a regulation establishing a mechanism for recovery and resilience. And until this is accepted, it is not possible to make plans in the formal procedure. You are probably more concerned about what will be the focus of this € 10.5 billion last year's European funds. It is right to focus on the development of Slovenia, and you know that this government is working. This government is working for the development of Slovenia, this government is building Slovenia, and you are doing what you want to do is destroy this government. In the fight against the epidemic, we've done a great deal. You didn't support any of the eight PKP packages, I'm sorry. However, they were intended for citizens to maintain their jobs and were urgently needed at a given time. Of course, I support the direction and functioning of this government and the non-trust I absolutely will not support. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Before I go to my debate, I would like to say only two things to my colleague, Pretty Šimenka. First, the government of Marjan Šarc – no dead, government of Janez Janša – 3 thousand 977, date 13. Two, it's over today. And secondly, student homes, at a time when I was running student homes in Maribor – 20 million investments. Just so that, please, they don't know too much about college homes that you might not even see from the inside. Now I'm going to the debate. What does this government really mean? Smiling, mucking, discrediting. This is the modus operandi of this government — everyone and everyone who, of course, does not sneeze or honor the image and work of the great leader. In my debate, I will touch three things – the media, culture and education, because I also somehow cover them on committees. As far as the media is concerned, where, of course, the attack is taking place and the government of Janez Janša is systematically trying to make a financial mistake, disassembly and submit public television, public radio, STA and, of course, all those media that are not, to say the least, under the direct capital control of this party, because, of course, the media is a tool for propaganda where doubt and criticism are not desirable. Even vice versa; doubts and criticism expressed have consequences. For there is a brutal discredit on Twitter at least every day on a running tape, at such a level that I am ashamed of those MPs who tweet it, and of those trolls who tweet it. Let's just drop it. It is paradoxical, however, that we are pleased, in the notes, of course, that the President of the Government is a little more silent and more tweeting. Why? Because then the media also publish or summarize these tweets, bile tweets, and in this way people in Slovenia see the real picture of the man who is leading us. That's the way it is. As we say, what is actually going on in this government? Attacking the public media. The most obvious change is the transformation of the RTV contribution to the so-called media contribution and changes to the appointment of the STA Supervisory Board and the discharge of the Director. Since you have not yet succeeded, you have invented a new trick; and it is that the STA and all public companies, agencies, including parts where it is the founder and only member of the state, join the demographic fund. Bravo. Innovative to disability. Of course it's not because you're transparent because we know where you're going, and because we know what your goal is. But your goal is to control; not just capital, control money, content and, of course, people. And that's what this is all about. The media are concerned with politically motivated intimidation, discipline, restrictions on freedom of press work and editorial policy and, for the fourth time, interference with the autonomy and independence of the public media. You want to polish your image and defile it in a way that the emperor will no longer be naked. Secondly, what is wrong with this government and what happens in culture? There is only one thing about self-employed people in culture, financing or non-financing of film, NGOs, their destruction and human resources cleaning in museums and public institutions, ignoring the professional public. The main and only criterion is that it is yours, regardless of experience, formal conditions, knowledge and competence. If it does not, we replace the members of the world, adjust the terms and – voilà, we have our man; because that is the only goal, only that he is yours. And that's wrong. And we shouldn't have done that. Third time, school. This is also a special story, especially a disturbing one. Longest closed schools, universities in the European Union, distance education, which is by no means the same for everyone and leaves visible consequences already. Whatever else happens, we'll probably talk about it. I hope those consequences are known to anyone. That about the confusing instructions that are changing from today to tomorrow, that the Minister should say something, and then the President of the Government will say something else, and I will not begin to explain it. Our concern is also incompetent, weak and unclear communication, reckless and harmful blocking of the invitation to enroll in universities, changing the conditions for obtaining Zois' scholarships, we have already forgotten that we have already forgotten the idea of equating the general professional diploma, that I am not even talking about changing the conditions for accreditation of higher education institutions. And you fell on the ground, at least as far as schoolchildren and parents are concerned, on basic things, relationships and communication, on the basis. In each of the PKPs, they were set up. Sneakers. Why? For your cymbals, which we then rejected more or less in the opposition. I think you may have accepted even some five amendments of more than 400 that we have tabled in the opposition, and at the same time you are explaining to us about cooperation and how the ugly, evil opposition is destroying this superpower. If I conclude that I will not spend too much time with my colleagues, the LMŠ will not be included in the demolition of state institutions, because this represents the destruction of the country. The LMŠ will not be involved if you barter with human rights, with media independence, with justice and with nature. The LMŠ will not be involved if you threaten public well-being, public education, public health, public services. The LME will also not be included if you weaken the economy, the social state or the stability of public finances. You never have, and you will never have, our silence in dispute. You are not and will not have our blessing for the harmful, for the authoritarian, for the confusing, for the impatient, for the inefficient and for the reckless, because you are destroying our country and thereby destroying the future of our children. Without respect for the Constitution, we are left with only lawlessness, governmental will, an authoritarian state and a society without a future. In LMŠ we call this – no, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get Eva Irgle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. For me, politics is primarily the public use of the mind. And here is not only Aristotle, Socrates, but also the forerunners who said that the most important measure was. In our thinking societies, somehow we cannot afford people, until future generations, to the constitutionality of parliamentary democracy a dangerous government. And unfortunately, this government meets all these qualities, under quotation marks, deep and thickly marinated in the way of South Korean kimchi — arrogantness, vulgarity and anti-intellectualism. This government was unable to resolve quarantine decisions within 11 months and, as a result,, in particular in the workplace, epidemics and pandemics have spread to us. This government has not been able to arrange software for 11 months at NIJS to prevent epidemiologists and epidemiologists from correcting some statistical errors on their hands, as if it were to program the launch on Mars. This government prefers to twist the hands of its own people, and the exchange of these to finally put someone back in the General Hospital Celje, and I don't know what else to do with the onions. Until future generations, schools, not only schools, but also debt; my not half-year-old grandson is heavily indebted, but his children, if ever he has them, are also in charge. 60 years from now, not Janša, not Karl Erjavec, not me, not paying for these poofs. And also this--oh, we give it up and down. [[…]] You're not giving anything, these are poofs, concrete is not the same building progress. You want concrete through your little cousins in particular. I don't want to touch a lot of constitutionality. When I talk to people who go to the Hill, they say, "Do you know what a government meeting looks like?" Hoys is talking, and the rest of the SDS are looking down at Janez, and the other ministers are happy if he doesn't push them. Is this how we will make mental progress in the 21st century? And there you have Dr. Simono Kustec, a regular professor who teaches and analyzes the global governance. Yesterday a 12-year-old girl in Maribor told me that she was coming with me to Parliament today to tell Janša that “Slovenia is miserable because of him”. That's the end of the quote. I had to tell her now that she cannot go to Parliament at the moment, and I say it on her behalf. Yes, I will say this because I don't want Slovenia to be miserable because I don't want to have a government that is deadly to humans, for future generations and for the constitutionality of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. And because I don't want any arrogant vulgar anti-intellectualism. So what was Janša saying today?Oh, my God! I thought I was gonna fall on the ground. Metelkova 6 is responsible for the dead. And it's the same as saying that the Ensemble of the Modrians is guilty because the schools have been closed for so long. This is a clinical diagnosis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle. Get Monica Gregorčič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have listened very closely to the opening presentation by the proponent of a constructive non-trust, and I must say that this has further strengthened my conviction that you are really doing everything you are assigning to us. In psychology, it's called a projection, only that you're doing it consciously and purposefully, which I think is unacceptable and represents the culmination of human manipulation. You and the media have been creating the impression of some kind of unsustainable situation all the time, and the purpose is for people to get scared to get angry, to feel that they're not free to take something away from them all the time. But in fact, respected colleagues and colleagues, and you know it, the painting is the other way around. Despite the difficult situations in which we are in, this coalition is doing its best to help and protect people, both medically and financially. If we take a closer look, we can see that more than 300,000 pensioners have received EUR 135 million in aid when we are talking about the solidarity allowance. The remaining vulnerable groups received 68 million euros, and the economy received about 2 billion euros in aid. And these are the facts and these are the numbers. These are not empty words and empty bubbles. What exactly is your contribution to this epidemic, or what is your contribution to solving this difficult and difficult situation? Your only contribution, and you've done very well today and you're also saying all the time, is that you're using the epidemic shamelessly to fight for power; of course, you've been setting it up for us all along, saying you're doing the projection again. You see her, there's a projection. In fact, you are without content, without a program, we can also see this in the introductory positions, including your new candidate for Prime Minister, you are without solutions. And what's most important is that you're also without people's trust. This shows the exact result that your candidate for Prime Minister has received in the elections. I am sorry that I have to say this repeatedly or that we have to say this, but Mr Erjavec has received 394 votes. I've done one such calculation of what it means for all of Slovenia. About 0.024% of people want to see it on the political scene, 0.024%, and I circled up. So where do you see this all-Slovenian trust in him? Do you realize that you rape people with madness? I'm sorry to have to say this, but this is crazy. This is not normal for some healthy democracy. And because you have nothing, so you have no content, you have no program, you break, you break. You've done a very nice show today, and you've been showing it all along. Break it down with lies, break it with suction. In this National Assembly you are constantly causing chaos and excesses, you are insultingly speaking and then, of course, this offensive speech and this excellence is moving on the streets. You use unions all the time, you use the media, you use NGOs, you use the judiciary. And then you're reading to us, and here we are again in the projection, you're seeing us subjugating all of these subsystems and systems in the country. But unlike you, Your Honor, we want to normalize them. Normalise in accordance with the rule of law and democratic demands and standards. I must say this because I have been a Member for many years and, of course, I have been very closely following this political space, a country for decades, because you have been constantly, more or less in power, a country that has been limping for decades because of your narrow interests and the preservation of privileges, which is the most damaging to people, i.e. citizens and citizens. Unlike you, we want to give them a better life and a faster development. And that's what we've been proving all along this year. This is what people increasingly recognize and realize. The Slovenian Democratic Party was the winner of the elections and, of course, has the confidence of the people. When I was reading the rationale for your constructive mistrust and this vision of your future, a kind of program that I don't think is, but you wrote something down, I also read what the candidate for the Prime Minister didn't say, he obviously missed out on whether he was on purpose, he'll tell himself. You wrote down or said that you want to move away from a private initiative and free market. A departure from a private initiative and a free market. So you kind of want to go back to socialism. And you really think the Slovenians want an experiment like this with you? I don't think so. Do you think the economy wants such an experiment? Ask him, ask the economy. But I'll answer you without asking him that they don't want to. But you just push forward and push forward, at all costs and across all borders. And unlike you, we're building a better Slovenia, a modern, normal country. I'm the only one sorry or sorry we can't build it together because of your hatred. And here I have to say to the end that I would like to have a modern, normal left-hand party in the political space, which would also work with right-hand parties, because this would then bring some quality-balanced political space. And believe me, it would also be healing and beneficial for this country. We are building, and this is what is most important, even in such a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u55	Thank you very much. There is a candidate for Prime Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u56	Thank you. I owe you an explanation. This was the 7th point, where I spoke mainly about investing in the quality and accessibility of public health, education and long-term care systems. Here it was meant that there would be a shift from leaving the implementation of the private initiative and the free market, because I think if we leave health care, education and these services to the free market, I fear that there will not be many people in Slovenia who can handle these costs. The pandemic has clearly demonstrated and proved that public systems need to be strengthened, in particular the public health system and in particular the school public system. And for those who will have enough money, there is no problem that someone can also open a private school or a private clinic. I don't see any problem in this, but for carrier systems, I think we need to keep this public alive.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In recent months, as long as this time frame for investing in a constructive non-confidence lasted, we have been able to meet a number of former politicians in the parliamentary corridors, who somehow hope to awaken their political careers, but today I am particularly surprised by one part of the presentation of the candidate's mandate when he somehow put himself in the role of SMC's lawyer. I would like to tell him in this place, at least in my own name, that SMC does not need a lawyer, we know how to think about our actions, justify them and defend ourselves. And first of all, I'm going to point out our position when we're being attacked all the time, that we've betrayed our constituents. That's what I'm gonna say. After the election of our pre-election promise, we kept our votes to Mr Sharpe, but he betrayed our trust when he unexpectedly gave up. As far as trust is concerned, it must be considered that there is a need for some kind of reciprocity. In recent months, Members of the SMC have received extremely many unscrupulous criticisms, complaints, requests, calls, even rude invitations, pleadings, knocks on the conscience, even spy methods have been used, and I am now referring to those controversial insights into our records, the police records. I would like to point out here that the matter has not yet been cleared or that it is far from okay, but it is true that the information officer has stopped the inspection procedure. Not because I would have found that everything was okay, but we would have to continue the matter in the framework of the debate with the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. However, I would just like to say that because this is allowed, the decision to terminate the procedure is not marked by a degree of secrecy. As far as my records are concerned, I would just like to say that two detailed inspections have been carried out on the seat of the debtor. Once, he had to report in writing. In conclusion of the inspection procedure, the information officer instructed the Ministry of Internal Affairs to scrutinise the legality of the processing of my personal data in detail and to report to it in writing on the findings. Only so much so that everything is not okay in the case as has been selectively reported in the media. I would like to see this press about how today's vote will end, redirecting from SMC to you, respected colleagues in the KUL coalition. It is that you, on the left side of the political field, obviously need some political consolidation, because there are many of you here, some self-proclaimed liberals and social democrats with some kind of play or by proclaiming that you work for people. These are noble ideas, but I doubt your actions follow. The fact is, when you want to get back in power, what leads you to do so. You are driven by the desire to maintain the status quo, after retaining certain certain privileges, which are conditioned by untransparent ownership, with great bureaucracy of the public system, the complexity of procedures with escaped political and cadre-economic ties. And even more frightening is that when you are in power, no project, no reform takes place to the end, there is no effective realization of all that is written in the coalition treaties. Unfortunately, this was also experienced by the SMC when it led the government in 2014–2018, the realization was ultimately very difficult because some partners had until a certain stage of figo in their pocket, according to their own words. The readings from the interpolation are three. We're talking about the flood of democracy, the flood of media freedom. I very much wish, and I can hardly expect this in-depth debate to be held at the level of the European Union, a study on the level of rule of law in the Member States of the European Union and how, indeed, the media are independent and impartial. As for the resignation statement, Mr Hojs's closed envelopes, it is indeed a somewhat maligned observation, which continues to be repeated that he is still illegal or unconstitutional in this function. I would remind myself of the rumors of the parliamentary corridors, this is some kind of public secret of this house, that perhaps Mr Sarec, after he sent a resignation statement to Parliament, wished that envelope to remain closed; but it was already too late. As far as this government's perceptions of foreign policy are concerned. A respected candidate for a term of office, a core Europe, when you were an external minister, was not your priority. In 2015, a declaration on foreign policy orientations was therefore adopted in the Government of Mira Cerar, and then also an external policy strategy to balance at least a little at the declaration level your inclination too much towards the East, specifically Russia. As far as arbitration and those contentious events are concerned and your overly eloquent talk about this, much has already been said, I will not repeat myself. However, I was disturbed by one of your deceptions regarding the announcement of the economic zone in the Adriatic that the Slovenian exit to the open sea was at risk. This was indeed a fraud or you do not know the concept of international maritime law. As far as the latest finding from this constructive mistrust is concerned, it is clear that this government has responded inadequately to the epidemic, especially in the second wave. It is true that the second wave has somehow surprised, to say the least, all European countries or at global level. And on a global level, the intensity of the second wave was a negative surprise, I think for everyone. But our health system has held up. In addition, in all political turbulences, this coalition managed to bring large-scale anti-Korona legislation under the roof. This has given the economy an excellent potential for economic recovery, and many jobs have been saved and saved by a very large number of social pressures. All you're reading to this government is that the security business didn't get the right suppliers. I think it's the greatest sin and this is where it all started. But it is true that many things could be done better, even if we look at today’s experiences, from today’s perspective, from today’s modern - day dimension. But we've seen how the previous president of the government handled this. With empty warehouses, security equipment was ordered for delivery by the end of the year, and he did not even get to the point of his mind to ask even Owl what was going on on on the international market for protective equipment, where wars or mob situations were taking place. Even beyond your role, Sir Erjavec, as a two-time defence minister and a one-time environmental minister. I am sorry, as a signatory to the Patrio Treaty, of course, you have your share of responsibility, but I am more concerned in this second term of yours – the Škerbinc affair was completely unnecessary and politically motivated in my opinion. As environmental minister, we all know you just had to say goodbye to the Court of Auditors' report on the so-called canteens. On the basis of all this, I fear or assess that you somehow overestimated your abilities, but your candidacy is not credible. I am even more surprised or saddened that you are now cooperating with those who helped you overthrow President Desus before a bad year. It's just that it's very humanly difficult to understand. I would, however, like to call for a calming of the situation here today, call on the people of the Republic of Slovenia to take protective measures and to stop the use of hate speech. Maybe just for closure. Today the question was raised by my colleagues, which country we want to live in. I can say for myself – I want to live in a modern, open society where there is mutual respect, a culture of dialogue, where there is a work of value, where the economy is the bearer of development, where young people have the opportunity to develop all their potentials, where older people can enjoy the fruits of their work and the vulnerable groups are taken care of through a just social system. And to all of this we are much closer to this coalition than to the so-called KUL coalition. However, I do not want to live in a country which, according to my assessment of the KUL coalition, or also you as its mandate holder somehow specialises, where it only takes care of our own, where there is somehow a bureaucratic maze, where the status quo corresponds to some transitional elites and networks of power with some invisible but still powerful informal connections between people, businesses and power. This, of course, requires money and connections in state-owned companies, in public institutions and also in the media. However, media power is needed to create or maintain artificially for decades this apparent conflict to the left and right, but according to the principle of division and rule – the divide et impera. I am responsibly saying that the KUL coalition is not in the interest of citizens and this country; however, it is in the interest of some capital-political media connections, which very much wish that changes do not occur to them that they are being driven by the powers that are now falling out of their hands by increasing unrest and therefore growing intolerance, including inappropriate rhetoric. In particular, they are concerned that members of the KUL coalition or their supporters want to make their political opponents socially unacceptable with truly inappropriate labels, such as radicals, autocratics, liberals, collaborators, even fascists. I'm really afraid that in this kind of agony, voices after regaining power are actually becoming like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, representative of the proposaler Jani Möderndorfer, as well as candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, took the floor. The first member shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u60	I really have to congratulate my colleague Monica, as much one hatred as she's now poured out in that, in fact, it's not that weird anymore. What's weirder is that in the meantime, you wish there wasn't this hatred. That's incomprehensible. A kloft across the street, every one who comes in just one second opposite, despises it, puts it to nothing, puts it into a lie, underestimates it; and then says – but today I want this hatred to end. More. He tells the candidate how you can work with those who used to work against you. But no, hate ends today. And I don't know if we're schizophrenics, or if I'm wrong to see in this room what's going on. My colleague Monica, I'm definitely sure today that you missed a client, you should be sitting there, a little further in that bench, still a little further because they're more used to it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But I have to say, I'm sorry, but now I'm gonna talk, and then you sign up for the word and you say whatever you want. However, I must say that she actually cut herself out when she said that there was virtually nothing we could have done in the previous term because someone was hitchhiking, blocking, and there were no reforms and so on. My colleague Monica, I really don't know why we're still sitting in the National Assembly if there's nothing we can do. But I'm going to say another thing that's more important than that because this debate has really been depressed. Today you have all come forward, or most of you have read that Mr Karl Erjavec has no support and that he did not have any votes in the elections. On a constructive mystery in the first, first, was elected Mr. Bajuk, who flew in from another country, had no apartment here, lived at the beginning of the hotel. No Slovenian elected him anywhere, and no citizen was elected by acclamation, received the necessary votes and was the Prime Minister of the Government. Why didn't you say that man didn't have the support of the Slovenians? You won't believe that one of Dr. Janez Drnovšek's top government presidents didn't have one vote in the elections here to become Prime Minister, but in the first place he won the constructive mistrust and then ruled for a long time and also did something good. Where are these heroes now who are talking about having some prior support first in the elections and then can become Prime Minister?Oh, my God! Have the same vats for all candidates, not just ours, for yours. What's important about this whole story, when you say that we were really a little surprised, said colleague Monica, we were a little surprised by this second wave, but in an apology, because all the countries were surprised. Sorry, the virus has surprised the whole world. One of them happened in the first wave. And those who happened to them in the first wave were more excused than those who happened to them in the second wave, because we already knew in the first wave what awaited us. No offense, colleague Monica. You've been asleep for three months. Sleep, you didn't do anything. You went on vacation and thought it would all be over and we were out of the main. Now, the fact that we're not going to say anything again empty, just like some people like you do. The expert group of experts that you have appointed, not us, you have solved ours, of course, has already made her very clear as early as 9 June 2020, that things are getting tougher and that certain things need to be moved. They warned of the establishment of red zones. Nothing happened. Nothing at all! The month of June, July, only at the end of August did Minister Gantar warn that there is a need to work with regional coordinators to establish some kind of assistance for homes to establish red zones outside these homes. That was the first step that was ever taken. There was still joy in going on vacations. The Prime Minister of Croatia and the Prime Minister of Slovenia met and talked, but the border did not close because they said that it was necessary to wait until July and August for the Slovenians to rest and gather everything that could be done in Croatia, as far as the virus is concerned. That's what it was all about. Let's get to the facts. On 28 September, the Minister of Labour visited Lithuania and Domžale on his working visit and said very clearly and clearly that there would be no additional measures, sufficient measures from May. Only 14 days later, on October 12th, at a meeting of the section, he orders and asks the Ministry of Health to take new measures in the so-called temperature measurement; and proposed mandatory testing of all employees in the homes. What happened? Nothing happened. This government didn't accept anything because she was asleep because she was waiting. And don't tell me this happened to everyone. Who's revealing this? Records of the section which are publicly available and published; and exactly who has proposed is known. This government still had no idea what, maybe how to clean up swimming pools in Croatia, I don't know what Kacin was saying. That's what the government was talking about. Why didn't you, when they proposed mandatory testing, start getting quick tests? No, because you were waiting for something. I don't know who you were waiting for. Austria, Slovakia, they've all had quick tests. We didn't have any. That's the facts. Then, miraculously in December, in one day in practice, we made a call, and we bought a lousy quick test, which, one month later, will change the government's action so that the effect of a positive rapid test will not actually apply, because it will then have to be confirmed by a simple classical test, which is significantly more reliable. So don't tell me you did anything because you didn't because you're responsible. In October, November and December, practically every day for one bus dead people. This is your responsibility, which you now want to pack in a cellophane and do what you do, with a famous sentence – we work for people, it's for people. Then why do people die? I'm sure it's the virus, and I'm sure someone would have died because they couldn't help him. But I am sure that today this number could be much smaller if timely measures were much earlier. Well, what else happened then? On 30 October, the expert group draws attention to the seriousness of the testing to be started with November 1st, the minutes clearly state – testing should be started on November 1st. When did we start testing? Five weeks later, five weeks. That's the facts. What you've been doing for five weeks, I don't know. You've made a call in one day, but what have you been doing these five weeks? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, colleague Monica, that I have to tell you, but the one who should be sitting there is not, and I have to tell someone who is most responsible for this. The problem in this society is, especially in this government, especially in this government, because some do not understand that they are not only ministers, but they are also members of the government and have a double function. And just because you're a minister in the field of agriculture doesn't mean you're not responsible for the consequences that happen at the Ministry of Health. And it is a problem of this society because some ministers look away and say – I have this part around, I do this, I do this well, because you have to understand, this Janša, because it is really impossible, but we work within that good and we fight and I don't know what else. That's not how it works. I'm sorry. It's the whole government's responsibility. Even if he does not vote, he is responsible because he did not vote because he made it possible and in fact agreed and he is in favour. This government has had more written meetings than regular meetings. Don't tell me the minister knew what he was voting on. The next day he read in the paper why he was in favour, he didn't even know what he was voting for. And he was horrified, and looked down at the ground, and pressed his head in the sand, because he was embarrassed. But all these ministers will have to bear responsibility someday. The President of the Government is still the Minister of Health, but he is also the Minister of Public Administration, he is the Minister for I do not know what else; he decides everything. Do you have any idea how many controls in nursing homes he did in hospitals between March and September? 15 controls between March and September. I repeat, 15 controls. Do you know how many controls he did later, between October 19th and 25th, it's only in six days? 141 criminal controls and charged EUR 68 000 400. Why am I saying this? Because of the 15 controls he has made from March to September, he has made only 8 controls out of 102 homes for older citizens. And only one measure was taken in Ljutomer. There's only one measure of transport because they took the deceased wrong, and there's some nonsense. And I'm talking about a health inspector who should be watching everything else. And he did the rest of his surveillance at the hospitals. We all know the inspectors aren't enough, and they've been saying they're understaffed, and I don't know what else, but then they've been doing crazy controls. It's a matter of organization. And this inspectorate would show a lot so that the government could act on time to see what was actually wrong. But someone is responsible for this inspectorate. What is important is that, at the time, the President of the Health and Social Protection Union of Slovenia warned that, in fact, when they found out everything was going wrong, at the end of September, they began looking for the responsible ones who were to blame. Who's to blame. Today, it is easier for us to understand why John Janša kept on shouting that everyone else was to blame, except him and his government, because they were worthy because they were working hard. Today he boasted I don't know who in his debate that this Minister of Labour was the first to start working at home and that I don't know what he's going to do. Sorry, we have agreed in this country that we will no longer work at home, but that we will be generously financing new homes with concessions and that we will unite to start making homes. And we got 14 new homes at the time when you say no one was built. Another extra lie from Janez Janša. 14 home for the elderly. I'm sorry, there's an investment in a home, and then there's the financing at home. And what's more expensive? Of course, it's more expensive to finance this at home. And this concession, no private person in Slovenia can ride home for the elderly without a concession, because it is not financially paid because it will not survive. Today we have 102 at home, 102. We also have two special security centers. And more importantly, if we say we need about 14,000 more, I think there's another 12,000 300 needs to somehow meet the needs of homes right now, you know how many homes that means? Has anyone calculated it? If we have a 150-bed standard, that means 81 new homes. Not this government, not the next ten governments, will be able to build so many houses. That is why we decided ten years ago that something else must be done, because otherwise we will have the most home to the number of inhabitants or citizens of the world. Long-term care needs to be changed and clearly defined. Why do you all live in the illusion that everyone wants to live in a house? One of them wants to be home, one of them wants to be in smaller communities. This is what I'm waiting for this minister to bring in a day and we'll start talking, not investing in a home. Yeah, well, if he thinks he's gonna do it, but we're not gonna do anything about that one house. Needs and problems will remain. And that is why this government is working all the way wrong because it comes from some other concepts that this country has never adopted or adopted any strategy in this direction in the way that you are now leading it. I'm sure you don't. And that's what the numbers say. When my colleague Eva Irgle was talking about privatisation, I'm sorry, we've grown into this childish madness, and I don't know what else you're talking about when you're talking about wanting to go to socialism. No one imagines in this hall that you would like to have socialism here. Stop running some fairy tales for the kids. There's no limit to imagination here. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I say it all the way? However, it is a fact that we must protect the public interest. That's something else, my dears. Each country shall decide what is in its public interest. And over what is in the public interest, of course, the state must have control in such or other ways. And that's a significant difference from what we're saying. Labelling, colleague Monica, individuals for some self-proclaimed, self-indulgent, and I don't know what else, but this, colleague Monica, is the least I expected of you. Given that a person, according to the standards of some values, some standards, a decent lady, a Christian woman, does not deserve such a way of communicating in this Chamber and at the same time call for a dialogue. I understand that John Janša has been doing this for 30 years, deceiving, lying, and bringing people around. She's playing nice, nice, kind gentleman who's polite, and I don't know what else. Read his tweets. I have not seen the lower, more shameless and, according to the communication, from any Prime Minister, except which Trump and what self-proclaimed country where there is some highway that has gone mad and has gone to the end. Then he comes back here and keeps his hands together. Sorry, we don't buy this facade anymore. And people don't buy it anymore because they see it for miles. And that, of course, must be defended. And I'm sorry, I'm telling you today, Janez Janša is a danger to Slovenian society. Dangerous. Because he said before that he doesn't work for another republic, he defends the first republic. This republic has never been created on its own standard, that's the problem. And you know where he proves it? By violating the Constitution, by violating human rights, the first thing that happened when he became Prime Minister began to break down the repressive body. He doesn't like the D.A.'s office, he doesn't like the N.P.U. Director. Why? Because we need to take a quick look at what this NPU is actually investigating. You, my colleague Monica, please don't become another Horvat. Horvath once lied and made up, and it proved to him that it wasn't true, and now you're repeating a story, even though you haven't developed it to this point. But these are the facts. The fact is that when we stop believing in the bodies that are set up with the Constitution and with our social agreement and order, and we start to break them down and transform them, that means some other way of life. And I'm sorry, this is what Janez Janša wants – the beginning of a new era of his own measure. You're all talking about standards, but, I'm sorry, your standard and my standard can be different. Can we allow diversity in this Slovenia? Do we respect this diversity? Sorry, no. If someone, even the president of the government, tells me we're throwing away money on Metelk 6. He doesn't even know what's on Metelkova 6. Does he even know how many people go there, who runs the programs? What programs have already helped many people. Many, generations that are not even on Metelkov 6 today, have grown up on Metelkov 6, and many of these people are now taking on even important positions and working for the benefit of this society. What's more, he marks them as spending and carrying a virus around. It doesn't hurt me, as long as Janez Janša only tells me because I can resist him. And I can tell him he's lying because he does it all the time. But to do it with the citizens, just because he's in a position of power; terrible. We read in the media where money flows in the SDS and the like and close to it. And where all the strong influence from Hungary would like to spread in the Slovenian space – in the area of economy, banking, in the field of media, in the field of transport. I'm sorry, I'm telling you out loud, I don't want to have any Hungarian influence in the Slovenian space. And this is where we're talking about public interest. And once we lose the banking system in this area, you know what Hungarians want – influence in banks. And those who have influence in banks also have money and influence on development. And when you influence development, you control people. And when you control people, you have everything in your hands. And it's dangerous doing exactly what this government is doing, no one else. This government allows this to continue. Monica, I apologize in advance if I've been anywhere too harsh with you. But in the final stages, I also speak for the people. Sometimes you have to not only say it because democracy is not what you want to say, but in the end you have to answer for what you say; and I hope to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u61	Thank you very much. She's got a replica of Monica Gregorčič. She signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jani, in several segments, I think he misunderstood me, but I don't blame him for his sharpness, we were even a party colleague, because we know each other well, we know each other's thinking. But I understand he's upset because I somehow set the mirror for their KUL coalition. But I will not go into further explanations because I have too little time and I must leave it to my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am replicating Mrs Monica Gregorčič to what she used to say, because apparently my colleague didn't understand me very well when I was talking about where LMŠ would never participate. But she was talking about some rumors in the halls, about how Marjan Sarec wanted to withdraw his resignation statement. It must be said that this is a simple lie, because for LMŠ the derogation means a derogation. I will also give you proof of this claim, this is the resignation of the Member for the sandwich. However, the Minister of the Government is in writing, if it is in writing, I do not know, but he has certainly given up in writing irrevocably. And he's still here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u65	Thank you very much. There is a candidate for Prime Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to make some clarifications because I was summoned by Ambassador Monica Gregorčič. I'd like to live in a normal country, too, so I've landed on this candidacy and I'll wear it with honor. What will be the outcome will depend on you anyway, what country you want, what Slovenia, what future. But I certainly don’t want the country when you wake up in the morning and see a sign on your door — a rat. This is certainly not the country we want, not the one, not the other, not the right half, not the left half, not the middle. But we want a country where everyone will have a perspective. Therefore, the words spoken in the National Assembly, which are expressed in a policy expressed through Twitter and other means, have a particular weight. I am sure that the one who wrote the inscription of a rat, or now the last prime minister in Rožnik, where we have a picture of the President of New Slovenia, that these are mainly the consequences of this impatient speech, this resentment encourages people to become one. It is therefore very important that we set an example in this national assembly, the example set by the current Prime Minister of the Government, the example set by individual political parties. And don't be fooled if people react the wrong way they shouldn't. I must say, as a candidate for a mandate holder, I do not understand if we have now opened the municipal borders, the schoolchildren are going to school, thank God, it has been a year, there have been schoolchildren, students, students at home. Let us ask ourselves what this means for their social development, for their education, for their youth, for what they have been deprived of. I see some of you sighed because I said one year. Look, from March ahead, there was something else going on between them, and then there was summer vacation, and there was practically no real lesson in the fall. And I'm not gonna argue here whether it's one year or ten months. Every month, every week, every day when schoolchildren are home, students, students, it's too much. And why do we still have a curfew? I would understand that you have a curfew in Paris because nightlife is happening. What could possibly be in the Occurrence? Why is there a curfew? Or in Ljubljana, why a curfew? It feels like some kind of pressure, like some kind of interference with their freedom, even though it's in line with the law. But is this measure necessary, necessary? It's not. And if this government listens professionally, we know what experts in this area have said that this curfew has no effect, these restrictions between the municipalities have no real effect. We are a small country, a country of one region could say, if I compare it to France, Italy, Spain. Apparently, people get one unwelcome feeling of wanting to create some authoritarianism here, where one place decides how life will go, when kindergartens will be open, when they will be closed, then one day we open the ski resort, the next day we close up, and so on. However, the greatest absurdity is that the government itself does not respect these measures, in particular the ministers. We've seen them walk along the southern border, see how some taverns are opening up, see how someone is going to control the Croatian border police. And what impression should people have?Oh, my God! And if I keep talking about Russia, I keep hearing about it. It's true, I've been an outside minister for seven years, but I've always taken care of a balanced relationship. Why? Because the Slovenian economy also depends on the Russian market. We probably don't have to explain in particular why we had this relationship so developed. I was co-chair of the mixed economic commission between Slovenia and the Russian Federation. There was a custom to meet twice a year, once in Slovenia, once in Russia. Economic delegations have always been involved. And you know that some key companies in Slovenia, which employ several thousand people, here is not about a few tens, 50s, let's say I mention Krka and some other companies; but I won't have them tell me that I'm promoting some brand, and that was the only moment. But believe me, I could have had a very good relationship with the United States of America; and I did. We had a very good, open relationship with all the secretaries of state, but for something more, if you wanted an official meeting, there had to always be a bigger deal in between. Whether it was the acquisition of military equipment or other equipment, if it were possible to speed up the construction of the second block, and if the Americans were the ones to build this second block, I am sure that not only the foreign minister, including the President of the Government, including the President of the Republic, would also be the Minister of Infrastructure; all ministers would be very welcome. We've seen this in the case of 5G technology. How quickly did Secretary of State Mike Pompeo get here? You think he came because there's now a new right-centre government here, and they've been screaming in the U.S. that now we have a government with similar values. No, it was just business. As for arbitration, once again, you know that we had a human referendum around arbitration, that it was very tight. SDS, New Slovenia failed to convince our people that the arbitration procedure was not a good solution, but people wanted a solution and decided to resolve it through arbitration. And when there was some flaw in the process itself, the unauthorised communication between the arbitrator and the authorising officer wanted to be eliminated. And it is sad that, for example, part of Slovenian policy would be very pleased that the arbitral tribunal would say – this is such a violation that we stop the arbitration procedure and it is no longer there. But we, together with distinguished world lawyers under the leadership of Alan Pele, were able to convince the Court of Arbitration in The Hague. I performed there in English, although I always listen to how weak my English is, and convinced that this procedure continues, that the infringement is not of such a nature that the arbitration should be annulled. And what is the result of this arbitration procedure? For the first time, we have an international legal act that determines where the border between Slovenia and Croatia is, especially at sea, and how Slovenia has open access to the sea. And I'm just worried because now it's not as much as it was in my day when I said something else about stopping Croatian appetites, because all the time it was pressure from Croatia to fail this thing, and sometimes it was necessary to come out in public because they also launched inaccurate and false information; it was this government that decided on a silent diplomacy. And I respect that this is also one of the instruments of foreign policy, but I fear that it will not happen that we remain silent and that we will wipe ourselves under our noses as far as access to the open sea is concerned. Because we have no other valid document, such as an arbitral decision. And if you don't believe me, then ask the President of the Republic who is the father of this arbitration that favors your government. I am sure he will not disinform you, but he will tell you why an arbitral decision is an important document if we ever want to settle the border between Slovenia and Croatia. With regard to the purchase of medical equipment in springtime. I've never done this before. I made no statement except for the Court of Auditors' comment. And that's especially because I have my own experience. For a minor matter, I was dismissed in this National Assembly as Minister of Environment and Space. Because of the kants, I'm just gonna say it. But here, what we know, what we can see on Target, what was said there, what we could hear on the phone, I'm afraid it's not such a minor matter. And I can assume that it will be very difficult for the Court of Auditors to say, but I don't want to prejudge that the procedures for purchasing masks and respirators in the spring are excellent, transparent, 100%. I don't believe that, given my own experience, I just don't believe it. But I don't get involved in this because I don't care either, because it's going to be a matter of organ procedures. We know that KPK has initiated 21 procedures against eight officials, and there is likely to be more. And if they're all forgiven and all right. I, too, was forgiven in the Patricia case that you mentioned again. That's where I proved my innocence. Once again, I would never sign this contract if I knew what I know today. And there's nothing wrong with that, either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Get Rudy Bear ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Members of the Left in this National Assembly are sitting with a mandate and with a programme of socialist reform of society, transitions to democratic ecological socialism. However, in recent times you probably have not heard us talk about a solidarity economy and about a social transition to climate justice, because we must keep busy day by day with what the government of Janez Janša is doing. And from day to day he goes from bad to worse: from day to day there is hurt. The result is that we are at the top of the death rate in the world due to the covida-19 epidemic. The left share of these deaths, which ranges between 3 and 4 thousand in absolute numbers, can be attributed to the situation in the homes of older citizens. These deaths are not, say, a natural consequence of the covida-19 epidemic. They are directly linked to the conduct or absence of the government of Janez Janša. In Levica, we had already warned, begged, begged, suggested that the elderly in nursing homes should be transferred to dislocated wards or that hospital care be provided where the hospital is located. This has not grown on our herb, our initiatives have been related to the wishes and needs of the community of social security institutions and working groups of nurses, nurses and others working in these homes. And all our initiatives, requests and warnings were against the wall. Then came the summer, the government of Janez Janša put the work aside, even though it had virtually daily warned us to prepare for the second wave to prepare ourselves as it did not. And then a tragic death tax in the homes of older citizens really started to grow, and we didn't get dislocated departments until we were deep in the epidemic. These deaths were inevitable, but they could have been renounced if they had listened to us in the government. However, they did not wish us or were unable to carry out the basic establishment of dislocated departments, as they were and are obviously still unable to carry out the basic accounting operation in order to provide the necessary funds for the payment of staff allowances in due time to the homes of older citizens. Since the first wave, these funds have been delayed for months, and there is no doubt that the current situation is the same. After all, the government of Janez Janša preferred not to raise the minimum wage for health - care workers but to reward them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Get Jure Ferjan ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. On January 11th, 2021, a purely ordinary winter day could be hated in an epidemic situation, but it was not such a normal day. It was a day that somehow symbolizes the functioning of this government, which is why many citizens and citizens of Slovenia do not only expect to leave, but also requires its departure. Especially sad was this January 11th, as we exceeded a tragic milestone of 3,000 deaths due to the epidemic. Well, now we're practically on a new, even more tragic milestone – 4,000 deaths. And all this time, we've been experiencing the epidemic by the government, the ruling coalition, one single accusation, underappreciating, squaring citizens, politics, the media, who is more responsible for these tragic numbers. There has been a lot of talk here today about hatred, and we are clowns of Disney cartoons, but above all, we, the supporters of the coalition, KUL, hate the opposition. But what is the expression of hatred? Isn't that what your Prime Minister, your Prime Minister, writes, for example: “The wild KUL coalition for the spread of the virus abuses even children”. What is this other than the perfect expression of hatred and more, even more; even the abuse of children for political purposes. But he can go further than the President of the Government, and he can also very much manipulate, not only insult, but also manipulate. And it writes – KUL coalition activists and RTV Slovenia journalists organized gatherings across all Slovenia and after 13 days more infections than a week ago. Even so far, the President of the Government, who is currently a health minister, will already know what the Incubation Age is and will manipulate the Incubation Age of the virus. It stretches her out for 13 days just to find the culprits. Just to find the culprits. And all he's really into is that, and of course he's alive, he's fueled by that feeling. Well, he doesn't write any more, and then his TV comes back with a twist. Of course, the opposition and the media have made a decisive contribution to the growth of the disease. Sharchev LMŠ will be recorded in history as a destructive force to spread the virus. You see, it's a shameless, shameless use of an epidemic to deal with the opposition, the media, NGOs, actually with the nation. I don't know who else did it. But then they ran out of them slowly, and I know, I remember this tweet that the Prime Minister wrote. In the morning, he asked who would be the main culprit for the infections today. And then, of course, she snuggled like a prize game. You see, it's a shameless use of the epidemic. But if I come back on January 11th. On 11 January, on this typical day of the Slovenian government, what did the President of the Government do? He was dealing with the problem of ending Donald Trump's Twitter account. That was his main occupation that day. But it is true that on January 11 this government also received an earring and a foreign earring. From Brussels, for example, for the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency. On that day, on 11 January, the Constitutional Court struck the fingers of a self-sufficient defence minister and halted the implementation of his enforced military investment law. Of course, what did the Constitutional Court experience? The attack, with the testimony of the Prime Minister, to engage in the fight against the epidemic and to block the purchase of a transport aircraft with which we will ride the vaccine. The functioning of the rule of law for the President of the Government is an unnecessary disturbance, as is the case with the Interior Minister, who has resigned irrevocably, and is still here. The police statement, which began on January 11th, gave him the opportunity to put a repressive apparatus almost definitively through the riot within the police force. And this day, the Minister of Environment silently practically definitively excluded environmentalists from environmental procedures. This mosaic of January 11 is surrounded by the loss of the position of a judge who dared to criticize Janez Janša somewhere on Facebook. But when one thinks that it will not go any deeper, the SDS party heads the hospital — the day later that I am correct, not January 11 — in Slovenj Gradac, the institution that saves lives, the institution that saves lives, sets up a person who writes primitives on social networks, which is not on the walls of railway stations, and wants people dead. The head of an institution that's supposed to save lives wants people dead. And I gave only a few crumbs from the very day of this government's mandate. And the day is the same. And it's like that, now that I've counted it right, it's been 339 too many. Too much. And there is no room in politics for hatred and politics to hate. But how bitter and full of hatred must a man, a politician, to his political rivals, of course he considers them enemies, to be undertakers. In these tragic times in Slovenia, when we talk about thousands of deaths due to the epidemic, he intertwines with the undertakers. Sad, really sad. We will somehow control the epidemic despite the tax, but how we will counter this epidemic of fear, the hatred that this authority has sown. I wonder how I'm gonna stand up to that. It's only one way that this government can go away and come back, it's going to be hard, but it's going to be hard to get back to normal, because things are so imported that it's going to be hard to get back to normal. And whoever sees all this, whoever sees all this and understands this hatred, the hatred that is actually transmitted through the President of the Government and into part of Slovenian politics, whoever understands it and feels it, cannot really have any problems in supporting the non-trust of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Get Tadey Shuštar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! One of the elements available to the opposition is constructive distrust. Whether this is a work that we have witnessed in recent months during the epidemic, whether national or destructive, I leave it to every individual to their discretion. Now to the blanks in this KUL document. Firstly, you say a violation of the fundamental principles of constitutional regulation. Since the picture says more than a thousand words, and in this case too, let us take a look at your hate speech or hate speech. This is what you are doing; today I have somehow understood in the debate that a number of people have gone back a little, as if they knew what you have done wrong in the past. Look at the hate speech you're making. And you are the one who is respected and respected to overthrow the government, to disrupt measures and to disrupt public health. It's a rumor of hatred you're making. And that's how you help the government by infecting the epidemic; on the contrary, without a mask. Today, Mr Möderndorfer has shared his advice, but it is the one who has troubled wearing the mask and so on. So much for integrity, so much for giving advice, you might say. Slovenian media, some you call independent, report, even inspire, encourage. The Slovenian judiciary says – oh, it's nothing but freedom of speech. And they threaten, threaten Members and Members, threaten Ministers and Ministers and threaten the President of the Government, even death threats. Earlier, Mr Erjavec had said that this was cruel, primitive, unkind. Yes, that's right - cruel, primitive, unkind, only the address book was wrong, to whom he directed these words. Respected and respected, while you break down, this government works, builds and, most importantly, helps people. Before I go any further, we can't even forget that. Mr Erjavec said today that these are generally accepted values, obviously KUL. Moreover, Mr Šarec, former Prime Minister of the Government, said we have not yet spent everything. So you haven't spent everything yet. What's next? Is that a threat, a warning, or is that both? Secondly, Slovenia's reputation in the European Union, in the world. Your mouth is full of nuclear states. I personally set more examples and actions than words, so as to look at the actions of Mr Erjavac when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs. Meeting with the Foreign Minister of Russia, the Foreign Minister of Turkey, the Foreign Minister of Kosovo. Yes, Your Honor, the current foreign policy implemented by Dr. Ange Logar is a departure from these core countries of Europe. That's right. Look at Dr. Logar's activities in less than a year. Among other things, the meeting with the Secretary of State of the United States, the French Foreign Minister, the German Foreign Minister, after 2007 also a bilateral meeting with the Italian Foreign Minister and could also be listed. I will stress, however, the fact that Prime Minister Janez Janša, with his knowledge, experience and also, of course, has achieved the initiative that the 27 Member States have been united in terms of aid after the covida-19 pandemic, a severe thousand 800 billion. Of this, Mr Janša has negotiated historic € 10.5 billion for Slovenia. Respected and respected, while you are overthrowing, this government builds. And this government puts our country back on a so-called diplomatic map. Third time, the covida-19 epidemic, regarding health care. Compared to the first wave, this government has increased its health capacity by ten times. I'm not going to talk about the rifle in the corn, about jumping into an empty pool, and also about empty warehouses not left by the government, which you were in, Mr. Erjavec. And you're manipulating the data, we already know that. We're the eighth oldest population in the world. And when we talk about the rate of mortality among those who have become ill with covido-19, Slovenia is among the lowest in Europe, which means that the Slovenian health system has not fallen down, although it is not the best in Europe, in the European Union; it works relatively well. Eight anti-Korona packages were adopted by this government coalition at the initiative of the government. Eight anti-korona packages, both by number of beneficiaries and by multi-billion financial weight, are one of the best in the European Union in the world. Most importantly, the measures are in place. We helped people, we helped the economy. And even if we were in debt at that time, we were in debt at significantly more favourable rates, and we gave money to people, we gave money to the economy. And not as Mrs. Alenka Bratusek used to say when he went to the banks and certain privileged people. And what is now directly related to what we are talking about, what this government has done for pensioners in less than a year. More than 300,000 pensioners with the lowest pensions received two solidarity allowances totalling €260 and €460 and €600. There has been an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2 % and regular harmonisation of pensions of 3,2 %. Pensioners also received a 200-euro tourist voucher, renewable by the end of the current year, and could also list it. And you, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, although you have made a commitment, not to us, your members, your Members, to your party, that you will not leave this government, which works well, which also works for the pensioners, but you have made a request, ultimatim – Desus must from the government coalition. So, Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavec, you can say whatever you want, but I don't believe you. You say you came to consolidate Desus, even your members say you came to Desus, I will not say because we all know well; and I will not, interestingly, say quite a few words today, but the contents nothing. [[…]] You've got 20 minutes left, and you haven't said anything about the contents. But you boasted, just as you did before the last national elections, that you would not cooperate with others, with those who might think a little differently than you. That's what you've been bragging about. And the voters awarded you or punished you in 2018, you received 394 votes, Mr. Erjavec. And speaking of trust, Sir Karl Viktor Erjavec, we have run in the same constituency. First constituency, seventh constituency of the Municipality of Tržič, for the first time, you as a long-standing current minister and long-standing president of the parliamentary party. And you got a thousand 396 votes less than me, a thousand 396 votes less than me, or 20.99 percentage points less than me. Allow me to make a few phone calls. A few months later, there were local elections. That's when our list got a thousand and 109 votes. You, Mr. Erjavec, 394. One more call. My wife received 3,000 955 votes more than you, Mr. Erjavec. So together we have 4 thousand 349 votes. What would all of you want to be if we had so many votes? And in this place, please, my respectable fellows, my wife is very cool, but don't call her tomorrow to be your new candidate for the term, because she's not for the KUL. Okay? And another mecca, the current Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, received 7,000 20 votes, Mr Karl Erjavec 394. So the current Prime Minister of the Government won almost eighteen times the votes of the electorate and electorate as Karl Erjavec. And if you, Mr Erjavec, have recently gone out of politics, perhaps even with your head raised up, for the first time, what you do this time with this tragic smile of your own, I think your renaissance will be from Slovenian politics, which I believe will be relatively soon, slightly different and will be with your head tilted, but this is your problem. Respected and respected, according to the above, this is not a constructive distrust for me, but an unconstructive hopelessness. Farsa, for you are breaking down, and this government is under the guidance of John Jansa. I therefore look forward to today's vote, and I look forward to the continuation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Janez Janša, of its work for the good of the people, for the good of our country, for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of our beautiful homeland of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u73	Reploco has Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u74	Thank you very much. When I spoke about the capabilities and the adequacy of the various equipment, it was likely that Comrade Ferjan had overheard or did not understand certain facts. If you take one patient and give it to another, then you didn't increase anything, you just re-analysed it. And if you buy inappropriately, perhaps even unnecessary medical equipment, such as those used to be dispensers, is the same for toilet paper masks, then you haven't done much, except to help your business friends. You borrowed money. We don't know where he went yet. Investigators will decide. And these empty warehouses are enough, and what was the plan to be filled by the end of the year? There is absolutely nothing clear to you about how the Department of Trade Reserves works. It operates on the basis of a five-year plan that is valid for 5 years and operates on the basis of a one-year plan that changes every time and applies until the end of the year. However, what you have finally enjoyed, Comrade Ferjan, regarding your youth, is unworthy of the cultural position; the mockery, contemptuous and completely disregards that intergenerational cultural attitude that every youth in this country should have in this country, even to older people, whether sitting in this hall or elsewhere. Show me, please, what graffiti did I sign if you're already throwing it in my face. Above all, read the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, which is Janism, with a small beginning, and what Janša is, with a large beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Montenegro, if you have any problems, you can come to the procedural proposal. Because you keep turning around. If anyone has a problem with a procedural proposal, please, I can't hear you like this when you yell at each other. If you don't mind, we'll proceed with the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Ferryan, yes, because I've been waiting for you, and you haven't responded. Mr Ferrjan has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u76	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. I would ask you to warn our fellow Member that this was not a replica. I don't know where you understand small and large beginners; it's obviously a rumor of hatred that KUL advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u77	Mr Ferrjan, in my view, your procedural proposal was unnecessary because the replica was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Member assessed that he was misunderstood in his debate, and he explained to you what he felt was necessary to clarify further. We continue the debate. Mrs. Tadeja Shuštar has the floor. But get ready as the next mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. This government is doing well, and it has so many achievements that if you wanted to talk to everyone, you would run out of time. However, this opposition is closing its eyes and does not want to see these achievements. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer used to send a colleague, Moniko Gregorčič, to the other end of the National Assembly, but you could tell from your extensive experience how it is when you whistle at your electorate and replace your client. At times, a colleague Jani Möderndorfer objected to Minister Gantar because he was a member of this government. Today, when Mr Gantar is on the same side as your candidate for Prime Minister, I believe that you will be happy to support the purchase of rapid tests by Majbert Pharma. They were just approved by the minister of the party from which your candidate for Prime Minister of the Government came and replaced the team in the meantime. I believe that, given your rich experience in political misconduct, it will not be difficult for you to understand this situation. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Janez Cigler, at the time of his term of office, highlighted his priorities for the ministry, i.e. integrated care for older people, a responsive labour market and a transparent system of social and family transfers. The first priority was to ensure adequate care for the elderly. From the first day of its term of office, the Minister shall be actively involved in the preparation of appropriate measures and the supervision of their implementation. He is in direct contact with the authorities and guardians at home for the elderly, and he is also the first district minister to visit some institutions and homes for the elderly after decades. The problems of providing care for the elderly only during the time of our Minister, Janez Cigler King, are five times more resources, public and European, than any other government since 2008, which is beautifully illustrated in this chart. For day centres and temporary accommodation for older people, which will be built all over Slovenia, 21 million euros and a half are awarded on the basis of a public invitation to tender. The energy rehabilitation of the pre-delayed two homes for the elderly of 850,000 euros will be completed, almost three times the amount earmarked for the DSOs in 2016. As a result of the increased domestic protection needs of the elderly, the Ministry has accelerated activities to provide additional capacity in the homes for older people by granting concessions. Outside there is a public tender for the award of concessions for an estimated thousand 100 cities. The key objective is to provide additional capacity in nursing homes as soon as possible due to increased domestic protection needs. Along with the old concessions, the Ministry of Labour, together with the Ministry of Health, will provide a thousand 280 concessions. The concession must start by 31. 12. 2022 and will be granted for a fixed period of 40 years with the possibility of an extension. For the construction of five new homes for the elderly and the completion of two existing homes, a total of EUR 30 million is provided in the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Labour has provided €26 million for: additional employment in social security institutions, home income for empty beds, compensation for compulsory protective equipment, as well as for the establishment of an external red zone and the payment of allowances to employees. Together, more than €56 million is provided for 2020 and 2021 from all CAP measures. It does not need to be emphasized that human and spatial malnutrition is due to the long-term neglect of this resource in our country. Everything cannot be fixed in one year, but the situation can be improved; and I trust this government and this government fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Diane Jedhan. But get ready, mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, other present, citizens, citizens, welcome! I will not talk about others, nor do I think of others to speak ill of what is being used here today. But I'll tell you why I'm going to vote for a constructive untrustworthy woman myself. The first question is, of course, a set of questions addressed to Karl Erjavac. First of all, is Karl Erjavec the ideal candidate? The answer is – no; because ideal people do not exist. The second question is, is Karl Erjavec competent and competent enough to lead the Slovenian government? The answer is yes. He's competent enough to run the Slovenian government. And, of course, the third question is essential. Would you be a better, equal or worse president than the current Prime Minister? Here, too, the answer is quite clear. I'd be a much better president of the government than he is now. So this is about Karl Erjavc. Next question; we are continuing to talk today about helping people, the economy and society with the CAP. And that ugly feeling is there all the time. We gave money. You didn't give anything. You owe our grandchildren, our grandchildren, and probably our great-granddaughters. And what's even more important is that you owe them exactly once more, in relative percentages I say, like the average of the European Union, that the effects are worse, that the economy is harder to reach a guarantee scheme, that some groups are easy to exclude or explain to them that they are second-class. I don't know if I should beg on my knees that you will understand that students studying abroad are not second-rate students. I took the initiative to put them at the same level as Slovenian students, and you humiliated them. For Slovenian students studying in Slovenia, you gave 300 Euros and 150 Euros to Slovenian students studying abroad. But these are all our students, and there aren't so many, I think there's 2,000 of them. So do not say that you give money; you owe our children, grandchildren, grandchildren, and so on. I agree with the interventionist measures, but they must be transparent, effective and effective. Today, however, it is an even bigger, important and more important issue than the question of Karl Erjavac. What we ask today, respected and respected, is what direction we want the development of Slovenian society. Is this the direction of autocratic development? Is that the way it is, because in fact, apart from one, no one should have an opinion? Or is this the direction of a plural society where minorities are what are rich in our society, where different thinkers are those who enrich our society, not persecuted and disgraced? We are also wondering whether the direction of our society will be one where someone who thinks otherwise, who may not be on the same political side, is going to receive lies, instigations, media destruction. My answer is – I do not want this development of society. And if we look ahead, the struggle with covid-19 itself has shown where it brings governance based on subjugation of professions, threats, bad examples and wrong decisions. It leads to horror, it leads to horror, so I want a different society. A company that sets the example, leaders who do not act as if they are the very bearers of all minds, because they are simply not; those who listen also apologize and are willing to cooperate. I'm not entirely aware, and I'm not gonna guess whether we get enough votes today or not. I am also not such a pessimist if today we do not get enough votes to talk about the end of Slovenia. Look, it's a good year and the elections will be here. But each one of us who press the button today decides on his own behalf, decides on the Constitution and will be the bearer of his personal responsibility. And my decision is to want a different Slovenia. That is why I support and also thank Mr Karl Erjavac, because he was willing to set his back on behalf of a different Slovenia and today he is receiving spits that he does not deserve as a human and as a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Dušan Verbich. And get ready, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A nice greeting to the audience! The opening presentation of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government and the debate so far is, in my opinion, a reflection of the situation that the Republic of Slovenia has a weak democratic tradition and culture. Over the three decades, it has been shown that client policies are not capable or do not want to step back in important times and focus their activity and energy on the so-called foundations of each country; and this is social responsibility and country-building. Therefore, it is in itself a question of how long or years will it take for political parties in the Republic of Slovenia to submit their objectives to their own country. Trust in running the country is one of the key messages of the customer leaderships, which are united under this so-called KUL. As a Member, I was also asked to judge before deciding whether I had failed the voters who elected me to this National Assembly. In this regard, I will give an answer in my debate below. But I don't blind myself. The purpose of today's extraordinary meeting is simply to take over the executive branch of the authorities and to employ its client membership at the ministries. That is the point, and I stress this and this constructive non-trust is also set up in this context. There is little concern for democracy, for the Republic of Slovenia, that I will not talk about citizens and citizens. For many years, weaknesses have accumulated, most of which reflect the long-standing poor governance of the country. And I will be concrete – neglecting the health system and caring for the elderly, delaying pension reform so that I do not talk about human resources destruction by the public sector and companies in the state of ownership. In particular, I would point out the following, which is very significant – the marked party feudalisation of ministries and the division of political spoils. This is also the framework from which I look at today’s session. What makes you think that? The candidate for Prime Minister of the Government and in public the names of potential ministries show the following, in just two words – already seen and also known. I believe that Slovenians and Slovenes are not such a quickly forgotten nation; or perhaps. However, I believe that the memory of the country's good-year-old management is still present, and perhaps if I say so, a little bit back. I'll just give you a few examples. A political party that has been promoting socialism for many years has become deeply involved in questionable transactions in the management of state property. In those days, we have considered the Court of Auditors' audit report on decisions in 2013 relating to the recapitalisation of state-owned banks. The account, which was a good EUR 5 billion, was simply exposed to taxpayers. A good year ago, we experienced the unexpected resignation of the Prime Minister, who then called for elections at the time of the outbreak of covida-19, and with the complete unwillingness of the state and citizens to do so today, a deadly virus. Now for the answer that I mentioned in the introduction. Many times in public, it was said that I had failed or failed my constituents. Yeah, I admit it. I really let them down, but that's what happened back in the time of the left-handed government. In particular, I promised voters the following – better functioning of the rule of law, more effective prosecution of crime, in particular economic, instituting and increased activities in the area of sustainable development of the country and the circular economy, not to talk about the social responsibility of politics. What, though, has happened in the last six years? They fight a little, they fight a little. That is why I also decided a year ago that the new political coalition might make it easier to make any changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Get ready, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Janez Janša is extremely harmful to Slovenia. That's a fact. Every ten years, in the 1930s, he manages to somehow break through and take over power, does as much damage as he can; then, in the midst of the opposition, he is destructive, lobbying, human resources, collecting money and also suspicious allies and, of course, deals with cash. The key to all of this is the mother of all affairs, this is an arms affair in which by selling the weapons of the Territorial Defence it has provided itself with an insurmountable political and financial advantage over the other parties. Therefore, support for his policy is support for authoritarianism, inequality, populism, manipulation, censorship, spreading fear, manipulativeness. It is support for division, support for the police state, disrespect and discretion of professions and all other thinkers. Support for his government is also the destruction of the future of our children and their children. It is the support of genocide over the elderly in the homes of older citizens. It is a support for the destruction of culture and independent media, supporting the destroyed external image of Slovenia, including our international credibility. Support for his government is support for Twitter policy, corruption practices and the Orbanization of Slovenia and, above all, the distance from everything we have built in the thirties. We are here today to return Slovenia to normality, expertise, tolerance, justice and peace. We've come together around this. We have heard a great deal of insult, first by the President of the Government and then by his Members, who are learning from him. Massive insults, under-appreciating relations with opposition Members. We project, we guess, we're a circus; it's interesting to watch them describe themselves and point their finger at us. We have also heard that we are doing this because of some media pump, and Janšev Nova24TV is being directly tolerated – I welcome you all, the viewers of Nova24TV – with two commentators because they fear that citizens will not understand what they are hearing today and need as many as two commentators in the studio. Well done, well done. In short, today each of the 90 Members sitting here has a historical responsibility for everything that will happen tomorrow. But, dear colleagues, tomorrow can be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, Citizens and Citizens! The hate coalition has filed a destructive hopelessness, an extreme radical left of voice in power, the current coalition is building, the KUL coalition is collapsing. Let's see what we're wasting our time and taxpayer's money for today. Good year is from the famous target of the rifle into the corn when you felt that you would not be part of the mission when the epidemic came. You jumped off the boat, and throughout the hard, responsible and effective work of the current government for the good of the people and the economy, you were just teasing. Now that most of the difficult work has been done in the most difficult times in the history of Slovenia, you would like to climb back and take control of the new mandate holder, who, following a tragic search for light in white day, you have drawn literally from a vein. After terrible attempts with Damian, you found someone who has received over 300 votes in the last election and a slap and a clear message from people that they do not have their support. When she became involved in her faionism, your first uncondemned mandate-holder, who was promoted as a termist immediately after the earring of the Jew and the takeover of the party of the former SD, you found yourself under the banner of the constitutional coalition after most of the extreme left political party. Two who have roots deep in the former totalitarian bloody socialist system, one in the Union of Communists, the other in the ZSMS; and two parties named after new faces that were launched for daily political purposes by the uncles from the background; and a deep state, both of whom are famous for the demolition of governments and the throwing of rifles into corn. After your constant degutant attacks, overturned lies, promoting the spread of infections, exploiting the epidemic for political purposes, you have only one and only one goal from your last capitulation – the overthrow of the government. You want to go back to power, but you are not part of it, as you have already proved; so let us build, and please do not break. Why doesn't your destroyer KUL have support? Because you are exploiting the epidemic for your political purposes, you are being radically hostile in the Slovenian Parliament, your hatred and poor example through speakers are spreading among people, you are launching socialist ideology and jugonostalgia, you are using for political purposes the media, children, youth and social weaknesses that you have created after the old manner of socialism to save them now and to believe you blindly. You support illegal migration, the dictator of Madura, and thereby the suffering of the Venezuelan people. Instead of European countries, you are closer to Russia, China, North Korea, you do not respect the borders of Slovenia, neighbouring countries, instead of getting closer to the Jewish country, Iran and Hezbollah, repeating and spreading twisted lies and attacking everyone who does not support your fanaticism. Do not condemn the threats of death, even more, they are your own, inflaming the drawing of swastikas by facades, worship and use totalitarian symbols, attacking and hating religious communities, values of Slovenian independence and Slovenia, all other thinking, even Members who are not loyal to you. You do not respect private property, farmers, young people, pensioners, entrepreneurship, economies, you are against building houses for elderly, health homes, hospitals, roads, apartments for young people. You are against more help to the municipalities, which means that you are against the development of my Lithium and Šmartnog in Lithuania, you do not care about young people, their education, they would give everything to the tycoons, with this indirectly defined media, banks, favoured NGOs, alternative culture, autonomous zones. You support the week, social tourism. In short, we're building, you're tearing it down. Let us see what kind of political partners or comrades you are in your destructive hate coalition. This is the address from the eminent, even favored media about the time when you decommissioned the Slovenian Army and NATO. Here it goes, the address was like this, before the interview Karl Erjavac Matjaž Han Levi reported that he was tearing down Karel Erjavac and the government, and Franz Trček SD to shield the Left. “This is the mother,” he would say. And such a union would have a government for the good of Slovenia. Yes, the devil still eats the fly. Therefore, respectable, be realistic and start using common sense, morality, ethical code, rules of procedure and a healthy farm. Let us build, and stop tearing down, do not attack, and do not tire us in hard work for the benefit of all citizens, and in correcting all that is carried away in all the years of your incompetent rule. Do not attack us with hateful rhetoric and lies, because we will defend ourselves with arguments, even painful for you. Whoever's looking, he'll find it. Believe me, the Slovenians will not forget your impatience and hatred for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u87	Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the following word. Prepare yourself, Mr. Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respectable candidate, colleagues and colleagues! Since almost every member of the coalition starts the debate with what kind of electoral system we have and how the whole of Slovenia is yellow, I am now volunteering, because I have been doing quite a bit of electoral work to do one free lecture, because apparently most coalition members do not know what kind of electoral system has been chosen and how it works. This is similar to when we see images that the whole of Slovenia is yellow, that 100% of the people are obviously after their SDS election; they forget to say that if you turn it into a percentage, slightly more than 10% of the population of Slovenia voted SDS. And here today I think they don't understand how they were elected. We also listen to the overthrow of the government and at the same time make fun of us for not having 35 votes. You probably know, if you can break something, you have to have a majority in the National Assembly. And I don't know what we ruined for you if you brag about having 52 votes or how many votes. In this famour of defending this government and more than your superior, you have begun to complicate yourself a little. Through all the PKPs and today we are listening to praises what this government has done for all the people of Slovenia, that it has not forgotten anyone. Now I'm gonna tell you who she forgot. In the LMŠ we have warned you since the PKP1 that you will not forget the young again, as you did with the ZUJF, when you destroyed many generations, we have warned you about this, we have said neither in the PKP1, nor in the PKP2. We've reached PKP8, and what did we get? Two times 150 euros for young people. Very big for young people. Now I'm going to tell you how much you've done for young people and what this government has done for young people. She's closed the nursery. The one who worked from home couldn't take the kid to kindergarten. All those who have children know how quality you can work at home if you have a child at home. Primary schools and secondary schools – closed for almost 4 months. It's a catastrophic communication. On Sunday night, my parents didn't know if the next day the school would be open. The minister cut off contact, actually communicating with all the stakeholders, saying that she was listening to the expert; the expert volunteered not to communicate with them. I think there were five physics contestants participating in the international competition in Slovenia. This government was unable to organize five contestants. You could've put them in the Conquests for safety, but you obviously weren't able to do that. Children with special needs, the profession warned you, we, the opposition, warned you that they had no physiotherapy. These are actually children with special treatment. Who brought them back to school? Not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they were returned by the Constitutional Court. The question is, where would these children be today if the Constitutional Court did not accept them and bring them back to school? Young people aren't at universities either, because universities have been closed for four months. Now something's started to open. Even those who study such directions, who need compulsory exercises, have not been able to do so, even though it was actually around the world. You've increased your admission to medicine. Great, but you didn't allow all those who study medicine, and if you needed doctors today, you didn't allow them to practice. Since the Minister of Education said that you can jump over Zoom, you can obviously also become a surgeon in Slovenia through Zoom. You and the young went even further, even though they had leases, you threw them out of college homes. But no, you work for the young. True, you have worked for friends who can serve with young ones in one way or another. In PKP8, you also gave accreditation to higher education institutions twice the same amount of €150. There you said that the NAKVIS supports this, although we have proved to you that the NAKVIS says that even if we should discuss this matter over a long period of time and do so, there is no argument that you are pushing this into the PKP. And look at the fraction, the Constitutional Court has held it back. Clearly, you wanted to help young people by equalizing their general and professional graduations. The secretary said it was supported by the rectors. When it came to the public, the rectors opposed it. I don't know which rectors she was talking to, probably her friends from private universities. You have also given young people uncertainty because you blocked public invitations to enroll in universities. In one week you were able to do an analysis of what Slovenia needs. Once again, twice 150 euros for young people and a lot of unrest. Not only did you take a lot away from young people, but also about the student work that fell by 90% in the first wave, in December it was still a decline of 60%, not because young people would not want to work, but because it was actually impossible to work because most things were closed. Although it is clear that more than 20,000 young people working through a student's passport earned an average of €330 per month, you gave them €300 in a bad year. What they earned a month to survive so they could study, you gave them twice 150 euros. Why do you have such a thing for young people? In fact, it is clear to young people today, because unfortunately they are not as obsessed with the electoral base as pensioners. If we went to the polls like that, they'd probably get a little more. But no, you've even gone so far, even though you save lives and help people, that, in sayings, you've forgotten to raise the minimum hourly rate for student work. Some automation that should be doesn't happen to your government. Since young people are not only students, but also many of them are reprimands; what was in the PKP about copyright and business contracts because they mostly work through these contracts? Nothing. I don't know where you helped young people either. Among young people, however, you have forgotten another matter that is largely related to young people, says sports. Regarding schooling, sports was disabled, and the Faculty of Sport said three months ago what will be the long-term consequences for all young people with regard to some development. Even professional teams, who were the only ones allowed to compete, see what things were going on. Slovenian teams lost European matches because we had legislation that no other country has in Europe. So far, testing has not been compulsory, except when industry requires it, it should have been new. In fact, you closed down all the competitions and also the clubs, which we also warned you about in the List of Marjan Šarc, did not allow any reimbursement of the costs. We know that when the economic crisis comes, companies will shrink first on the sponsors' funds; but the main thing for you was that we were able to boast that we had accepted a holiday on sport, but that we would actually help sport when it needs to, but not. In short, young people and sports have been forgotten again, but as we have warned you, in the ZUJF, you have taken away the future, as it seems, and in this crisis young people will become the most angry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word. Get ready, Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u90	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate! Today I have heard many things, including that we are a coalition of hatreds and that we are abusing the epidemic; and many times. At the beginning of your government's takeover, there was a lot of talk about how everything was bad under the previous government, how there was no protective equipment, how we did not control the epidemic, how the former Prime Minister of the Sharec Government and all the then coalition had some responsibility for every dead man with a covida-19. After taking over the new power, the new coalition began to acquire protective equipment, order, take photos with equipment, and lose trucks. And in this regard, of course, there were many doubts and doubts as to the lack of transparency in the procurement of these funds. At that time, the Minister of the Interior intervenes in the course of this event in the power of the Prosecutor's Office, by reviewing those final procedures which are in connection with the largest government party and with individuals connected or close to that party. There are always controversial human resources exchanges in many important key institutions that should be independent, such as the Police and the NPU. Even after the conclusion of the Administrative Court’s judgment that the Director of the NPU was unlawfully dissolved and that he should be put back in that post, they began to investigate and resolve the case by cancelling his first appointment more than one year ago. Then came police or NPU investigations into the acquisition of protective equipment, which was a shock to the government team, for somehow the government team could not bear to have someone dared them to do something like that or investigate ministers and their actions. I'm sure Minister of the Interior Hojs was very upset, and in this excitement, he offered to the Prime Minister or gave his well-known irrevocable resignation. But the Prime Minister of the Government has moved in his style, and he simply hasn't opened the envelope if you don't open the envelope, that's not what happened. Every time someone dares to be critical of this government, even if justified and reasoned, they follow sanctions. First of all, by trying to discredit him or go into some human resources stories with burdensome information or media lynchlets and pressures. And when Minister Hojs thus came into conflict with one of the police unions, he immediately started retaliatory measures, both by discriminating the union, their leadership and the last time he exposed all police officers to the public, and now for the second time he has published a list of employees in the Police and the MNZ and their salaries. The government acts in such a way that, in the event of disobedience, it must follow the punishment and nothing else. You don't know or you don't want to focus your energy on explaining to people in an appropriate way what you're doing, but you're going straight to conflict. Meanwhile, the numbers are growing and are growing and, of course, still growing, both the numbers of the dead and the infected. And suddenly, it was no longer the government’s fault for this disaster, as it had been before, but it became the fault of small and unruly people. For the epidemic's sake, the protestors, the cyclists, in short, all those who told you publicly or dared to say that they disagreed with the government's policies and actions. In this way, the government has come into conflict with them either by repressing and setting the tables or by some media pressure to uncontrollablely spread the virus as a result of their activities. In the meantime, the letters of the members of the Government followed to the European institutions where, as in the Austrian Empire, you have sued the injustices that are happening to you. At the same time, we must not forget that you have intervened in many human rights and freedoms by means of decrees and various acts. We have almost 120 days of curfew, closed schools up to recent, closed various activities, as well as guest houses; but not for everyone. Ministers can actually afford more than ordinary people can afford. Walking, meeting without masks, checking the operation of Croatian police officers, instead of acting in the same way as all ordinary and small citizens would do in order to cross the state border. As a result, the whole Balkans are laughing at us and Europe is laughing at us. And the Prime Minister doesn't react. And the silence says that what is lawful to God is not lawful to the ox: or what is for the nun is not for the bull. And that's the problem I want to raise. Therefore, respectable ones, this government must say good - bye and, in some way, cease these described acts, which we have witnessed to them, and we will certainly be there if that does not happen. All this time, there is also a war with the media, and those who hope to be critical and hope to think differently than the government's agenda. And here comes my initial question, who actually abused the epidemic – the opposition that is critical, or the one who rules. Therefore, dear colleagues, consider how you will vote today, and ask yourself whether it is worth allowing such things to happen; or whether it is necessary and extreme time for such a rule to end. And what can a great man do when he makes mistakes? Angela Merkel apologized for the wrong and also the late action at the second wave. And that makes her a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Nick Prebil has the next word. Prepare yourself, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to respond to the response of my colleague Doblekar, if we are to spread hatred and hostility in the opposition. I don't hate anyone in this room, and I never said that, so I expect at least an apology to that statement. Because no matter how much I may disagree with someone, this person has no right to say that I am spreading hatred for it. Then it was stated many times today as if someone would write to you or order that this government is working and acting. Explain the effects of the measures to the 4,000 dead and their relatives, if you hope. But I don't know who to talk to, because no one from the government has been here for six hours. And we are not sitting here today because, as the finance minister has said, that the mission of the opposition is to bring down, this may have been your motto, our motto, not ours, not because we would be squeezing, but not because we would not want to end this terrible epidemic; we are here because of your actions, a respected government. Because of your failure to cope with this epidemic, due to the abnormal recruitment of all institutions, the attacks on the media and the judiciary and those high numbers of the dead, but also because you are arrogant and ignorant of the people. That is why we are here today, and the condemnation of this is a perfectly logical and legitimate act. And the fact that this government has not done its core task, that is, to prepare the country for crisis and minimization and for health and economic effects, is clear today because you have just been protected by yourself, in that inviolability and old practice. Yeah, old practices you could never get rid of. And that's why you were only in the fall, when the numbers of the sick were already very high and when the matter was clearly out of hand, you started training the staff, you started buying extra useless medical equipment, you regulated the space crisis of hospitals; and of course you forgot about the elderly. And with all that, when we should first deal with the epidemic, respectable, not least, you have spoken in those types, we have given you the opportunity to do so in the LMŠ and also in the opposition. And you lied, you cheated, you abused the system, and you redirected the blame, of course, to others. At the same time, you had a time for 634 personnel exchanges, yes, that's a new number shown by the government counter on your website. I will repeat again, today more than 634 human rights exchanges with client connotations, to overthrow culture with the most uncultured minister of all time, to insult and intimidate all journalism, to attack the judiciary, to bring the police state and to intervene in police procedures, together with an indeterminate minister, to collapse of education with a completely incompetent school minister, to shame the country with distorted dispatches and letters, and to pro-American or, rather, protrumptural policy, which has proved extremely flawed, not to mention a fiasco with the regret of the current US President. The quality of our foreign minister is far from quality. And there is a conscious disregard for the laws and duties imposed on the Government by the National Assembly and the rule of law that you take as a joke. When it suits you, you respect it, but when it's not good enough for you, you spit all over it. And with the goal of changing society to your own measure, and that is the reality and thus ruling is dangerous. And despite the eight PKPs, you have forgotten about the future that your mouth is full of – young people, vulnerable groups. You've taken measures that have nothing to do with the epidemic and nothing to do with it. But that's far from being bad, that no one would tell me, that I never said that, and I never said that, and I didn't say that. But you have shown by your actions that you believe in the faith of Judah. You know the story of Judas, don't you? And all this dismantling wouldn't be possible if someone didn't support you. Regardless of the result today, regardless of any political recalculation, accounting, reality is the one that will remain after that. There will be people and their hardships, a half-dead economy, a financial hole and angry citizens who point out mistakes and inadequacies; of course, they are never heard. And it won't be your fault, then you and this national council, it'll be your sole fault, and only you who're holding on to it. Either you are unaware of this or you have failed; or you are aware of the actions and deliberate misuse of power for political purposes, only these two options exist. And misleading the representatives of the executive branch that the opposition is destructive because it wants to hold a political debate on the responsibility of this government for the poor management of the epidemic and its conduct, this is unseemly and reflects a conscious misunderstanding and fabrication of the Slovenian constitutional regime. And I hope we also know what our most important blue book says, that in Slovenia it has power over the Constitution of the people. And the people tell you where and how you crashed, and the fact is that they disagree with your rule and methods, especially with the way you communicate. Given what I'm reading today, these are more than 65%. Try to understand them at least if you can. I'm gonna end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word. Get ready, Mr. Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues and our guest today, Karl Viktor Erjavec, a beautiful greeting to all of you also on my behalf! The fact is that all Slovenian history in this National Assembly is elected by Members and Members by the President of the Government, as well as by all ministers of different governments. I come from a party that has received the most votes in the Republic of Slovenia at the last elections, of course with today's slogan Building Slovenia. Of course I'm proud of that. Dear Erjavec, in your address when you concluded, you said one sentence that nothing people in Slovenia would lose if they supported this distrust. I must tell you that I will tell you something today about you as a policy or I will talk about you as a candidate or a politician; I don't know you personally. You are most famous after once running for one of the elections, when you promised Slovenian pensioners and pensioners that when you come to parliament, they will have a thousand euros in pensions. I think that all those who then followed you – which happened to you that you were in Parliament – have found that this did not happen. But today you are the candidate for the new Prime Minister of the Government until the end of your 2022 term. Of course, the President of the Government must have, in my opinion, but of course also after the majority assessment of this national assembly, a lot of quality things, but above all, it is important that it is authoritarian. You are in the last elections – and I know you will win 394 votes again with your head. I must say that I come from a small congregation, that this is not enough for our local community. People know you the most there, you can't deny it. Not now, however, to think that what happened last time in the party has also rejected you by the world of the party, your Members reject you at the time of your candidacy. It's very difficult to talk about authority here. And if there is no candidate for the Prime Minister, then it is difficult to form a government, ministers and ministers. It is very difficult to have authority when the government is composed, but above all I cannot imagine how someone who does not have it can work with neighbouring countries; especially how such a Prime Minister can have authority in the European community that we belong to. Let me mention two more things. You used to talk a lot about how the government changes decisions every day or every week. If I turn to you, you've changed your decision twenty-two times in six months, or you'll run, or you'll enter signatures with 46 Members, with 38, with 10; but you've already filed a withdrawal. I have to tell you, this indecisiveness of yours is very distracting. Above all, I cannot imagine what the defence policy would be if you were the Prime Minister of the Government. Of course, one of the biggest parties in your government strongly opposes the defence policy of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think if this happened today, God forbid it would, Slovenia would be threatened from tomorrow. I'm not going to say how I'm going to vote today. Dear Erjavec, I am talking to you as a candidate to leave this government to work in these difficult times primarily for the benefit of the Slovenes and the Slovenians who live in this beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Erjavec wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I've got to take this, because there's been a lot of strung-up stuff. First of all, with regard to those thousands of euros, this story is repeated over and over again. This is a statement that is more than 10 years old, and obviously always comes in handy, because obviously in the last ten years you have nothing else to report than that I once said that pensioners could have thousands of euros in pensions if they did not have wild privatisation, to talk about tycoon stories. Because our pensioners, when we were alone, had accumulated enough assets so that this generation, which worked in the former country and at the beginning of the 1990s of our country, could receive a thousand euros in pensions for 40 years of work or women for 35 years of work at that time. And that was my point. It makes no sense to me that intellectuals like you in the SDS party are constantly underlining that I promised thousands of euros. If I had promised thousands of euros, I would probably have been the Prime Minister of the government long ago because people would have taken this statement with credibility, credibility. And that would probably be the first time and the last time, because we would see that thousands of euros can't have a pension because this social accumulation disappeared during the time of wild privatisation. And that's all I said. But since you have nothing else to say against me, then you repeat – a thousand euros, Patria, buckets, arbitration and so on. Citizens and citizens are, in my opinion, tired of these stories. About how many votes I got. It is crucial for me that Desus has been a parliamentary party for 15 years. And I would like to see you as party president if you were capable of having the number of votes you receive each time so that you could sit in the National Assembly, how many times would you bring your client to the National Assembly? But it's already one of the sights again, because the other is impossible to read to me. I'm not an insulting person, and I'm not authoritarian, so I'm not the authority you want. You keep talking about your president as an authority. Of course it's authority. The Secretary of State disagrees with him about the invitation to tender, so what happened? That way every authority can be. But that's not the kind of authority I want to be. And that is why I have also accepted this task, this duty, this honor to run for office. And I believe you don't have to tell me you won't vote for me. I don't expect it either, because you guys support each other's policies. A policy where there's some authority behind it. Because you can't function normally without authority. I'm also interested in how you know that the members of Desus rejected me. How do you know that? Unless you consider Robert Polnar to be a member of the Desus Party. This is the best messenger of all time, who puts much into the truth, which uses big words, but uses little more. When I should simply say – look, I don't agree with your program, I don't accept the party Desus, I would like any normal person, so you don't need any philosophy, you don't need Aristotle or any other philosopher, so you find that you don't belong to this society. And instead of sitting here, I'd be sitting in some other more suitable seat. About 42 signatures or ten signatures. Indeed, on January 15th we made a constructive non-disclosure with 42 signatures, because at that time it was even said that I did not have 35 or 30 or 39, but we showed 42 signatures. Do you have any idea how close it is to 46?Oh, my God! I understand your concern. You don't know how many votes you have right now. You may know that the members of Desus do not support me. What if they support me, what if someone else backs me up? What a disappointment in a few hours. For you, not for me. I just set my back because I don't think Slovenia is going the right way. If you think this is the right path when we have a curfew when we have to fight here in the National Assembly, not me, you – Members and Members, in particular from the Modern Centre Party, how to maintain the independence and independence of the Slovenian Press Agency. This seems below the level that we are dealing with such a question in some modern society whether the national press agency will be independent or not. These are the questions that concern me, and that is why I have accepted this candidacy. Even if it doesn't work, it won't be the end of the world. I didn't run for political office. When I left politics, I had a serious intention, 15 years in politics, a lot of beautiful experiences, even a lot of ugly things, but nothing bad, they were the most beautiful years of my life, and I will always be happy to remember them. But this is the path I decided to return to, and I said that one reason is that Desus is a party, because I think it is a shame that she would no longer be a parliamentary party, and the other reason is that the country's denormalisation. This denormalisation even in this national assembly, listen to these discussions. We're not talking about what we're going to do for people, what we're going to do for the economy, how we're going to open up new markets. You must not say that any other market is interesting: Turkish, Russian, Ukrainian. But we can proudly say that we are the greatest allies when it comes to the rule of law, Hungary and Poland. This is a matter we can be proud of. And about my involvement when I was still the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am the recipient of some of the highest national decorations, not by the Slovenian state, but probably not because I would do my job badly, but probably because I was doing it properly and in the service of Slovenia. And I'm proud of this period when I was Foreign Minister, Defence Minister, and also Minister of the Environment. And now you're telling me what we're going to do about Levica, who's anti-arms. We're not gonna do anything, and we're gonna get the money for the guns. What are the priorities of the Slovenian country now? Armoring, or health, or investing in science, in education? How are we going to make up for this backlog when the students were at home instead of going to practice: I'm sure these exercises could be carried out? What a scientific backlog for these generations and how much money it will take to make up for this backlog. And we're talking about weapons now. Who's going to attack us? We were attacked by a covid-19. And as many victims as we have with covid-19, we didn't have them, even when we were on our own. And that worries me that we've been completely ineffective here, carefree. The profession was disregarded. Read the records of the expert group. Nothing was taken into account. It went according to the standards — I know everything. The Great Leader decides everything, all questions, he knows everything. This is the authority that Member Podkoršek spoke about. I don't want this authority. Democracy is not built on authority. Democracy is built on the autonomy of every individual, every citizen. And if we don't respect that, then we're not on the right track. And today, ladies and gentlemen, this is our decision to make. We don't make decisions, but Karl Erjavec will be the terminator. We decide whether we want a normal country where there are some normal relations, where people can expect some predictable measures; not that things change overnight. I'm very worried, Austria is now very close because they're afraid of what's going to happen to the new strains. We're relaxing now. I hope it's in the back. Well, if she's an expert, I don't have a problem. If the profession says this is the right time to relax everything; then everything will be fine. But if there is no profession behind us and it is just a political decision, perhaps because we have a constructive mistrust today, let us show the people that we will relax a little, and then you have made a big mistake. Today is just a cut-off of a moment, of a condition. This constructive distrust may not succeed, but believe that the day of the election will succeed because voters and voters will say -- enough of this, this pressure, this authoritarianism, this fear, this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor. And the next is Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear candidate Karl Erjavec! Today is undoubtedly an important day for our democracy and our freedom. All of us Members are given the opportunity to decide to break the path of, if we can call it, a crazy train that daily proves the tendency to disappear. Soon we will witness one year of severe attempts at cruel changes in our proud democratic system. We are aware that the government began the moment the epidemic began. In the first wave, we have also witnessed the good management of this epic situation, for we have almost been convinced that they have good intentions and concrete solutions for infecting and preserving the well-being of our country. But it wasn't like that. By adopting different anti-Korona packages, we were immediately aware that the intentions were different and repeatedly harmful. Harmful mainly in the light of the 30-year democratic and social rights achieved, by instilling in the articles of the law which did not have a minor link to preventing the crisis. My dear fellows, what should we be proud of here today? The obvious corruption and favoritism in the acquisition of protective equipment, masks, ventilators, rapid tests, nepotism, privileges, the decommissioning of institutions, the failure to respect first-class measures, the shame of their own country outside the borders, the disrespect of the Constitution, the curfew we have for four months now, the total breakdown of the health system, the destruction of the small economy, the ignorance of the control of the second wave of the epidemic, which has completely escaped control, the repression, desecration, intimidation and humiliation of people, the constant attempt to subjugation of the public media and the agency, the closed schools and, see it fracture, the open church. To which of these things should we be proud from the beginning of your rule? Personally, I'm really disappointed. In the SAB we expected changes to facilitate business processes for entrepreneurship, the labour force, our labour force, our employees, which I have always considered to be the basic and greatest wealth of every activity and entrepreneurship. Your smugness and your promise, when you were in the opposition, were never over. You change the conditions, you change the measures by morning until evening, so that you do not master your own written decisions. Inexplicable, unnecessary and reckless measures taken by you in disregard of the entrepreneurial expertise of the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts. And in the case of traders who did not need PCR tests or rapid tests, when the situation is finally calming down, you are asking them today. Incomprehensible decisions are still in your nature and a constant in your thinking. When we're closed for fourteen days after 100 days, I think it's time for you to leave. The damage was done for two generations. The possibility of disobeying the Golden Rule has kept you in debt and is still in debt. By all means, you bought a consensus of citizens with populism and prizes. On the other hand, you constantly requested and invested in the anti-Korona laws themselves, the harmful and inappropriate articles you wanted to introduce into the backstage of the epidemic. I want you to know that this is not all going to be enough for forgiveness. In each PKP package, we reminded you in the SAB party that the debt must be directed primarily towards a development strategy and a way out of the crisis. Now here we are. We are now ahead of an important decision that could finally stop this process of totalitarianism. Dear colleagues, honourable Members and Members, there is no longer time to examine the wishes and purposes of the President of the Government and his closest colleagues, this phase has long passed. I therefore turn to judgment, to responsibility, to the self-awareness of the consequences that we will witness if this government remains in place. Do not let us become a nation oppressed, a society without a spine, citizens of the wrong system and the wrong choices. Ladies and gentlemen, here I am primarily addressing Members of Desus and the Party of the Modern Centre, and there will be irreparable damage. There will be a situation that will not be able to reverse. We are Members and must be responsible in the service of the people, for the needs of the people and for the welfare of the citizens. As our president has said, let's stop this train of madness. Let us be aware that all of us will be judged by the people and no one else. We Members will conclude our mandate tomorrow in one way or another. It's a shame that he's gonna stay behind, but he's gonna stay here forever. Dear Members, be part of the change and understand in your own decision the new challenges. Change gives us some purpose. Therefore, let this purpose be a golden word called freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Get ready, Mrs. Jerca Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Well, today we have listened again – the enemy government policy, the dangerous government policy, the harmful government policy, intimidation, the spread of hatred, fear, authoritarianism and so on. Let's get to the beginning, Your Honor. Look, this isn't a picture from the past. This is a picture of today. But what does this picture symbolize? The best sure word of Moshe Pijada. He said: “That is why we must burn. We'll shoot. Those who have no house, no land, no animals, will join us quickly when we promise them a great robbery. It'll be harder with those who have property at least. We will associate these with lectures, theatre performances and other propaganda. We are mortal enemies of all prosperity, order and peace." That's your policy. What you read to others is your policy. And that kind of policy was already afraid to kill Kramberger. And you know what he said? “And when they do not rule, then they will protest and call for the death of those who rule but are not of their kind.” Colleagues and colleagues, that's what today is about. It's not an epidemic, it's not a health problem, it's not a problem in nursing homes. For if this were all the case, you would do something in the time of your governments that you had. Well, you didn't. And I wonder, candidate for Prime Minister, today I have heard a great deal about the collapse of our health system, how nothing has been done this year. I would hope that you will at least say something for the benefit of your Minister Gantar, who has been exposed and literally attacked here. And I didn't hear anything about it. You're telling us that we're talking about you being voted 394. Elections that are the only relevant, respected, not polls, not polls; elections are those that vote. Why am I stressing this? Because you talk with all your enthusiasm here today that the current government does not trust that citizens and citizens do not trust it. Look, you've measured how much they trust you, and they've told you. Do not be ashamed of these voices and take it as a personal insult. Be glad you got 394. Let's move on. That's your policy. This is what you read to others, and you participate. That's what this is about. Don't talk about fascism because you do it yourself. It's you. That's your policy. And yes, here are the death calls to a specific person, and you've done nothing about it. That's what today is all about. And that's normal for you. But it is normal for us to build and oppose a policy of destruction and destruction. And you've been doing this all year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u102	The quotation we were able to hear in the beginning, under which the Piazza Moshe was to be signed, is a pure fiction. Multiple rejects of pure fiction. But the inventions are close to SDS clients, so let's say it's being invented this morning as to how it's successfully coping with the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one has the word, Mrs. Jerca Korča. Prepare yourself, Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The opening statement of respect for our Constitution and the instrument of the constructive non-trust that stems from it is that today neither the current President of the Government nor any of the 16 representatives of the government's machinery sits here. On the other hand, we have a candidate who listens to and hears the whole debate. And there's already a big difference between one concept and another concept. The destruction of the Constitution, the destruction of democratic standards, the subordination of systems, the discrimination, the brutal recruitment and so forth are obviously too imaginary for a lot of people in this room. I understand that a person can understand these matters in more detail only through the prism of history, because only the historical view of understanding what is going on. Because at the moment someone who is in the process of all these matters may not even understand what is going on around him. So I'm not going to use these imaginary notions that you've already proved today that you just don't understand them, but I'm going to go into the naked facts. The bare facts are sadly such that we have 3,000 977 dead. Of which 2 thousand 30 are in nursing homes. And we are talking about the excess deaths, that in 2020 we had more than 3 000 600 deaths in Slovenia above the normal average. And in certain months, mortality was even more than 80% higher than usual. For December – 89,1 %. And that's the highest mortality rate in the last 20 years in one month. Do we understand what we are talking about? And so many more people died from the epidemic, and that's over a thousand 700 added deaths per million inhabitants. That's what we're talking about. And these are not the findings of the opposition. Researchers and researchers at the Institute of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics at the University of Ljubljana have prepared an analysis, read it. The key conclusions are, I tell you only two, that timely and early adoption of measures is the key to controlling the epidemic and that the current situation of the epidemic is mainly the result of too late and disproportionate measures taken to contain it. A different course of action could prevent at least 80% of all deaths. And now I'm giving you some trifle into the mosaic of why this government is responsible for these numbers. Let us look at the way the government treated Croatia, how much the expertise of Janez Janša’s government has been respected. 29. 6. Mrs Beović says: "It is my opinion that within a few days it is necessary to consider that the border with Croatia for Slovenian tourists should be closed." 28. 7. says: “The course of the covida-19 epidemic in Slovenia is most resembling walking along the edge of the abyss.” What does the government do? 21. 8. Place Croatia on the red list. It's a late action, dot. This is the responsibility of the President of the Government, who is at the top of the pyramid or leads the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Second of all, dealing with a home for older citizens. 6. 7. We are speaking to July, and there are April letters once before, but I will focus on July, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia points out the lack of a system-wide regime for the isolation of patients with covidoma-19. 16. 7. require the provision of external units for infected residents. 28. 7. Even a section of home doctors supports them in this regard. And what does the government do? Minister Brickler King, 28. 9. – we are talking about at least two months later – the statement: “No new measures will be taken in the homes of the elderly for the time being.” Now, you explain to me, but this is not about finding responsibility for the late action of the government, the failure of the government, the non-confrontation of the epidemic. If I add follow-up to contacts and quarantine decisions, which this government has not devoted sufficient attention to to strengthening this part, it is very important, and if I add that you have declared the epidemic in 20% of positive tests when the matter is out of control; for comparison, the government of Marjan Sarca is less than 5% when matters are still manageable. And these are the numbers and these are the facts, the mosaics of the government's responsibility for the situation that we have today; and this is 3 000 977 dead, 80% higher mortality. And what would normal politics do with such a fiasco? She would take political responsibility, stand before the nation, say she crashed, and leave. That would be the normal thing to do in every democracy. No, except for us. We do not recognize political responsibility, it is a feeling that, unfortunately, the President of the Government is unaware of neither the word politics nor the word responsibility. And where can we find the responsibility of Parliament in all this? In order for the opposition to do everything in its power to prevent further irresponsible, inappropriate and anything else from doing this government. And that's also in a way to file a constructive mistrust. In this House we sit 90 and we call the executive branch of power, this is the government; and we have the responsibility to say it is time to leave, it is time to do so. Because when such numbers happen, such errors, I have told only one piece of mosaic based on the facts that you may be more likely to accept the facts, then we all have a responsibility to say no to this policy today, which can do very bad things and is dangerous to our future. Because if we only conclude a few months ago, we see where this dangerous policy has led us. I'm very concerned about where she can take us if we let her hunt at the top of our republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the following word. Get ready, Mr. Primoz Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Almost a year ago, for the first time in history, when I speak from time to time after the war of independence, the Slovenian country was hit by the biggest crisis. And this crisis was not only related to health and health, but this crisis continued on the financial, social and later even stronger and more depressed in this moral field, on moral values, on values that respect fellow human beings, co-citizens, the same mindset or the opposite. From independence to today, we have avoided certain topics from both the political left and the political right. There were boundaries where the policy ended and some state-of-the-art started. We knew how to address ourselves in certain circumstances, how to respond to the challenges of certain questions and times, regardless of the differences that have always been and will always be. But it seems that so far a generation of politicians are not able to put the broader context of our mission at the forefront, namely our country. When Prime Minister Marjan Šarec stepped down a year ago, in parallel with the outbreak, he took over the government's leadership in a third experienced policy, which had already been involved in the independence of the country, which led the first government between 2004 and 2008, later in 2012-2013, the second government, a relatively internationally established policy, which, contrary to its past work or not, decided much more with its past work on a policy of exclusion. Practically anyone who disagrees with his policies, whether it comes from the fields of health, epidemiology, education or even the scientific field, not to speak of politics, has practically been discriminated against on a daily basis, exposed in his media, by the continuous generation of hatred, which, of course, generated another hatred. How do we find ourselves in the situation of allowing a man who, at the turn of the third government, had an extraordinary opportunity to lead the government in these chaotic times from the presidency to the elections and actually to show a state-of-the-art attitude, gave up this and decided on a different, less-friendly rhetoric, rhetoric of exclusion. It started with RTV and STA, it continued with corruption in the acquisition of protective equipment, with the full discretion of all health knowledge, because it decided on measures, on those directed by epidemiologists experts. Our mortality has actually jumped into the sky, we are the first since the death to a million people in the European Union. Debt is now in the sky, relatively quickly we will find ourselves in a situation where we will only be in debt for 10 billion at the time of the fight against covido-19; and this in the way that we tell people – because we give you money, you have money, be at home. But it's not enough to give people the money you don't give them. It's their money, it's the money of all citizens and citizens, it's not government money. It's nice to give up the fiscal rule, to be in debt as never before in history, and then to explain to people that we are fighting well against all the consequences of the epidemic. The measures were pointless and illogical, and all citizens and citizens know that. It is a shame to say that this government is doing well, whether the President of the Republic says so or the President of the Government says so. Every citizen knows that this is not the case, except for those 20% who are mostly SDS voters and in one part of New Slovenia. Not to talk about SMC, because it's not a customer anymore. Desus is now ahead of one of the biggest trials as well as certain SMC individuals. Today it is not only up to the government, but today it is up to us to decide whether parties such as Desus with a 30-year tradition will be wiped out from the political map and whether the final death or the failure of a party which was established in its essence as an anti-Janshima. I'm sorry, with a little starter, like an anti-janchism. Remember the words of ethics and morality. If it were not for Mira Cerar and Milan Brglez, this party would not exist at all, these people who decide not only their fate today, but who decide the fate of all of us, would not be sitting here at all. Not to mention a culture that is completely devalued, about education, about schoolchildren who pray that they can attend school, about an international reputation where, according to your perception of quantity, it is at the forefront of quality. Today it is possible to read the German officer Die Welt, where Minister Logar explains in the second order in Germany that we are not Hungary or, sorry, “we are not a populist government”. That's the address in one of the central German clocks. What does that say? That we must defend ourselves against insinuations, that we are subordinate to Hungarian powers. And we must explain this before the Presidency before the whole of Europe. We are doing very well, especially in the field of foreign policy. Not to mention the NPU, the D.A., the police. For the first time in the history of the Director of the Bureau of Statistics, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the NPU – anything that could prevent a survey of the odd transactions that your client has done in the last three or four years. Not to mention a sport where you practically make us handicapped. And let me see you, Your Honor, next time we're going to have great sports successes, with your congratulations, how you're going to pat each other on the shoulders. Not to mention young people, you think that they will live twice 150 euros in a better tomorrow, at a time when they have the least support from everyone; not taking credit for anyone like veterans who ask themselves why they have the extra money in the given circumstances. But you helped Jambrek University, the one in Nova Gorica where I come from, which I must say, my hand on the heart, that unlike the University of Nova Gorica, she never left a mark in the sense that she would revive the city as we expected, I speak of the university. Quick tests, you talked about good work, you guys, #good jobs, we know. A good deal has become a shame. And let me conclude that I will not take the time away from my colleagues, because we are very limited, so that you will not be in this trekking by your own existence, the personal existence of Donald Trump, who was protecting his own against Kaptole. And don't let the adoption of reasonable electoral legislation be the reason that tomorrow you will be the one to resist yours against the National Assembly. 3 000 977 dead in the time of government, which works very well for you, but not only your opinion, but also the opinion of those who should warn that this government not only works well, but takes away the humanity with which we felt so good in our homeland, regardless of the differences that have always been and will always be. So let us learn to live with differences, not to create differences from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter is next. But get ready, Mr. Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! In solving the epidemic, the government of Janez Janša has forgotten its key task, and this is to solve the epidemic. In the health crisis of these dimensions, which we have not witnessed in the last 30 years, the shortest was those who have already entered it in one way or another. Those who are in some normal circumstances in some normal society deserve the most attention and protection, of course, about the elderly in nursing homes. These, as it is said, have already entered the health crisis by themselves, plus in the system that was on its knees financially, human resources and infrastructure. And it is understandable that from this title they have become hotbeds of infections; and it is understandable that every normal government in these circumstances should pay more attention and more attention to them. But Janša's government has taken a reverse course here. They took flat-rate measures, for which the profession itself knew, for which the profession itself was essentially shouting that they were not working. The Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, for example, a roof organization at home for the elderly, was indignant to the extent that it simply got out of communication with the government on the issue of home rescue. The most cited example is, for example, the establishment of red zones in nursing homes. As a volunteer in a nursing home, I witnessed the futility of this measure, the homes warned that with personnel, finance, with space, they were not equipped to bring such a project down; and that it would go only to the detriment and not to the resolution of the epidemic. They suggested that separate locations be established to ensure that people with disabilities are taken care of and that homes are not overloaded in other areas. But the government did not hear this call, even in the summer it was dealing with other projects – 780 million for weapons, a twofold number that would permanently solve the entire spatial problem at home for the elderly and so on. But the result is, understandably, a record mortality. Ergo, the way Janez Janša’s government managed the epidemic in the homes was not only ineffective, it was harmful. Instead of saving the government, it was hurting. This fragile area of healthcare for the elderly must finally be ruled by the profession. That's my main call. And if that means that the government of Janez Janša is leaving, let him leave today. Members, it is up to us to decide whether today we will give a voice to life, to the survival of our elders or to the government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next. Get ready, Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u110	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished candidate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! As New Slovenia's Member of the Christian Democrats, I believe in the work of the current government, which works well, professionally and responsibly during the fight against the invisible enemy covido-19. I believe that with my voice against the distrust and wisdom of most of my colleagues in this esteemed assembly, the current government will also be successful in addressing the challenges of the future. The vast majority of countries in the European Union and in the world, as well as in New Slovenia, are aware of the importance of a well-functioning army, even in these very difficult times, perhaps the most in these times. Christian Democrats of our own Slovenian army are restoring dignity. The White Paper I have here, which was published in January 2020, one year ago, when you were still the Defence Minister, is a document “for the reconstruction and strengthening of military and non-military defence mechanisms”. That's what it says in there. “Safety is good and value. Without it, other national objectives relating to social, economic, political and cultural development and strengthening the well-being of individuals and countries cannot be achieved.” The Defence Act, the tough nut of every government, collapsed in the current government with a two-thirds majority in this esteemed assembly. This is the first time we have resolved the status of soldiers after the age of 45, and we are turning employment trends in the Slovenian Army, because we are also reducing employment procedures from 90 to 30 days. In the twenty main measures, we follow a legal decision to implement key Slovenian Army equipment projects. The White Paper also states: »Financial resources will be prioritized towards the launch of modernisation projects and the infrastructure capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Therefore, appropriate legislation will be drawn up for the implementation of the key Slovenian Armed Forces equipment projects." New Slovenia has implemented this in the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. We have thus interrupted the existing multi-annual anti-constitutional situation because the Slovenian Armed Forces are unable to provide defence in accordance with Article 128 of the Constitution. We didn't stop here. The Ministry of Defence has helped all Slovene municipalities with €6.5 million to cover covid-19 costs, and finally this coalition has finally adopted the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which secondly relieves municipalities and allocates additional funds for the successful development of municipalities and rural areas. If we look again at the White Paper: “The core of the capacity and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces will represent the creation of the capacity of the Central Battalion Battle Group by 2027.” Finally, let me trust you with what people say – the government is doing great. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. Get ready, mag. Marko Koprivc. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Mr. Karl Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u112	Thank you again, Ambassador Franz Breznik. Too bad Member Chernigoy's leaving because he mentioned the White Book. I must say, I am pleased that, in my mandate, we have been able to prepare this white book. True, however, the situation has changed greatly. At the time we wrote this and accepted it, the economic situation was completely different. We had economic growth, and in particular we were not burdened by this epidemic. However, as the former Minister of Defence, I would strongly recommend that this White Paper be reviewed once again in terms of these new threats, such as covid-19 and similar things, because I feel that one part of the investment could also be devoted to combating such phenomena. Since I have to be honest with you that at the time I served as Minister of Defence, there was already this virus in China, but we did not realize that this virus could have global consequences and that it could have such a long-term impact on our lives. Perhaps only as a recommendation that a good white book should also be re-examined from this point of view, in particular in terms of increasing capacity and resilience to such phenomena, because obviously this will not be the first epidemic and not the last epidemic in this new period.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Now he really has the word Mr. Franz Breznik, prepare Master Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Carl, I'm sorry to touch you. We know each other. I was just watching this weekend for 13 years. This year will be 13 years, exactly 31 May 2008 we met. I can tell you exactly, the location was the Krokar Reef in Corsica near Mont San-Pietro, you came as Minister of Defense, behind me was the completion of a two-year research work in Corsica, where we then picked up more than 27 tons of this unfortunate aircraft. We found more than 100 bones or remains of unfortunate passengers, thousands of pieces of their personal items, and then in the first Janša government we somehow transported these remains, to Slovenia, buried them and took them away, and on May 31st we set up a small memorial ceremony. I remember exactly the moment you came to me, where I explained to my family the last 15 minutes of Ivan Kunović's flight, which was piloted by this unfortunate Yu-ANA plane, as we told him. I've been explaining to my family, including the work of your team, the unfortunate ending and the crash of this plane. I also explained the last words in the cockpit and so on. So, 31. 5. We worked together in a noble act under the first Janša government. At that time, I could say that our journey somehow started symbolically with aviation, we talked a lot about flying over airplanes today. Similarly, fate wanted me to meet Janez Janša in a similar way, more precisely on May 26, 1991, two days after the hellish events, when he came as a young minister of defense to encourage us, those who two days earlier defended Pecre against the aggressor army as the beginning of the war for Slovenia. While many people who are still part of this policy that is undermining this government today have said to shut down this barracks so that it is impossible. I could also introduce Janez Janša as captain of a military aircraft at the time, which no one gave him the hope that this military aircraft would win the battle against the much stronger planes of the then Yugoslav People's Army. He gained extraordinary experience, victory on this military plane, and later this story ended somehow between us. I went abroad, I acted, and 10 years ago, I was lucky, I went back to politics. During this time, I experienced the second time that Janez Janša took the plane, this time a large passenger plane, during a time of intense turbulence when two engines were destroyed. We're talking about 2012. And when he saved the plane from literally, I could say, the crash, some crew came in, put it in the background of that plane, turned on the autopilot. The autopilot can be understood as a condition that someone does not drive this plane, but that they are driven by some software or some uncle from the background, as some explain. That's the jargon I have to use today. Today we're talking about who's gonna lead the government plane. But it's not a plane in terms of a few passengers, it's a plane that has 2 million people on it. The specificity of this mandate is that someone in the elections got a bigger license. People trusted him to drive the biggest plane, and unfortunately, someone in those elections didn't even get a license to drive a model plane for remote control. This is now the difference between this moment and the time between 2008 and now. This government team we have here today, and the one screaming from the opposition today, had a chance. In 2018, she took over the plane in extremely favourable circumstances, extraordinary weather conditions, and this plane somehow picked up, turned on the autopilot, like always new faces, did nothing, showed that she was driving the plane, but when the first turbulence occurred, the cockpit opened up, the whole crew flew out and said, "We are not going to do this anymore, are we going to be flying?" And the movie started. Is the pilot on the plane? Fortunately, one of the most experienced pilots who flew on various types of aircraft, Janez Janša, came to the cockpit and gathered a whole team of people around him. The turbulence was incredible, and the planes fell endlessly, first Italian, then German, then even now Scandinavian. During these turbulences, the pilot, Janez Janša, with his team, the air engineer, the copilot, discovered that this aircraft had not been piloted in eight years, and you did not maintain it well, and the shortcomings were apparent. You didn't even fill up enough fuel. As we found out, there wasn't enough protective equipment at the time he took the plane. You haven't even picked up the undercarriage of this plane, and a whole bunch of circuits have been canceled on the plane during the turbulence. You didn't increase people in hospitals or capacities, not in a nursing home. There was a whole series of circuits missing, but this plane brought through the first major turbulence in the first part of this epidemic. Unfortunately, amazing things began to happen in the cockpit. Those first-class people, the most spoiled ones, started yelling, this pilot was bad, we didn't get any champagne, we didn't get any caviar. Those people who work most in this society, who sit in the back seats, who worked 18 hours a day, or those who worked 40 years, were calm during that time, acted, were fastened, did not get any water, let alone any snack. But the pilot who's driven through these intestines now, through this storm, has also taken care of the weakest. But the rest of the team crashed during this turbulent time on this plane, unhook, no turbulence, and so on. This also caused a lot of damage and a lot of deaths. And now that the plane's coming back from the turbulence, you're knocking on the door. Also, dear colleague Erjavec, you're knocking on the door, even though you don't have a license right now. You also know what it means to have a pilot on the ground for a while and not fly — not to fly. With your team, you knock on the door and yell, "We want to fly now!" I'm asking you, as a colleague, to stop knocking on the door, to go back with your team, to sit in the back seat, to fasten yourself, to wait for your turbulence to pass, to read a manual on piloting a bigger passenger plane, to get a license, like a PPL or a commercial flight, a pilot for commercial flights or a flight with an instrumentation, and somehow wait for this plane to land normally. Everything else you do now is like just one team. It was a team in 1945 called Kamikasis. These were the unlicensed pilots that took off their planes out of hatred just because they were going to crash one day. And what you're doing now is, you could say, very much like the 1945 kamikaze. You're being led by hatred so that someone doesn't bring this plane back to normal. You'll end up knocking on the door before you know it. You'll get less fines than those passengers who make a tie on the plane during the flight. Dear Carl, if you listen to me, I'd let you finish this flight and we'll all give it up at the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Erjavec asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for the parable, too. The only thing that bothers me in this parable is that you claim to be led by hatred. I'm not being led by any hatred as far as my candidacy is concerned. But I can see things aren't going as well as they should. Much has been said in today's debate. Perhaps for you this plane is flying in the right direction and will also land somewhere, I hope not near Budapest, but near Ljubljana. That's what I'm worried about. I don't think the path taken by the current government is right. You know that Desus was part of this coalition and that we would continue to support this government if we made the right moves if we had the right solutions for the epidemic. But we can see that there are no solutions. But it's not just coincidence, it's mostly this, and I'm deeply convinced that the profession is not being taken into account. Today, I heard the eyewitnesses about Dr. Gantar's Minister of Health. Remember the public debate when he disagreed with some of the moves he wanted to make by the President of the Government. Already in July, Mrs Beovic pointed out that Croatia could become a problem because it is not controlled enough to have quality covido-19 infections. Minister Gantar warned of these things, but unfortunately he wasn't heard. That is why I say that it is right that the current Prime Minister of the Government is at the moment also the Minister of Health – otherwise we will see what will happen in the coming days – because in fact he has made all the main decisions regarding the epidemic, not the expert group. We can see that from the records. And even when I had conversations with Dr. Gantar's Minister of Health, he told me he was alone a lot. We know those tensions that were particularly with the Minister of Economy, who, of course, was protecting his interest, how the economy would be least affected by this epidemic, and this is a legitimate, legitimate interest. But on the other hand, it was also about life. I'm afraid there's been too many lives. So I'm not made by hatred. I don't want this meeting of the National Assembly to end this way. I have been involved in various governments, including John Janša, and I must say that there is no reason for hatred. But there are conceptual differences. We must respect that in democracy. I see different developments in Slovenia, the direction of Slovenia, but you see this differently and this is your legitimate right. But the National Assembly will be the one to decide which way is right. If there is no national assembly, it will certainly be when the regular term expires and the electorates and voters will say so. It's not a matter of hatred. Unfortunately, however, I note that the talks in this House are sometimes impatient, hateful, and I am concerned. And not because of you, especially because of the people watching this, who are doing it, and then we see what's happening on the street, on the roads, on the markets. This is probably not Slovenia, not the country we fought for 30 years ago. That is why all policy here should be more patient and understand the differences we have. It's not that we regret how many votes someone has won. I have explained this several times today, and I have never been guided by the fact that I have to be elected as a member of the National Assembly. Even when I was elected, I had to be in the government as party president. However, I have always been very interested in the fact that Desus is a parliamentary party. And I am pleased, proud that we are also a parliamentary party today, and I will be happy if this is the case in the next elections. I hope that you too will rejoice because you advocate pluralism, democracy – what would be a democracy if only the SDS were to decide? We have this kind of moment because coalition partners are weak, they can't resist the politics you're setting up right now. But look, nothing's wrong. It will be your responsibility if people think you are doing well, you will be rewarded, and you will have another mandate, but if people think otherwise – and those I somehow advocate – will feel otherwise after regular elections another government will. This is a normal democratic process and therefore there is no need for hatred. Please stop talking about hate, because there is no hatred in me. If you do, then that's your problem, not mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The replica of Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u118	Now you're going against yourself. You're saying don't talk about hate, but you're talking about a great leader in here. Let's deal with what you're representing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There is a candidate for the new Prime Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u120	It is probably not a dilemma that the President of the Government is very authoritarian in leading the government and also your client. There's nothing wrong with it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course it's true, because it's full of cases. Look at the case, I mentioned it several times, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education. That's unnecessary. What, then, can a lower official do against government policy? Nothing. I suggest we stop doing this because it doesn't make sense, and I don't want to respond to these replicas either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u121	Thank you. A replica or a procedural one? It's a replica. First Anja Bah Žibert and then Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u122	But we can really talk about authoritarianism. You're the one who didn't mean it the way you did, threw him out of the party, an MP, and you're here today with him. So not about authoritarianism. I didn't feel any authority in my SDS client. And there's one more thing. There was a replacement man who missed out on what he was supposed to do. That's the problem. And today you're reading to the government that we've been keeping calls. Come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u123	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u124	Karl, look, as far as authoritarianism is concerned, I'll tell you. I've known Janez Janša for 30 years, I'm his 10 years, I might say, but a close associate can tell you, a man is sometimes a hard-hearted person, but extremely soft-hearted. I could list many of the projects that we have carried out for those who have been at the brink of despair in this society, and John Janša has helped them tremendously. I can tell you another life story. I started with Corsica. In Corsica, I was assisted by engineer and pilot Matjaž Meško, cousin of Boruta Mešk, if you have ever heard. This was the director of the STA before the lions brutally took over the government at the end of 2008. Do you know what the current director of Veselinovich is, who you've been reading about today, is that we're tearing him down, that there's something undemocratic about someone having to send a report about where he spent his money? You know what he did to Borut Mesh in 2008? At 2:00 a.m., he called him and said that he had to send out the reports every day what he was doing that day just to get rid of him. Then he called private investigators and told them that a man didn't want to work. Then a man went to the hospital for a few days and said he was avoiding work obligations. Borut Meško, a proud father of two children, a top journalist, brave, was on the same day as he found out at the Oncology Institute that he had cancer in the last stage, received from Mr Veselinovic for reasons of guilt. That's the story of this brutality. You know what my buddy Matjaž Mesko told me after Corsica? He said: "We appreciate Mr. Janez Janša, because at the time he also called and asked if anyone could take him to work if he could help his family, my relatives, so that a person could live for at least a few months." Unfortunately, Borut Meshk is not here today. Mr Veselinovich, the one with the heavy moral backpack, is still there, making a loser because he has all the loudest media behind him, and says that Janez Janša is totalitarian. This is the story of totalitarians, heartless people in this Slovenia, who, for the cover of socialism, have put the most powerful Slovenians in the media for the cover of a small man. This is the story of undemocraticity and morality.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, and he's going to be discussed by the mag. Carmen Furman. My friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Mr. Karl Erjavec, Mr. President of the Government! Unfortunately, I cannot welcome between us the current Prime Minister, Janez Janša, because he has been absent since the beginning of his opening act in the Chamber. In this way, it shows in some way what his attitude is towards parliamentaryism and how he respects democratic standards and parliamentaryism as an institution. But that's the way it is, and we don't have anything. However, I would like to point out that in fact every additional day of the government of Janez Janša means great damage and disaster for Slovenia. That's what the numbers show after all. The government of Janez Janša has proven to be the worst government in the history of Slovenia. It is not only incapacitated and ineffective, there are very serious indications for the corrupt actions of this government and the links to international criminal networks. Just remember the stories with Diana Djudžić, Orban's media moguls and so on. It is very dangerous for democracy in the Republic of Slovenia, for the health of our people, which is even worse, and for our common opportunities for development. From the very beginning of the performance, it is said before a bad year, further violates the foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It interferes with justice, security agencies, brutally intervenes with the police and tries to subordinate the media as much as possible. At first, of course, she went to the state media, tried to submit, and in part, she, the national RTV, subordinated herself to the STA, including with such distasteful observations, as is now the case with fellow Member Breznik, trying to humiliate and devalue the current director of the STA. He also tries to obtain certain private media through the ownership of the circle of Orban oligarchs. All with one and a clear purpose that you are the great leader of John Janša submits all social subsystems to himself and to his only saving truth. But let's just leave it. Let's focus on one topic, most important, on people's lives, on controlling the epidemic. You know, when the first infections began in Slovenia in March or late February, opposition leader Janez Janša said that current Prime Minister Marjan Šarec had to go to prison because he was infected and that his government had not acted in accordance with his expectations. What can we then say about today’s situation when we are champions in Slovenia, champions after failure to control the epidemic, champions after death in Europe? We have just under 4,000 victims of coronary disease. Much more than we had in that heroic war of yours in 1991. And who is responsible for this? Nobody! Why did this happen? Because you have taken incorrect and ineffective measures because you have used the measures you have taken to limit the epidemic to strengthen your totalitarian authority because you have taken measures based on threats, on penalties rather than on the actual protection of citizens and citizens. One thing we've been warning the opposition all along, and you didn't want to hear it and you didn't do it – it would be necessary to protect workers in jobs. We should set up hospitals, we should set up quarantines, and we should actually contain the virus. But you have taken measures such as curfews, such as closing congregations, punishing people who eat burek on the road, even though there is no one around to infect it, while at the same time financially rewarding your friends, your fellow priests, in these famous PKPs. You've given the priests 700 euros in prizes, the candy, as we like to say, and the students 150. What's the logic here? Where's the justice here? The logic is only one: those on the line who are in line with the expectations of Prime Minister Janez Janša and those who follow him. After all, this government is more than one man band, and I think most people know it, ministers, government members know it, but they can't say it. Slovenia does not actually have a Minister of Education. The school also decided to close the first and open the last, even though the whole of Europe was doing the opposite. And yes, we will replicate, but in Slovenia we have actually had schools closed the longest in Europe, despite the fact that the education was carried out at a distance. It's a big mistake, it's a big damage, damage to entire generations. While you were afraid of breaking relations with the economy, with capitalists, opening up, closing up, using pointless measures, such as closing shelves with socks and underwear in stores, and nothing happened in the area of education. Except that the schools closed down and were finally opened to the public after severe pressure a few days ago. In short, the main purpose of all the measures taken to control the coronary disease was to strengthen the total authority of Janez Janša. Every additional day of this government is a big mistake and every additional day of this government is a major damage to the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe if we go back a little bit. Janez Janša is not a Democrat, and he was never a Democrat. It is one of the few — Mrs. Anji Bah Žibert would reply because she had previously shown some pictures — Communists who were members of the Communist Union, in this national assembly, if not the only ones. I'm sure he's the only one who was at the very top of the party at the time. And for this party, it was too extreme for us to want to have it in our own kind. In short, John Janša wanted to emerge from the war in 1991 as a great winner as a hero. This failed him because Slovenia had already been so democratised that it failed to become Slovenian Tudjman as it wanted. That is why he now wanted to take advantage of this story of the great health tragedy. I don't think he's gonna make it this time either. Today, MEPs and Members have the last opportunity to decide which country they would like to live in. Would you like to live in an autocratic country, as the current government offers under the leadership of Janez Janša, or would you like to live in the country of the Republic of Slovenia as defined in the Slovenian Constitution in 1991? I think that this is a very important day, that this is a very important decision, that every Member will bear the weight of this decision, so I believe that today he will think very carefully about how and what he will decide. We have before us the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Erjavec, an experienced politician, I believe that he will be able to take Slovenia back to normal and, at the same time, lead through the Presidency of the European Union and then to democratic national elections in a good year. The continuation of this government would mean a lot to Slovenia, which would mean further usurpation of all subsystems, further usurpation of the media. As Janez Janša understands NGOs, he said in his address today that NGOs are opposition. He likes to express himself in a military jargon because it's obviously a big hobby and a fetish. That is why we understand that the army of the opposition must be approached by the police of the state, and that is why we were in Ljubljana, the city of hero, able to receive these horrendous views the day before the cultural holiday, when this army, or police, paraded around the city and persecuted its supposed army of opposition. I believe that today we will gain 46 votes in the KUL coalition to lead this country to elections. If that doesn't happen, we'll fight to the end, and I believe you won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u128	I would ask you, Madam Vice-President, to ensure order and peace in the Chamber when Comrade Koprivc discusses. Her colleague Jeraj fell into his word and disturbed him in the debate. In general, I would like to make one procedural proposal that, if any parliamentary group disturbs the debate of any Member, it simply takes time to devote this time to another parliamentary group which is disturbed. However, I ask you to ensure first of all peace and order in the Chamber, and to warn fellow Members who have had an uncultured debate, even after they have been in Parliament for 20 years, that they are disturbed by other Members. To understand each other, this is not a random act, it is a deliberate act and also a degradation of the National Assembly and the functions of the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, I didn't realize, at least it wasn't up to me here that something was wrong or that there were any disturbances in the debate, Comrade Mag. Mower. If you are there, if Members talk a little bit with each other, as they are now on the other side, this is allowed in this Parliament. The other thing is. However, time cannot be redistributed in this way, there is no basis nor in the Rules of Procedure nor in any other act. I suggest you make some consistent procedural proposals next time. And now the replica of Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u130	It is a worshipper to the dictator, Mr Koprivc, who manifests the SDS dictatorship. This is Mr Koprivc coming from a stolen Jewish villa. This is Mr Koprivc, who denies the war on Slovenia. And this is Mrs. Koprivc, who comes from a party that had a 10-year-old resort, and she didn't build one home for the elderly. Please, this is a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivc, can I help you? [[advertising from the hall]] You don't have a replica. It's not possible. Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u132	I was directly challenged, so please. Procedural. Procedurally, yes. Dear Vice-President, I would like you to step up and remind my colleague, Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert, that this is Mr Koprivc, you can also call me Comrade Koprivc, I will not be embarrassed, Comrade Koprivc, who bows to antifascism. Because I am a proud antifascist and I think the problem in this government is that you reject the values of antifascism.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u133	Dude, what's the procedural proposal? Should I warn my colleague, or do you have another discussion on the motion?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u134	The procedural proposal is to warn your colleague, yes. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, on the other hand, you know, these authoritarian methods and insults you take the word. [[…]] It's a democracy that's a Jancist. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u135	Comrade Koprivc, you have also offended in your debate. Yes, of course I take the floor because the procedural proposal is a procedural proposal, it is not now a debate, it is not a replica, it is not a controversy. I propose that you abstain from such difficult words in the debate. To date, the debate, despite the fact that the topic is difficult, is arduous, which has been carried out properly. I suggest you refrain from any other terms, such as the great leader, and to read totalitarianism and so on. No, you don't. After the war, there were many casualties due to the person you were laying down her wreaths tens of thousands, and that was totalitarianism. I propose that we proceed with the debate. It's got magic in it. Carmen Furman, and she's going to be discussed by Željka Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. The so-called KUL coalition led by Karl Erjavac today, on behalf of the number of people and, of course, also in my name, I report the following. You let Slovenia and our people down a year ago. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u137	Hold on, hold on. I'm asking for your attention, because this is a really bad time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Because of your own calculations, you acted irresponsiblely, selfishly, and selfishly. On the other hand, we have drawn up a government led by experienced politicians, organisers and dedicated Slovenians, Mr Janez Janša. In this coalition today, we are people who are involved in the matter of our fellow humans and who are working together to build Slovenia. The fact is, today, the whole world and, of course, Slovenia is in an epidemic, but you, with a rumor of hatred – and colleague Koprivc, have been a good specimen before me today – you are constantly using the epidemic in your struggle for power, and you are not choosing any means to achieve your privileges. Unfortunately, not at the expense of the lives of citizens and citizens either. You're smokin' people, spreading hatred and intolerance. Let me remind you that the victims of these threats and pressures are, not least, the President of the Government and even our fellow Members who are on the threatening posters. I'm talking about this. [[shows the object]] , the well-respected KUL coalition. About that. Is that democracy for you? Do you even know how many people died because of this symbol? I believe that the majority of the people you so scold don't even understand the symbol or swastika shown in this picture. But you know, under this symbol, history has already killed, destroyed, tortured, committed genocide, and more than 60 million people died. And because of what you do, with such an approach, you cannot talk about normal Slovenia with such an approach. Therefore, Mr Erjavec, wherever you are, because you are not in this Chamber, do not abuse words or rape us with cheap rhetoric, because it is not, it is not, and must never become a normal Slovenia. I tell you, however, that parliamentary democracy is still in force in Slovenia. That means you can rule, you have to be elected first. But you're elected when you get the trust of people who give you their voice in elections. Today, self-proclaimed candidate Karl Erjavec won exactly 394 votes in the last elections. By comparison, in my congregation we have 14 local communities and many elected members of these local communities received more votes in the last elections than your candidate, Karl Erjavec, in the last national elections. And here, you know, here I'm talking about members of the local community, not the candidate for Prime Minister. So I tell Mr Erjavac today that the people in the elections have obviously let him know that they do not want him in Parliament. The very way in which the non-trust and arguments from it are made is in one way or another a valuable political pamphlet, which is said to be ashamed of by many opposition MPs after the Towers of the National Assembly. Since we are just in the middle of nowhere when Mr Sarec likes to bake doughnuts, I would like to tell you in the end that, given the dills that rule within you, these donuts will never succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u139	Thank you very much. She's got the word Željko Cigler, and she's gonna get the word Iva Dimic after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues! The fact is that the government of Janez Janša is not responsible for the consequences of its policy in any way, and this is illustrated by the following. The proven unreliable rapid tests of Majbert Pharma, which show a high proportion of falsely positive citizens, distort the picture of the epidemic in Slovenia. Why is that important? Because it is precisely from this data that is immediately entered into epidemic images that it depends on whether schools and kindergartens will open and close. Then, because of this information and such interpretations, kindergartens and schools open up, everyone is satisfied, happy, and four days later they close. The manipulations in the interpretation of the data on the epidemic are the basis for this event and are indicative of the inability of the state administration of the epidemic, under the leadership of Janez Janša. Who is responsible for the damage caused to children, parents, schools, regions? However, the unprecedented hypocrisy is that the government of Janez Janša claims that it will do everything to win the battle against the coronavirus and that its first concern is people, while at the same time politically appointing a professional and business-confirmed incompetent person at the head of a state hospital, as it did in Celje, and re-electing a person who, with his leadership, had a strong influence on the breakdown of the hospital, the departure of the medical staff, poor business and, above all, that the National Investigation Office is still investigating this hospital. This hospital is not working for the benefit of the people, but it's getting more and more involved in healthcare business. Who's responsible for this? And that's what I'd say. The building permit, this is very important, becomes legally binding when all deadlines for objections to its issue expire or when all legal remedies before regular courts have been unused. So when the administrative dispute ran to the end on all the natives. However, the decision of the Administrative Court in case 51/2020, which has not yet been decided, is also linked to the construction of the rapid road section near Gaberkah. I ask how the construction of a fast road at Gaberkah can be legal, but if the building permit is not yet legally binding. Who's responsible for this? These are the questions and ways of working that cry out after the early end of Janša's government. I used to work with Janez in the ZSMS. I've known him 36 years. In his authoritarianship, he remained unchanged and, above all, inappropriate as Head of Government in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic has the word, and she'll get the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! It was interesting to hear today the debate and views of my fellow Members, mainly from the opposition, who said that Slovenia was ahead of a decisive turning point. I think that the only breakthrough in this country or in the history of Slovenia was a decision for a single country. We get calls, I get calls that I have to go to the right side of history – what happens to those who are not on the right side of history? Like what happened to those who weren't on the right side of history, according to you? I hope that one day there will be cleansing and that we will find out what the real side of history is. Are the true sides of history posters with pecky crosses? Is the real side of history the fight against Christians, the attack on Christians? I'm afraid you'll come to power! I'm afraid you'll come to power. I'm on the side of those who, in health care in eight months, have newly created more than 300 beds for all patients with covid, on the side of these. And I'm on the side of those, and I'm on the side of a government that, after 15 years, has been able to provide over 540 jobs in the DSOs within 10 months in the field of human and spatial distress. I'm on that side where people are helped, where they help the economy and help the country itself. In his discussion with the government, colleague Dejan Židan had previously acknowledged his duty. While it is legitimate, I do not understand how the former president of the SD party does not understand that such countercyclical policy can be expected in times of crisis. In the last quarter of 2008, when the government took over the SD, the country's debt amounted to EUR 8.3 billion, and in the last quarter of 2011, when you completed your rule, the debt amounted to more than EUR 17 billion. At this time, you have increased your debt by more than €8.7 billion, by more than 100%. In 2008, the country's consolidated gross debt amounted to 21.8 GDP, leaving the country with 46.5% of GDP in 2011. Therefore, debt in terms of GDP increased by 24.7 percentage points, i.e. by more than 100 %. With this I do not wish to report anything to you, I just want you to understand that in the time of one of the biggest crises of our time, we unfortunately have to commit ourselves. Thank God that due to the good work of the Government and the reputation of Slovenia in international markets we can be indebted at very favourable rates, even at a negative interest rate, for the first time in history. And yes, according to all the words spoken today, I'm afraid you'll come to power.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u143	Thank you very much. It's a procession of Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u144	Madam Vice-President, I would just like you to warn the Member that she does not begin to deceive here what the true side of history is. The true side of history is already known, what is the true side of history, and you must not allow yourself to start changing history like it is. Let me warn her. Let's warn her not to talk nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u145	Dude, I'm gonna warn her, you're just having a substantive debate right now, you don't have a procedural proposal anymore. I'm going to warn everyone who's talking about the right side of history. In the debates, including SAB, SD and others, you are talking about the right side of history, without anything being defined here. And you're talking about right and wrong government and so on. There's no need, sir, to intervene for such things. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, he'll get the word "magic" after him. Andrei Reich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A reputable candidate for the term of office! Dear candidate, I will not support you. I won't support you for any more reasons. Today's presentation of the new government's programming designs was empty, with no views, without a programme. Moreover, the former Prime Minister of the Government, the President of the largest KUL coalition, in his position of approximately 15 minutes, did not mention you in a single word. This government is doing well, this government is working effectively and it is right to continue its work. The fact is that the numbers speak substantially differently than he wishes to present to the public the work of this KUL coalition government. Slovenia is one of the lowest in the European Union when gross domestic product falls. The unemployment rate in Slovenia is among the lowest in the European Union. Covid has hurt the European Union, he is among the more affected areas in the world. This government has taken measures, in particular, to curb the spread of the virus, to preserve jobs and to preserve the functioning economy. The government didn't save financial institutions with tax money, the taxpayer's money went for people. This government has taken care of the most vulnerable groups, health care and social welfare. Credit cards give us higher ratings, higher ratings. Moody's raised our rating for one and rated Slovenia as a stable country and worthy of trust for foreign investors. This opposition, in particular, has been plaguing this government over the last eight months. It has markedly disrupted everything that this government has been building, and in fact, by speculating, it has disrupted public action. This government has provided higher averages for municipalities, municipalities are one of the country’s largest developing forces, the averages have increased more than twice, and the economy is satisfied with measures. Pensioners have never, and never, or for a long time, followed that pensions have risen and have been aligned with annual growth. This government could take care of all people, and this government should continue its work.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, he'll get the word of Franz Jurša after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u148	A number of SDS members acknowledged the illegality of the candidacy to the distinguished candidate, Karl Erjavac, due to the lack of votes received in favour of the parliamentary vote. Here I would just like to touch this or tell you some facts. It was in Italy that the Prime Minister, who did not receive a single vote for the Member of Parliament, was confirmed. Not even the late Dr. Andrey Bajuk received a single vote for the MP, but that didn't bother you at the time. This is what bothers Members who are afraid of a preferred voice, and most of all it bothers Members who do not want voters to exercise their trust in them personally. Dear candidate, you have my trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u149	Thank you very much. He's got Franz Jurša and he's gonna get the word "magic" after him. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u150	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to everyone in the hall, of course also to the candidate for the term of office! At first, I have to say that I have a crazy little time to tell my thoughts because my colleague, Polnar, has spent all his time talking to me. But it won't bother me enough to get out of the parliamentary group. You know, in two months, I got thousands of letters. The letters came from the left and the right. Also, it said: “Pearls are already infuriating the fairies in the pus.” That's what they say I've got some fairies waiting for me. I am also concerned that outside the National Assembly Jaša Jenull drives a banner with the faces of us Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, and on this banner is also written that the prize is per person's head. You know, all this then has some consequences. Our society is very strongly divided, and that worries me very much. We have left extremists and right extremists. Why am I talking about this? I said that in public recently. Because I want to say it's okay if you can understand each other, but not those who are extreme. This is possible only for information on elections and results obtained by Karl Viktor Erjavec [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u151	Dude, time's up. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, she'll be discussed by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very nice greetings all colleagues and colleagues! To be clear right away, this is not about illegality, but it is about saying that people, citizens and citizens do not trust the proposed mandate holder by not giving him enough votes. I'll show you how much I got myself. As a new face, as someone who re-entered politics, I received 3,000 372 votes, while the proposed candidate was 394. It says he got eight and a half times less. So much for illegality. I will continue to ask you where you see as proposing to undermine this government's health and education. This government has dedicated to health and education what you've been ruling for all these years, you couldn't do. It has earmarked funds for reconstruction and investment in schools and has also earmarked funds for reconstruction and investment in health care homes and hospitals. At the same time, homes for older citizens and day centres, which are more than needed throughout the country, have been restored. Then you further state that there are unreasonable measures. The measures are not unreasonable. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the Government has to check them every week to see what the situation is and on the basis of this situation and the expert opinion for next week. Therefore, the measures are being amended. And don't hold what you said about shutting down schools. It is not true that schools in Slovenia are the longest closed. Take a look at Unesc's list and you'll see how many Slovenian schools are closed. That she didn't take enough help for the company. If you haven't spoken to the entrepreneurs before, let them speak to you as soon as possible. As the Government has in fact contributed more than to the fact that many companies and independent entrepreneurs have survived and have not failed by co-financing the waiting for work and co-financing of reduced working time, the basic income is actually more than a measure of co-financing. I would like to see what you are saying – that the new candidate will take care of the long-term care and the elderly. Yes, he will continue the work of the current government. That's all he can do. For if it were for a purpose, the former government, in which he was also, would have accepted and done it before. The candidate also stated that Desus had decided not to go to the government where the SDS was located. This is the opinion of the candidate, this is not the opinion of the parliamentary group. For if this were the opinion of the parliamentary group, in fact we would not have been in the coalition before. What has this government done for people? This government has done a lot for people, namely, it has financial burdened the municipalities, it has been raising averages, it is all designed for people, free kindergarten for another child, a higher allowance for the care of the child. After 10 years, investments in infrastructure are being made, including for people, and could also be listed. “Explain to people why relatives die” was heard during the discussion. Why? Because the previous governments have failed to ensure that our health care is on a higher level and that the homes for the elderly are also restored and suitable for living. That's why. Finally, I'm just going to state that candidate Erjavc's statement that Charec is incompetent. Sarec declared that Desus had shown what he knew, and that certainly not Desus would be their first decision, but it was time for a new generation. Tell me how to get together now, how you can go to the coalition together. It's already doomed at first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Karl Viktor Erjavec, the candidate for the new Prime Minister of the Government, wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u154	As far as Desus is concerned, I must say that in 2018 alone, at the time of the election campaign, we decided consciously that we will no longer participate in the governments where the SDS is a party. This is a democratic decision that has been made within the party. As you now tell me what I said to Marjan Šarc, I can tell you what your President said in June 2017 at a large SDS assembly. That is, that with rodents like Desus, he will never go into coalition again, because the Desus party only emptys the jaws, and it fills the jaws. Of course we want to fill them for the pensioners. So the twisting of those words has no weight anyway. I hope that that inscription of Rat on the door is not a consequence of this thought, which was given in June 2017 at a large SDS assembly, when it was said that rodents such as Desus will never again have in their government. This was also the result of the party’s decision. Because you wanted us to never cooperate again. If you don't believe it, you can look at the Journal24 website, type in rodents and Desus and you'll see your president's statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot will be discussed by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Respectable candidate, respected colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats believe that in Slovenia we have witnessed the systematic and consistent breakdown of the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, the media, justice, in short, the decommissioning of all social subsystems. That's dangerous. This de facto means a journey to an authoritarian and arbitral state. It is no longer a fight against the epidemic, which can make human rights abuses reasonable and legitimate. The covida-19 epidemic has become a legitimate excuse for limiting fundamental human rights at a time when we are all afraid of spreading the virus. It is a cover for saving lives, through which it slowly, but consistently, through the spread of fear among people, it limits basic civilisation standards. We found ourselves in times when we were citizens and citizens for solidarity in society, for the protection of vulnerable groups, for the victory over the virus, ready to renounce fundamental rights, to radically change lives, to live a new normal life. All to succeed and defeat the epidemic. The government should respect that. The government should understand and lead. Unfortunately, this government has decided to use the epidemic to finally achieve its long-term interests, and this is unacceptable. There is no pandemic and can't be an excuse to lower human rights and standards. It is more than obvious that this government has repeatedly overreacted to human rights, even without adequate legal grounds. This was also pointed out by the Constitutional Court when, for example, it decided that the closure of schools for children with special needs was unconstitutional, or when the Government called on it to check every seven days the eligibility of the measures, and that the decisions of the Government should also include appropriate explanations or be published, and this was forgotten. The social democrats are particularly reminded of the grave controversy between the two measures, namely restrictions on the movement of municipalities and curfews. Any measure restricting human rights must be proportionate, necessary and appropriate. It is appropriate if it is possible to achieve a goal, i.e. to contain an epidemic. Experts, doctors, epidemiologists have now repeatedly made public their doubts about the effectiveness of the curfew and restrictions on the movement of municipalities. This means that these two measures do not meet at least one of the three necessary conditions for restricting the right to freedom of movement. The opinion of the section on individual restrictive measures will thus have to be taken into account by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Judge, Dr. Špelca Mežnar, in her rejection separate opinion, said that the curfew was not just an intervention in freedom of movement; it was an intervention in personal freedom. As such, this measure is unconstitutional. I have already warned myself in a September debate that you are taking steps without a legal basis, that every Thursday you will prepare some new guidelines for our lives, without a declared state of emergency or epidemic, and now there is an increasing number of warnings from lawyers pointing to the legal basis of restrictive measures. For example, Primož Bavcon, who writes in the Journal that, I quote, “such restrictions on freedom of movement and assembly are not permissible without the declaration of an emergency or war state” and, I quote, “ constitutional rights and freedoms can only be restricted by law under the Constitution”. And you calmly limit them to decrees. In addition, you completely deny the powers of the National Assembly and concentrate your power in the executive branch. This absolutely reminds me of some other times. Not to mention the chaos that reigns because of the rules in the form of PKPs, which are adopted quickly, without adequate dialogue, without adequate discussion. In short, chaos is a word that might best describe the current state. After every rule you have adopted, you cause confusion and a host of questions – including between lawyers. Not to mention the contradiction of the rules adopted. Instead of the debirocratisation that has been promised and the simplification of the rules, we are today in total confusion. It is time for this chaotic and hopeless state and governance to end and for standards and human values to be restored, for which, more than ever before, we see that they are absolutely not self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the word, and Joseph Lenart is prepared. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. When John Janša is in power, we can never talk about government, for we can only talk about a ruler. Because he does not understand the government that it would be some kind of assembly of a democratic group or political party, he understands only himself or only himself as a ruler. Unfortunately, it is quite often, as it happened this year, that his aspirations for the police state, the militarization of the police and the things we experienced in Cyprus, then in the Horn and also in Metelkova. I do not understand, and there will be further clarifications by the Prime Minister and the Minister as to how they dare to look for parents who, in fact, did not protest, went to the streets and went to fight for their children, for the future of their children, is said to be their better and brighter future. I do not understand — and here I would ask him to apologize to all these families or parents — that they would then dare to seek and punish them for taking up and fighting for their families. And then you're full of mouths every time you talk about families, about family relationships, about how we can work together. How dare you, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, go and punish the parents of children who are fighting for a better future for these children? It's not only embarrassing, it's criminal. Anyone who dares to play with the future of our children or our youth must realize that one day these youths will decide his fate. It is right to apologize and find a person or not to punish him in these matters. But I would also tell him that I know that there are many times when a Bible note comes, or Christians and such matters, that these things are very clear about shepherds, and he is also acting as a ruler. In ancient times, shepherds were appointed rulers, and he is essentially a self - sacrificing shepherd who deals only with himself. In fact, he is not interested in the sheep, he is interested only in him and his narrow circle of people around him so that he can feed them or prepare things for them. Of course, I support a constructive distrust. I'll say it's 12 o'clock, five o'clock in the morning. I hope the Members will finally understand, let us no longer fight for how and what you will be here, we are fighting for the future of our children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, mate. Metelkova is under the Municipality of Ljubljana. If Mayor Jankovic had not decided to vacate after a court decision, this would not have happened there. We're moving on. Joseph Lenart has the word, after which he will receive the word Blaž Pavlin. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. All present, colleagues, and also a new candidate! The text of the non-disclosure is, rather than unusually, at a low and unprofessional level with uncompromised objections to the Government and its President, Janez Janša. I must say, I am sorry that, with such a poorly prepared text of non-trust, the proponents cast a bad light on this national assembly and on all Slovenian politics. As nothing seems to be sacred and morally controversial anymore, you are going back to some political adventure that fosters political instability and, of course, harms citizens. It is even sadder that you even enjoy this implementation. Whoever needed this writing and for this months-long shameful process — filed, withdrawn, reinstated — so much time that we are now talking about this unconstructive proposal, I do not think he is capable of being a municipal councilman in Odranci, not of being a member or a minister or even a president of the government. The eyewitnesses that were given. The government has threatened Slovenia's position in the international community – completely false, even better for the foreign minister than the previous one. The following are banal claims that this government is in charge of autocratic politics, and Janez Janša is an autocratic absolute ruler — none of this is true again. It is written that the public speaks of the pale forum as a date of dictators. I don't think you're all even aware of this message you put in this file. Dictators’ date — what message do we give to our neighbors, or do we hate them? And then forward. It's a big duplicity. I will say that some love between the previous prime minister and the current new candidate, Mr Sharc and Mr Karl Erjavac, is a duality. Before the elections they both talk about this, Mr Sarec says that he would never, in the first place, invite Desus to the government, Mr Erjavec says to Mr Sharpe that he does not have a kilometer, that he could be a good Prime Minister of the Government and that it would be a bitter taste. We now put this through and it was also a kind of bitter taste when the government went through when she gave in and threw things into the arms of others. Now that it's done, when it's actually getting things into a normal way, then you're backing each other up. All of this now tells me that Mr Erjavec will probably propose Mr Marjan Šarc as a minister for a counter-service. A list of these ministers, his candidates, I'd really like to see them, because they'd probably all have a big laugh together. Why? One of the previous MPs from LMŠ once told me at lunch that if after four months or five months of work of the previous ministers, Marjan Sarec could throw out five people, he would have thrown them out immediately because he wouldn't get a two. And now with the same maneuver, we're trying to do something better. So you want to do it again at all costs with this kind of political maneuver. This is unserious, unconstructive and harmful to your constituents. If you want some more Slovenian soldiers to do business with the Slovenian Army, then give Mr. Erjavac back to the Minister of Defence if you want our border to move a little further inland and then once again for the Foreign Minister. I'm just asking nicely, not for the President of the Government. Mr Karl Erjavec and the others mentioned by me will never again get any opportunities for the responsible and decisive leading functions of my Slovenia. I am firmly against the untrustworthy government of Janez Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word, and only Bevk will discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Respectable candidate, colleagues and colleagues! A constructive non-trust is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution as one of the possible ways to replace the government. It requires 10 signatures from Members and Members, and 46 votes that you do not have in the opinion of Members in the public opinion. And if you don't have them today, it's practically impossible for you to have them when you're putting up a government team, with a left-wing client in it. Who's the candidate for Prime Minister? This is a policy that, despite many affairs, always survives in some way politically. Not because he'd be so capable and unmistakable, but because, like all the affairs connected with him, you simply need political actors to survive. Voters gave him a clear signal at the last parliamentary elections. Despite the fact that the result of Desus was halved in the last elections, in the spirit of Western parliamentary democracy, he did not resign as party president or at least offer his resignation. Today you want to convince us that this is the best thing you can offer to lead Slovenia. The public opinion measurements published show that Slovenians and Slovenians do not trust him. He's the one who takes the last place on the popularity barometer. On the same barometer are the three ministers of Nova Slovenije among the first five after popularity among politicians. Apparently, citizens and citizens view them as popular or their work as good. Here I would mention only the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac, who has started to make concrete progress in his field and has successfully built modern and modern infrastructure. I am particularly pleased that, in addition to the construction of the second track, it has also started by placing regional lines, which will certainly help to make the train competitive for transport by car. It is certainly the legitimate right of the opposition to overthrow the government, but it is not right to exploit and manipulate people in distress. Above all, it appears that, like the previous government or the Levitical captive coalition, this is now the whole opposition. I feel that there is also a competition in the opposition for moderate customers, who will be more radical in their statements than the party of Levi. This is not good for Slovenia alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, and it'll be mag's turn. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! However, the day began when we would count in the National Assembly. Regardless of today's outcome, it is right that this uncertainty finally ends with the new Prime Minister of the Government and the new coalition or the old one, which would be the worst for the country. Notwithstanding the emergency situation caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, parliamentary democracy must also function under such circumstances. Unfortunately, we are, and we're gonna have to live with the virus for a while. The worst thing would be if the virus, with the help of the government coalition, would finally paralyze parliamentary democracy. We should've had this session a long time ago. Political instability and uncertainty do no good to anyone. The fencing and stalling were too much, something thanks to the coalition, and some thanks to the opposition. In particular, a coalition which opposed the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which would allow for a remote vote. Apparently, the ruling coalition has a strong partner in the virus itself. If there was no agreement on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, it would be possible to protect the sovereignty of the legislator as much as possible in order to allow for the prioritisation of vaccination against covidu-19 for both Members and all employees in the National Assembly. Clearly, though, there is no special willingness in the congregation’s leadership to organize vaccinations, perhaps thinking about what people will say. But this is the most appropriate situation for Prime Minister Janez Janša and the current coalition that holds the entire National Assembly hostage. I deeply regret the accommodating resignation of former Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who, in other words, pushed the government into the hands of the current President. But it's too late to ring the bell. I remember very well the partnership for development in the first Yanshe government. That's when we got paid for this cooperation. Two years later, the Social Democrats won the national elections and for the first time in recent history led the government. The current offer by the Prime Minister of cooperation does not seem sincere to me. Too many anti-Korona laws have called subsets who had no connection to the epidemic, since it was mostly the intensely partisan interests of the coalition party. Not to mention the weak conduct of the fight against the epidemic at its second stage, the sub-system sub-system sub-system sub-systems, the human tsunami and the senseless argument with the cultural sphere. The Coalition Agreement of the Coalition of the Constitutional Loka between 2021 and 2022 sets four priorities. First of all, the health of the population, the environment and the fight against climate change, the preparation for a decade of development and, of course, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Clear government priorities include health, solidarity, the environment and development at a total value of €14 billion. In the area of cultural activities, the funds will increase by 2.2% of the state budget. We will put the professional competences and references for the management of cultural institutions at the forefront, and we will set up independent expert committees for programme and project calls, and we will also establish a dialogue with civil society. We will promote high-quality creativity and culture and ensure the proper position of self-employed people in culture and accelerate the implementation of cultural, infrastructure projects and end the war on culture and sign a peace agreement with the cultural sphere. I'll vote in favour, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, and after him she will have the word of Lydia Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u166	Vice President, thank you very much. Introductory. In the middle of the coronavirus epidemic, breaking down the government means that in fact the proponents of this constructive non-trust institution do not understand the needs of the Slovenian people. Above all, they do not like him in this respect. All parties united in the KUL, led by Mr Erjavec, are rebuffing this epidemic with only one purpose, the overthrow of the Government's actions, and with the sole purpose of taking power. It's a really depressed start. You are going exclusively for privileges, it is clear at first sight, and of course that your ideological travellers will continue to be powered by various NGOs to make a great deal of money here, and are once again put into some trench revolutions against other thinkers. On the other hand, we have the government of Janez Janša, who, I would say, helped all segments of the population with record eight PKPs across from other governments. It is said to all those who need help, no one has stayed behind, no one has been forgotten, and the economy has remained flexible and vital despite the bad conditions. Slovenia is currently the country with the highest growth of construction in the European Union, 18.4 growth over the inter-annual period. Of course, this investment will be made by Maribor, from which I come as an MEP myself. Just a few projects, so much so that you have examples of what the government has done for the second largest city in this bad year for the Styrian capital. State funds and cohesion funds are provided under the current government for a new infectory clinic in Maribor, 55 million, for a new cultural centre Rotovž worth 12 million euros, for the reconstruction of the sports hall of Tabor at the amount of 3.5 million euros, for the renovation of the promenade in the Maribor City Park 3.6 million, for the top scientific research equipment at the University of Maribor at 29 million and so on. Once again, all of this under the rule of John Janša and all of this during a bad year. Therefore we build hard and hard all the time, and you break it down shamelessly. It's sad. But as if destroying these measures is not enough for you, even more – before listening to Mr Koprivac – you would now be shouting from the stolen Jewish villa about morality, crime, corruption. In the meantime, you also bow to the discarded types of Kidrič, leaving behind unpaid accounts from election campaigns and, of course, overpaid projects such as TES 6, you also leave behind. All this at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. You're the last person to talk about it. And Mr. Karl Erjavec. Of course, as a candidate for the new President of the Slovenian Government, we would expect you to know Slovenian people and feel their needs until you visit, and you say in interviews that you do not understand the Slovenian people. I was frayed when I saw in the last Youth that Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavec explained that he understands francophones more than the Slovenians. What's that? Shame. You are not a candidate for any ex-colony of Frankofons, but you are a candidate for the President of the Slovenian Government, Mr. Karl Erjavec! Such a person, who thinks so publicly of the Slovenians, cannot really lead the Slovenian government and will not. The political experience of Mr Erjavac is well known. He's bragging about being a minister six times. I personally estimate that wasn't exactly the most working, quality minister. In those areas where he was cheering, he did not contribute to some terrible solutions, and I estimate that it was the other way around, that he created always new problems and problems. I know it's already a winter theme about these buckets, but there were a lot of other things. Nothing good is this, Mr Erjavec, for the mandate holder for the composition of the new Slovenian Government. Your political power has also been repeatedly exposed in this National Assembly in the context of this constructive non-trust. 394 votes is a collection of votes that is really not enough for a city councilman in some medium-sized congregation. This is actually a real reflection of your political powerlessness. The Latin river Nomen est omen, since we all know it, the name of purpose, will today prove to be an antidote in your case. In fact, Karl Viktor Erjavec, today your middle name will not be synonymous with the winner, but will be synonymous with the political and moral loser. I can easily see that today you really had your last chance at this temple of democracy to perform in this House, almost certainly you will never again be elected to this temple of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u167	Thank you very much. He asked the candidate for the new Prime Minister, Karl Viktor Erjavec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u168	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Ambassador Kaloh for his good wishes. Thank you very much. I hope that they will not come true as to whether I will ever visit the National Assembly again. However, I would like to say a few words about how we have put in a constructive mistrust, especially because we want to be flexible because we do not want to acknowledge the success of this government. We have made a constructive untrustworthy investment for two reasons. Because we do not agree with the current government policy, its concept, which has too many elements of authoritarianism. I will not repeat what I understand under this concept. And we are particularly investing it because this government is unsuccessful when it comes to the epidemic. You can turn numbers, you can brag, but the fact is we have the highest number of dead due to the covida-19 epidemic. For this reason, it would be right for this government to withdraw and leave it to the other government to deal with this epidemic more successfully. Also, the fact that we are now putting a constructive mistrust in this crisis, that it is a major problem, that it is something very ugly – I cannot agree with it. The Netherlands will now have elections, we know that the government has stepped down, similar to the Italian government, appointed a new government yesterday, held elections in Kosovo yesterday, will also form a new government, Portugal and so on. Therefore, this cannot be the reason why the opposition would not use this instrument at its disposal. Especially if we look at what the results are when we evaluate the government's fight against covida-19 epidemics. I believe you want to build a lot, concrete roads, sidewalks, and I don't know what, but the country isn't just sidewalks, it's not just roads, it's essential anymore. The country is also how certain democratic institutions are being strengthened, how media freedom is being allowed, how university autonomy is allowed and so on. As far as I'm concerned, I've been saying that I'm more on the Frankofon side than I am on the Slovenian side. You obviously read this interview very badly, as you know, I was born in Belgium, I lived there until I was 12 years old, and in the interview I just wanted to say that there is some different mentality, that there is no such thing as this encounter that we face in Slovenia every day, is not this envy, but we looked forward to the success of our schoolmates, friends and so on. For the successful one, it was a pleasure. But here I think it's not so many times, even if I look at this national assembly, there's never any special joy, we're always talking about how we need to work together, how we need to stick together, but we're really doing everything else. That was my point, and I must say, I'm always surprised at how deeply rooted this is. There may also be a need to do something in the educational system to ensure that our children are open so that they do not have any negative trends in advance. Because obviously we can see that there are consequences here, I don't know, maybe it's the consequences of World War II and World War II, because there was never any real reconciliation. I can tell you, as far as Belgium is concerned, that's where these problems don't get warmed up. These problems are buried forever and this is the good basis that gives some opportunities for one such open future, for one development, for one joy. It's interesting, for example, when it comes to sports results, then we're all like one, we're looking forward to it, but don't let the second time any Prevc jump a little bit worse, because then it's a national disaster. And that was the point in that interview, nothing in the sense that a less Slovene would be a more frankon. I'm a Slovenian, maybe more seduced than one who's been here all the time in his country. Because when I lived as a child abroad, I tell you, it was difficult to be a Slovenian because we were despised because they said, but these are the ones from Yugoslavia, from the Balkans, and there are no roads, and there are still oxen. And I had to explain as a child that it is not that we are a normal country, that we are a relatively developed country, that we go to schools, that we have drinking water and so on. It's just a sentiment from my childhood, and I'm asking you to respect that and not to imply that I'm a frankon now, not a Slovenian. My family have always been great Slovenians, and so have my children.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Replica Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Kaloh, I am sure that in all these hours you have not really understood what we are trying to say. Isn't it strange that you're always saying that you're doing everything great, even excellent, but people are finally unhappy? What are your claims? The government is working, our intentions are political, and we are two-sided. What's the government doing? He's taking enormous credits, no matter what conditions, and one day this money will have to be returned, no one will write it off. He's been making calls for his companies, we've proven this a number of times. He doesn't do anything in the summer, and then in the fall he tries to put out the fire quickly. Because that doesn't work, he starts looking for those responsible quickly. People are dying, and it's the former government, the former minister, the media, today we've heard that even people, because they're old. Protesters, opposition, the Slovenian strain of the coronavirus, we have already heard that. Is it then politics, or is politics, to brag about failures, to keep looking for on-call culprits, to introduce autocratic methods, to say even dictatorial methods? Money runs through all seasons, but there is no control, and there are no convincing answers. That's duality. Not that we found consensus in the List of Marjan Sarcas and the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc to change this state to cut it. This is a state you created yourself. You created it yourself. It is unsustainable, unnatural and, in my personal opinion, probably a lot of people in this building who agree to it are dangerous. It's dangerous for the whole society. So I would ask that in the future, when you're doing a whole section of our thinking, sometimes give a little pause, well. You report to the candidate that he was a six-time minister, while at the same time boasting in the same sentence with the eight crowns that we are constantly repairing. Why? Because they don't work because you haven't prepared them properly and you've come to know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Lydia Ivanus. She'll be given the word Ljubo Žnidar if there's any time left, or Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u172	President, thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone! Since there's very little time left, I'm going to say three things. Your goal is not to build something better, but simply to demolish existing ones at all costs. You're abusing the coronavirus epidemic for political struggle and for coming to power. We work for the well-being of people and our country, you want to get the money that Janez Janša has provided from the next European perspective. Remember how Miha Kordish said that it was necessary to force entrepreneurs with bayonets into the sea and to nationalize their businesses? What do Mr Han and Mr Bandelli, who have their own businesses say about this? Do you really want to be with Kordish in the coalition? If so, then donate your companies to the state to nationalize them. And the last. We are building, you are tearing down, so I believe that this will be the only thing the infidel will do and that tomorrow we will do as we have done, for the benefit of Slovenia and the citizens, for the good of the Slovenian countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u174	I never said that it was necessary to force entrepreneurs into the sea with bayonets, which is a pure lie and a fabrication. But the SDS doesn't know anything about lies and fiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u175	Dude, that wasn't a procedural or a replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Who and what? Let's be serious, let's take the debate as it should be, to the place. Michael Prevc has the word, and she's going to get the word Natasha Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Respectable candidate for a term of office, respected colleagues and colleagues! Where a constructive non-trust is invested, one would expect two people to have sufficient support from the applicants, and in particular to try to come up with a better candidate for a new mandate. But is Karl Erjavec really a better candidate? On the left side of the past, you did not have the best opinion on him, but now just because you need a mandate holder, you are proposing him. In Mladina, it is said that the week, which supports the Slovenian Left with all its strength, mentioned on Friday the possibility that left parties will fail this time and that this will also be a success. You know in advance that it won't work, and yet you insist. What we have seen in the last year is the severe abstinence crisis of the left-wing parties. After years of rule, you gave up your own rule, and then you quickly realized that you couldn't do without it. The symptoms of the abstinence crisis include the nervous counting of the votes of its Members, the months-long hot search for a mandate-holder, non-participation in such important matters as the fight against the pandemic, new and new media spins, verbal attacks and various forms of aggression. All Members from the first to the last were elected to work as representatives of the people for the good of Slovenia, regardless of whether politics has put us in a position or opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have three more panellists to report. First he gets the word Nataša Sukič, followed by Maša Kociper and Luka Mesec. My colleague, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Do you know what the latest anti-cassette action of the government of Janez Janša is? That they have taken away the megaphone, symbol and free-word tools from the protesters before Parliament. That's what happened a little earlier. But an older woman was dragged away and put in a box just because she stood in the square of the Republic. And all the time, you're moralizing, in the middle of an epidemic, you're tearing down the government -- is that right? What if we asked ourselves how you brutalize the police in the middle of an epidemic that's bad enough for people? This is exactly the empirical evidence of the diagnosis, which is the notorious undemocraticity syndrome of the government of Janez Janša. Otherwise, as for the acquisition of medical equipment in the fight against covid, none of them were going as well. The government couldn't buy clean equipment even when it bought masks or when it was buying fans or buying fast antigen tests. Millions of our money literally explodes into the air for equipment that works or doesn't work and that's supplied by your profiteers, say the boys from the Caribbean. The fact is, if you are so far aware that we have not yet had such an incompetent and incompetent government, which is particularly severe in such acute epidemiological situations. Neither so authoritarian nor so repressive. Instead of directing all forces into an effective fight against the epidemic, the Government is engaged in impacting the breakdown of independent investigative and control institutions, media, STA, judiciary, NGOs, attacks on intellectuals, and is plaguing the public university. Meanwhile, the interior minister sends over the people slaves with long-term semi-automatic weapons, and he goes to the border to check the work not ours, but the Croatian border police. But the Prime Minister tweets and tweets every day and rules with intimidation and decrees. His daily record to trust you is 179 tweets and retweets, at a time outside a wild epidemic. All the nonsense and absurdity of this government are spoken of in the question and conclusions of the daily columnist Miran Lesjak, who I will add to them a few more of my own. Say, why have we had a curfew for four months? Why can we buy baby shoes in a supermarket and not in a specialized child shop? Why can hairdressers work, and why not cosmetic salons? Why are the car washes closed? Why can I buy empty masks and not sweaters in stores? Why can’t social work centres provide personal assistance to those in urgent need since autumn? Why aren't the watchmen working? Why should a public veterinary institution not castrate cats but may be castrated by a private veterinarian? Why didn't the kids go to school for so long? Why do we poore their access to knowledge and thus take away their future and thus further deepen class differences in the perspective? Why are we on the deathbed because of the virus? Why does he die needlessly for a busload of people? 3,000 977 dead due to the virus, respected and respected. Three thousand 977. Older, sick, isolated and many with permanent health consequences due to infection. That's why every government with a handful of highs and should have given up. No, you're going to reconstruct it. What's in it that's ripe for reconstruction? Are these perhaps the boots of the interior minister, the backbone of the ministers of education and agriculture? Is it necessary to reconstruct the evil that stems from the Ministry of Culture, the ambitions of the Minister of Defence, the intellectual breadth of the Minister of Economic Affairs, the anti-environmental approach of the Minister of the Environment? Is that what you're going to reconstruct? Do we want freedom or do we want the tyranny of one man and one party? That's the question. It's time for you to ask yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Luke Moon can also get the word. He's not here, so we're done with the general debate. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a candidate for the new Prime Minister and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the candidate for the new Prime Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, too, for the fruitful debate that has been going on virtually all day. I think we've exchanged views, and it turns out that we have conceptual differences, that we see the government differently than the current government. We believe that the policy implemented by the current government does not lead in the right direction; we see its inefficiency when it comes to dealing with the covida-19 pandemic, we see that, as far as the foreign policy situation of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, we are referring to countries with problems with the rule of law. We see that measures are being misused to interfere with the freedoms of people. I still don't understand why we still have a curfew today, for example. The profession has made it very clear that this is not necessary at the moment. So today, dear Members, you do not decide on Karl Viktor Erjavac as a mandate-holder, but you decide above all how you see the future of Slovenia by the end of this regular term. I believe that the new government would better manage the country, respect constitutional principles, in particular the independence of constitutional institutions, the judiciary, the police, not to list all other institutions, from the Court of Auditors to the Statistical Office, nor would they interfere with the freedom of the media, nor would they have had such discussions on the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u181	Just a minute. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u182	I think that at a time when we are dealing with the biggest epidemic, such discussions are completely irrelevant and unnecessary because the Slovenian Press Agency has shown that it has been doing its job well over the past 30 years. Last but not least, you have the opportunity to decide whether you agree with this policy of the current government or you want a different policy that will be more friendly to people who will not change their decisions daily when it comes to measures on the epidemic, for a government that will have a concept that respects the rule of law, human rights, the profession, the autonomy of the university. It's up to you. Today, I am aware that this is mainly a splinter of a certain state and a certain moment, today you can take this opportunity. If you do not, the next opportunity will certainly be when the parliamentary elections are held. Voters and voters will tell us what concept of the future of our country they want, such as the one offered by the current government, or the concept that I am offering as a mandate holder, as one that could shape a new government, of course, if you give me your trust. I am sure that if you vote for my mandate, this voice will not be cast away, but it will be a voice that will lead Slovenia back to the right path, to the right path between the countries of the Central European Union, to the path of countries where the rule of law is a sanctuary, where police work is independent of the current policy, where institutions can breathe freely and where people will not live in uncertainty, what they can expect in the future. It's up to you to decide. I offered my knowledge, my experience. If you accept them, I will be grateful to you and will perform this task to the best of my ability, honourably and for the good of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you again for all this debate. Good luck, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Vice President. In today's debate, which is in the final stage, we can actually find that the SDS party and the coalition partners involved in this have in fact given no serious argument why not. Not one. But they went to personal disqualification, which is what they're actually most skilled at. The act of constructive non-trust stated three reasons why we are investing this constructive non-trust and why it is no longer possible for this government to be trusted. Of course, it's the entire system's building on the President of the Government. The Prime Minister of the Government is the one who is responsible, the Prime Minister of the Government is the one who directs, the President of the Government is, in the end, the ones who fall fall, all fall. But what did we get with this Prime Minister of the Government? Did we get something we have already seen in Slovenia, in the Slovenian space? Of course we are. But every time he became Prime Minister, he was worse because he realized he couldn't make the same mistakes he had made before. The problem is not that he corrected his mistakes, but the problem is that he was totally concerned with legislation, the Constitution and the rule of law in that country in correcting his mistakes. That's the problem. At the cost of achieving his own goals. In my debate today, I mentioned the responsibility of ministers. I will appeal here today primarily to the responsibility of now, at this moment, as well as of the coalition partners who join such a government, the government of SDS or the government of Janez Janša. Why? I must say that I personally warned my colleagues when it came to deciding whether John Janša was able to trust or step into their coalition, what would happen. I am extremely sad today — and I should really be happy that all that I have said has come true, but I am sad — because it has come true. My colleagues have convinced me that I simply cannot believe this and that when an ideological debate arises and when it exceeds the coalition treaty, they will simply stop it. Where did Janez Janša stop? I tell you, Janez Janša is the only one who can stop himself. No one can stop him, only he can stop himself. And that's why these fairy tales are how good the organizer is and so on and how it is in a crisis situation, fairy tales for a good night. This is not true, but it holds something else — that the master of masters is in creating a crisis situation. If he's not, he's gonna do it. He's got no connection. What's the damage? This today is shown in what we saw in one year. Even abroad, she found out who was the one called Marshall Twito. I didn't make it up, that's what they called it. Because of him and after him they even went with an algorithm to make a Twitter tracker so that today we can see how much time a day is involved in tweeting. I don't know what this president of the government is doing, but I imagine the presidents of the government are usually busy from morning to evening. But if I looked at how many tweets he created a day – sorry, any normal director in a serious economic society would have fired him for at least two reasons! First, because I would certainly embarrass him for the reputation of his company, and secondly for finding out that he was tweeting more than he was working! And the third problem is the consequences of these tweets. You all know this famous tweet. [[shows the object]] where he called for Bidn to be a weak member or one of the worst candidates who could be presidents of the United States of America. He says that this is nothing special and so on, and at the same time wishes all happiness and support to Trump and even congratulated him for believing that he had already been elected. Of course, according to these famous beliefs, as he has already done in Slovenia. It's nothing new, you know. We were all madly surprised that this was something new, but it wasn't! Remember, he used to say that his election was stolen. That's what keeps going on. If they stole his election, how did he let his term be confirmed? It's easy to argue with logic. With this tweet, of course, he has made Slovenia's international reputation in the world terribly poor, and especially in the country with which everyone is boasting today, and today I don't know how many times everyone has said how the minister visited it and to show how others have done it and he hasn't. Today I guarantee you, as long as Janez Janša is the president of this government, he will not see the United States, except in a private arrangement. He won't. Because the minimum is that they'll ignore it. By praising how much good he did for it, of course, he did not. Not to mention all the others he then continued to fight as a five-year-old child. This is not what the President of the Government is doing, but if the President of the Government wanted to take politics seriously, he would want to go a little bit of diplomacy and leave it to some others, and he would not do it in particular. Because he's the last one in the chain, and he's the only one who can fix the mistakes of those who would possibly do it wrong later. Who should correct Janez Janša's mistake now? Janez Janša? How? But you know, as long as Janez Janša is hurting herself, I have no problem with this when she starts doing it to the Republic of Slovenia, but I have very serious problems, especially if she is the President of the Government. One of the things we have talked very little about today is, however, a national document for recovery and resilience. You know, as long as we're talking about drinking water out there in Prekmurje, we're talking about some peach sandwiches that don't even know what they look like, and as long as we're talking about a minister going across the border to control other sovereign state police officers, for which he hasn't been trained or called or anything — knowing he already knew in Koper that he doesn't have a test and that he can't go through, and it's even going to say, still, he takes his mother and makes masks there, and so on and then both ministers say that they're happy if they've made them better all week, because they've been doing such an enormously generous joy in their homes, that they can laugh -- it's no problem. However, I have a very serious problem if you are making a document worth 5 billion 200 million, which will have long-term consequences in Slovenia, where we will talk about things you deny. You deny climate change, carbon footprint, you deny everything, and we should spend one third of that money in this document just for that. And what's most sad is that you don't trust your citizens, your minds, your Slovenian minds, which is immensely large, you don't trust and make a secret document. This is a serious problem for me and I have serious problems with this government, how to continue working with it. On the one hand, he invites us to cooperate, but on the other hand, he has a secret document. Let me explain how we're going to work together. What's that gonna look like? It's interdisciplinary coordination. Minister Cernač said that, as long as inter-resortmental coordination takes place, he cannot show this document. Please! Do you know how many documents have already been produced in Slovenia that are key to Slovenia and have been made publicly available? Not just us, in all countries, democratic of course. In France, Belgium, Austria, these things are discussed in public. Publicly, they have no reservations, because in the end the decision will be made by the one who has to make the decision. But for ideas and suggestions it is more than clear that it is right to give them Slovenian intelligence together. I do not believe and do not believe that one minister and six officials can represent Slovenian intelligence. Sorry, that doesn't work out. It just doesn't work. There's no such thing as intelligence in that department. You know why? Because things are too extensive and beyond their knowledge they should have. Therefore, there is, of course, a serious thought and thought in all those who will wonder how to make a decision about a constructive non-trust today. Here I appeal primarily to all Members and Members of Parliament who have a dilemma, a dilemma before at least two things. One is sure to fear whether we still have a job or not if we vote differently. Many people fear whether they will still sit in this House or not and see this as just an existential issue. Excuse me, you know, being a Member is not a profession in the sense of a job we're doing from eight to three, but it's a mission. This mission must be proved and excused every day, not only when we decide and debate, but also when it is up to us to decide that this government simply cannot have confidence anymore. It is then necessary to push aside these existing problems. But if you've come into politics just by accident and you're just here now and you think it's right to insist on the end, but until the end, it has no connection, what will be the price in the end, sorry, it's irresponsible, it's selfish. That's when one wonders why we're even doing this. I really hope he wins his mind. Understand. And above all, that you will show this way what needs to be shown, what is heard many times in this hall, and this is that we work for the people. In this Chamber today, I have heard at least 50 times in today's debate on the other side the same password that they set for themselves today as a red thread: we build, you break. I'm sorry, this is not a discussion. With arguments. At the beginning of his debate today, the Prime Minister called on us to come out with numbers. We came up with the numbers, where are your numbers? We didn't hear them today. We've only heard what you know best today, and that's to say pictures of them walking around without a mask. [[shows the object]] This government was walking around with no masks, that's what you used to say. Go ahead, it was your mantra. That's pretty good for you. Watch another one. [[shows the object]] This one is also very beautiful, beautiful, and none of them have a mask, and they should have one. But you know, I can't tell them to spread the virus because no one got over it there, except maybe someone I don't know about because it's personal information. But using this way of communication, you know, we won't get far. You've called everyone for patience, but at the same time, you've been very impatient. You're very impatient. I'm afraid I need to speak in the crowd. It's not like it was, but plural because it's not different, because you know, more than two, more than three is already plural. Let me finish in the form of what hurt the most today. I must say that in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism we have not yet understood or yet we have not understood what it actually means to be a Member and to raise a voice. Today it's become modern to predict that you won't raise your voice. Today, one of my longtime professional colleagues, not from the parliamentary group, has been working in the National Assembly for years and years – they have feared that there is something such that the Member will simply not raise his voice, that he does not have the courage to say anything else. Why? Well, because of me, you can draw bears on loudspeakers, if you want, it's your free choice. Dr Ciril Ribičič published and wrote a beautiful book on the control of Members and described 12 ways in which a Member is controlled in the vote. You know, sometimes the balcony was open, the photos were up and they took pictures and so on. The MPs went out and showed their voices like this. [[shows with gesture]] And up there he took pictures of him from the balcony, so he had proof that he really was. There were no cell phones at the time. We have been fighting against this all the time, so today, when the camera is being photographed, there are no more photographers to maintain and ensure the MP's safety so that no one can control him as he votes. There used to be a vote in front of the hall, you know, now they're in the hall for safety. But very few Members know this, except for the one you've been in this house for many years. Here I appeal to everything, no matter what they tell you and what your existence is, believe me, that you will sleep most peacefully when you really vote on your own conscience and decide what is best for Slovenia. Just have the courage and at least do it with dignity, go to the cabin, take the ballot and decide as you need to. Unless he's been marching Tweety again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u185	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. I take it it's an interest. If they also wish to discuss the President of the Government, the candidate for the new President of the Government and the representative of the proposer, please also apply with pressure to turn on the microphone. In this case, they get the last word. Applications are under way. Each one has 3 minutes and 50 seconds. The first word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I cannot support the proposed destructive non-trust. It is not possible to give confidence to a person who has probably received at least the votes of all candidates in the 2018 elections, 394 votes that do not even know the titles of ministries and mentions the Ministry of Education, which has been missing for nine years, but is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Secretary of State replaces him as an official. The one you compare with the former six-time Minister of Finance, Mr. Bajuk and Mr. Drnovsk – Dr. Andrej Bajuk was a top expert from the World Bank, who did not even run as an MP in 2000, and was then elected in 2004 and was a successful finance minister in the government led by Janez Janša. Drnovšek, however, was elected as a member of the last Yugoslav Presidency, strongly defeated the competitor of Bulc and participated in the independence process. So the people who did compete and were elected in some way. Unfortunately, Mr Karl Erjavec, with his very general statements, does not convince and can't convince anyone who thinks about showing any results. This government has done a great deal in one year. She has saved hundreds of thousands of jobs, saved businesses to function, is the hope for young people, is the hope for older ones. That's why I'm going to support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. In the proposal for a new mandate holder, you are in violation of the principles of constitutional regulation. May I remind you that the Constitutional Court has found that you have abused authority, including Comrade Erjavec and the other from SD, when you took away Janez Janša's mandate. So, you've violated the Constitution, now you're reading what you're doing to others, you're reading to us. That's why we fall in the time of the left governments on the charts of democracy, if you're wondering why. Mr Erjavec also acknowledged the authority of John Janša. Whoever is the authoritarian leader of the client, we've seen in the last month or two when you threw your colleague Polnar out of the party because he put up a mirror for you and told you what a manipulator you are to overestimate your abilities. Maybe that's it. You said you'd terminate the supplementary health insurance. You've been a car for a while, I'll say, or outside of the event, and maybe you don't know that this is the point where they were fighting in the previous coalition and that this was also one of the reasons that the previous coalition broke down. We wouldn't want to see that again. And now a few more quotes. Mr Šarec said: "I will say very honestly if the situation were normal, Karl Erjavac would not support it." Luka Mesec said: “I am very unhappy with what has happened in KUL in recent days.” Mrs Fajon said: “I support the Eryvka because we currently have no other name.” As much as you believe in the candidate Karl Erjavac as you believe in the presidents of KUL's parties, we see from these quotations. And now this declared orchestra is trying to convince us that if Mr Erjavec had been named, we would have started to play the defense. For a year and a half you've been together, the effect is very bad, nothing from nothing, now you're full of ideas. In order to stay in the opposition for a while, at least until the next election, you will be able to prepare a program and then we will be able to talk about it. Because being against Janša is not a program. In today's presentations, we haven't heard any predictions about what you're going to do, what you're proposing, and so on. Again only mud, insult, accusation and so on, what we have been used to lately and which is a disaster for the political scene in Slovenia, for this Parliament. I am sure that a constructive untrustworthy woman will not succeed, I am sure that Karl Erjavec will not be a mandate holder, that is, the President of the Government, and thank God that is the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. For me today, however, it is more crucial than whether a constructive untrustworthy person succeeds or not – of course, I wish to succeed – that before my constituents and all those who have elected a party to the SAB, I have maintained some attitude, some policy that we have promised in the elections, and that I have actively sought to ensure that this government, which most Slovenes think is not good, that it is harmful, that it goes away and that it comes to one another. Therefore, it is crucial for me to have a government with a majority of people's confidence, a government supported by most Slovenians, which will be followed by most Slovenians in these difficult times. And that's not the government. That is why for me today this is not a debate about Karl Erjavac as a candidate who has managed and highlighted himself for this mission, but also, in particular, a debate on the existence of Prime Minister Janez Janša. In fact, he's the one we're telling the truth about. Janez Janša, of whom I was personally convinced, is the same as many of you that he will never again have the opportunity to become Prime Minister and to form a government. And he got it. Things turned out so bad, he got it. And when it did, I was sure that it would take advantage of this opportunity and rule in a different way, in a different way, with a different communication than before. But he didn't make it. Apparently, he doesn't know anything else. His Twitter profile says more about him than it does in Parliament. His comparisons of people he doesn't like, journalists, experts and others tell a lot about him as a human and that's why people don't follow him. Since the Prime Minister likes bass and frogs, I'll tell him one more time when I think about him. Here's the deal. On one island there was once a frog and a scorpion, and when the river — which was a river island — began to grow because of the rain, the scorpion said to the frog: “Dear frog, please take me on your back and bring me across the river to the other side to save myself, otherwise we will both die.” The frog said, "Why should I save you, scorpion? You are a scorpion and you will bite me, but without you I can flood the river and save my life." But the scorpion asked her and asked her, and in the end, the frog took him on his back. They were swimming, swimming, and when they almost got to the other side, the scorpion was pecking the frog. When she was dying, the frog said: “What is wrong with you, scorpion? Now we're both going to die." And the scorpion said, "Dear frog, I can't help myself, I'm a scorpion." I often think that this is just John Janša, he can't help himself. He has some division, some resentment, some antipathy, some frustration over old times and old grudges, and these frustrations make him a bad president, and according to his political and intellectual abilities, he could be good. But unfortunately, this attempt to connect the Slovenians for the third time, in some fight against a health problem that has affected the whole world, has united us at a point when we can really unite, failed. He didn't know, or he didn't want to, because he's John Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. Maybe there's something I don't understand in this room. On the one hand, we hear that we have the best government, and on the other hand, we have the worst epidemiological results, despite the highest levels of debt in Europe. It just doesn't work out. Something doesn't hold here. The fact is that we are all together, as a country, as individuals, as an economy, as people, in a difficult situation, that is true. On the one hand, we have a pandemic the world has never seen before, and on the other hand, we are witnessing the dismantling of the institutions of the country, institutions that are the foundation of every democratic, advanced country in the world. These institutions should also be carriers of the fight against pandemics, and in Slovenia we are witnessing brutal attacks on these institutions, disqualifications from prosecutors, judges, universities, media and even the Constitutional Court. And in the shadow of that, there's going to be rapid shifts to hundreds of people with ours. Thus, we create, on purpose or unintentionally, a fairly voluntary power structure, which is also properly exercised by the authorities. In this way, the President of the Government successfully moves into very narrow circles without the proper participation and participation of the profession, without adequate knowledge and experience, without any teamwork and coordination of various aspects. Without mentioning it in today’s world, a very complex world, overcoming the situation we are in is very difficult or impossible to succeed. Instead of seeking support, cooperation, dialogue, consideration of other views, opinions and proposals, threats, punishment and persecution are preferred. This is not going through in Slovenia. The way in which the current rulings are handled, the government's written meetings without discussion, the rule over a narrow circle of listeners in the cabinet, with the majority of parliaments that consistently overrun the opposition, by banning direct democracy, thus banning referendums – that is how we do it. Parliament is essentially suspended in this way. But he caught his spin, and we heard him today: let us do our work. Well, we are, definitely. The opposition has actually been very nice for a long time, but these results are not working. Nevertheless, today and otherwise, we are experiencing arrogant rejection and denial of facts and democracy. Today, we were told by the President of the Government that we are spending taxpayers' money, or that when we go to democracy when we go to Parliament, we have become unnecessary. I don't think this arrogance is the case at all. The Prime Minister knows exactly what he's doing, he knows that he would be harmed by any indulgence in the power of arrogance, with which he quickly and untransparently adopts the key levers of power. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Like many times in the past, Prime Minister Janez Janša missed or took advantage of a unique opportunity to remain silent. Remember, Mr Janez Janša communicates with the public, with people, with different stakeholders through tweets, sends threats, measures and conclusions to the Government at least an unusual time with validity the following day. This is a matter that causes a loss of trust in people. This government doesn't have people's trust, and yet, I'm going to say at home that it's money. The government's got money all over the place, and people don't like it. The measures it takes are ineffective, as shown by the fact that we have the most dead per million people, that we have the longest closed schools, that we have historically the highest public debt, that we have a record fall in economic activity, and that the Government has needlessly endangered 300,000 jobs by its actions. She didn't save them. She threatened them. For the first time in her life, the workers were put on a pole and forced to ask for social assistance. This is the result of the work of this government. When we talk about ratings, about 60-year-old bonds, this means nothing more than that lenders don't believe that the government can pay the commitments it now accepts in due time, but that it burdens not only the next generation, but also the generations that are not yet born, grandchildren from grandchildren. This is the reason why the government has to fall and why it has to get a mistrust. This is the reason why the government has to fall and why it has to get a mistrust. It's unacceptable for them to gossip about the dead. It is unacceptable for the Government to take measures that have no effect. It is unacceptable that the Government does not control the consequences of the measures it takes. It's not allowed to manipulate data. It's forbidden to threaten people. It's unacceptable that on Twitter it tells us who's gonna have to be held. All of this we have witnessed in these days. This is also the reason why we need Mr Erjavac's new mandate, and I will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u196	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, citizens and citizens, once again a nice greeting! I still remember myself, but I believe that there are at least three more in this room, four in this room, what pre-election confrontations looked like before this assembly of parliament took place. All the presidents we were there said we would not go to the government led by Janez Janša. By paying attention, John Janša, you do not mean a person. Think of a way of ruling that is completely contrary to our beliefs. Think of it as a way of managing when the state is running authoritatively in a way that, if you think otherwise, if you're different, if you're in a different political field, you'll be attacked, and through your media we'll massacre you. It doesn't matter whether you're guilty or not, we have the power, we have the media, we can scare people, we can lie about people, we can push people, because we don't have media legislation yet, so that those who do this can be punished. I am still thinking about what happened when Mrs Ludmila Novak said: “We will not.” And she didn't speak for herself. She spoke for her client. When the presidents and the presidents of the parties come to the polls, they make promises not on their own behalf, always on behalf of the party. Ludmila Novak: “We will not go.” And Ludmila went somewhere else and the party completely changed. I remember Mr Cerar's words: "We will not go under any circumstances." And look at him, the party president and the party are changing thinking completely differently than if she didn't make a promise to her people. I remember Mr. Erjavac's words: "We will not go because we have experience." The President of the party is being replaced and everything turns upside down again. The only party that has replaced the President after six years – since it is time to be president forever means that the party has been kidnapped, you need to understand that you have the opportunity to do something, the Social Democrats have grown substantially under my leadership, have renewed the programme, and it is time to move on – and we are the Social Democrats in our position. I'm proud of that. But once again, all the parties who are in the current ruling coalition, except for the SDS, have made different promises to their constituents. But that's not my problem, that's not the problem with Social Democrats. When you go to the elections, you will talk to the voters and voters you left behind because you promised differently than you did. What's our common problem is that the current coalition isn't working. Many thought when Mr Janez Janša came with his people – because I don't know how to say it – but at least he is an organiser, he is a strategy, he will know, and on the most important issue in the last few years he has been burned on the entire line. Because he didn't understand that people shouldn't be threatened. He didn't understand that people don't forgive, they don't forgive if you trade professionally with kimows, and they don't forgive if you're not an example. If you give limits, the one who gave the restrictions must be a double model. And now people who are essentially good are guilty of this health collapse. Thank God we have good public health, that all these mistakes have been remedied to some extent, but this is public health, which we have been taking decades back and we have to keep it safe. The reason why it is necessary to give Karl Erjavc an opportunity is – with everything you've read to him and it was personal – but it should not be – that, believe me, he is a significantly better candidate for a mandate holder than the current President of the Government. Substantially better [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word is Love Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u198	Dear candidate, Mr Karl Erjavec, you can use your unconstructive distrust tomorrow on a deserted day in Cerknica, and I do not attribute any great success to you there. In your introductory address to the citizens, you talked the citizens into lying. I quote: “The opposition has constructively supported the measures of the epidemic.” Eight anti-Korona laws were passed — how many did the opposition support? None, is it? That's what you call a clean lie. Let us consider some of the facts of unconstructiveness that we are witnessing. First time. Constructive action is the basis for effective crisis management. Another time. Constructive action means that we do not serve our own partial interests, but we are aware of the responsibility and role we have in serving the well-being of all citizens. Third time. Politics will and will always be a model for citizens, which is only possible when the political forces act in sync in the direction of a solution, even if they do not agree, and not in the destructive force of the struggle for power. Fourth time. When the power of the media is used to spread intolerance between citizens or to operate in a politically desirable direction, this is an alarm for the issue of human beings and thus social freedom. Fifth. Political leaders have the power to encourage moral and constructive, so we must use all tools and instruments as responsible managers, otherwise we must step back from solving the problem. Six. By using the manipulative tools we are witnessing, all good results are condemned to a negative public response and such misleading practices to a permanent collapse of the value system of all spheres of society. It's a week. The opposite political sex resorts to prosecution and guilt strategies every time they lack the true facts, which is evidence of a lack of knowledge, intelligence, evidence and human latitude, which should be the first in battle lines to overcome difficult situations in particular at the time of the coronavirus. Constructive action is the only way to create an insight into the real situation in society and the undesigned situation by the narrow interests of individual political decision makers or some media. Unconstructiveness has never built anything but at least a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u200	Thank you so much that I can tell myself when I lost confidence in this government, both professional and moral. Where this government belongs, it became clear to me from the very beginning when Janez Janša’s government had not been able to count fans for three months, even though we had already told them how many there were at LMŠ. They were listed on 25 February and also in writing all hospital directors sent them on 28 February, and all the data was in health care. This led me to lose confidence in this government. Still, you said you were saving lives, and for three months, you couldn't count fans in 15 hospitals. You know, if I were to be President of the Government alone, it would only take a few hours to get this information in this modern time of information systems, and here I think there should be no problem. We are in the second wave because of poor preparation and conflicting and controversial measures among the worst in Europe, not only in Europe, even in the world. The government, however, blames the opposition for its mistakes, professional personnel in hospitals, schools, homes, and even the people. You're just wondering if that's even possible. I'm sorry. And yes, your supporters are applauding this very well, and the profession is cruising. We all know the results of the first wave and we know the results of the second wave. Of course, it has not occurred to you to help health care during the summer to prepare for the second wave together. You did not listen to our expert, Dr. Andre Trampuz, at a well-known hospital in Berlin, who pointed out that it was necessary to prepare, which showed how to prepare for zero prepared wards for covid patients with all the equipment. Not to mention the preparation of new personnel ready to assist the first wave, the second wave and already the third wave in their hospitals. The expert committee, which was appointed and is to be chaired by Secretary of State Tina Bregant, has not met once. Why, because this was the decision of Prime Minister Janez Janša on Twitter? Why would a committee of experts meet for this? And today, the President of the Government is presenting to all, in front of the public the graphs that he has adapted to his own good and has denied to warn the world's profession, which ranks us among the countries that could not act in the second wave, which have the most dead in Europe and in the world. The public opinion on this government, the last of which is known, fell to under one third. This already indicates that the opposition must act, so this constructive untrustworthy woman is on the agenda today and should have been long ago. And if you ask me what will be the outcome today — see, even if we lose today’s battle, we will not lose the war. Why? As democracy is stronger, we are also reminded of it by young people, including high school students in the last period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u202	Thank you, President. I've said a lot of things before from a client's point of view, but I think there are a few points like this that we have to do again because I see that you don't understand. You are still boasting that you are the best in the last 30 years of our country. The greatest deception, your deception, the deception of the people is how much you have helped someone. Please! Who helped who? Did you help? Whose money did you help with? With mine, from Brannett's neighbor, from yours, from everyone. The taxpayer's money is the money we're all gonna have to pay back tomorrow, and you're banging on the chest here to help. You're lucky because there's no gold rule anymore, you're lucky because the fiscal world gives you 1 billion every time you come to the National Assembly. That's the truth, and that's what you have to tell people. This will have to be returned tomorrow, and boast that you've been doing credits, I don't know what currency or what, making some bonds by 2060! Thank you very much! Because there will be no more of you, no more of me, no more of you. The worst of all, the worst of all, the government of Janez Janša – I repeat, Janez Janša, because if it was earlier the fault of Marjan Šarec and Alenka Bratušek, who did not know what was to blame, who should have done a breast statue here because she saved Slovenia, it is now John Janša's fault! It's John Janša's fault now. For four months, he closed the bar. Are we aware of this? Nowhere in Europe has this been done. Nowhere in Europe. Four months. Three months of closed shop. Why do closed stores for three months, tell me. It hasn't been closed in three months! And there were rules, they could go in the other place, they could go in the wheelchairs, they were disinfected, and all the shops were open. It's okay. Don't talk to me because I know exactly what I'm dealing with. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, give it a rest, because you don't understand anything about it. Hotel service. What did you do in the hotel business?Oh, my God! They destroyed tourism, completely destroyed tourism! Completely. If you don't understand what Comrade Reich has told you, I'll tell you again that it goes into your ears, which you probably have blocked. You haven't spoken and you haven't saved 300,000 jobs, you've endangered 300,000 jobs! Let us once be clear about this because we do not know how many of these 300,000 will truly be saved from what will happen tomorrow. You don't realize that because you've always gotten one euro, you've never earned one euro. I'll tell you this in person so you can understand why. What you've been doing all summer, you tell me [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u203	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u204	What have you been doing here all summer? You blew everything you had to do. You talked so much about the second wave, but what was needed was to clean the pools down in Istria or I don't know what. That's what you needed. You didn't even build the emergency hospitals, container facilities when necessary. Then you made an investment here at UKC to build a new hospital for the money you put there. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't tell me who I know! Bahova, you really know how to build, I'm sorry. Yeah, well, you're an expert on why you're laughing there, and you're really an expert in construction. I'll make you a zero. What did you do because you crashed? We have the most dead in Europe, what it is, has never been in any of the countries. By having warehouses full! Because you said we had empty warehouses — you had warehouses full of them! And what did you do? Catastrophe. A living disaster. You know what? I tell you, look at the little information that happened, people are afraid to invest. Do you understand that or not? Look at the data on the building permits issued. Look at this. It'll pull one by one. So do one favor to the Slovenes, one after the other, let them resign. Ministers, Prime Minister, the only service to the state they would do is this. I'm really going to confirm the infidel with my heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u205	Thank you very much. There's a candidate for the Prime Minister. Can I have some quiet, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I see that a constructive untrustworthy woman has very much upset this National Assembly, at least after the debate. I can see how alive she is, how loud she is, over time, also rude, even insulting to the candidate, but nothing bad. I estimate that the matter is ripe for decision, and it would probably be best to raise the votes and decide. It is clear whether we want to continue to have the policy of the current government, or whether we want a different policy. As a mandate-holder, I can provide you with a different policy that is friendly to people. I would also make sure that the debates in the National Assembly are more friendly because this debate does not lead anywhere. And when the arguments ran out, they obviously ran out, the only thing I can hear is that Karl Viktor Erjavec was six times a minister, he didn't do anything, he was incompetent, and I don't know what he was doing, full of readings. This is typical of anyone who wants a certain change if he wants to do something for this country. Remember the President of the Court of Auditors. What this man and his family experienced only because he produced a draft accounting report. And we could also list individuals who are disqualified, discredited. Unfortunately, I have had this experience today, and I think this is mainly the result of the fact that there are no arguments. Answer me a simple question: Why did almost 4,000 people have to die because of covid-19? Answer that question, and then you will be able to deal with the peace of mind with my candidacy and with all that I have done in my life, including as Minister and also as Minister of your government. I remember when I was in your government, I was always a valued and excellent minister. And strangely enough, the moment you're no longer in this government, you're no longer valued and you're no longer a good minister. But unfortunately these are the rules of democracy when once you're an opposition, once a position, and I don't resent that. However, I resent the use of discredit because you do not have the answers to the questions that the opposition Members have addressed to you here today, why the situation is what it is, why we are most ineffective when it comes to fighting the covida-19 epidemic. Here are the numbers. I don't know what numbers the Prime Minister has shown, but mostly I've seen some images, but the numbers are very clear and they're tragic. I also expect someone to regret that this has happened, to express their condolences to their relatives. I'll do it right now from this place. And perhaps, the President of the National Assembly, it would be appropriate to mark this with a minute of silence, because I fear that this will never happen in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u208	Thank you very much, President. In this last round, one and the same readings were flying again, which some cannot get rid of. And this is that the opposition has done nothing but destroy the attacks. Since we promised to discuss the facts at this meeting, I will talk about the facts instead of the pamphlets. On 10 November, we gave the first part of the measures to deal effectively with the government's epidemic under the KUL, the opposition parties that make up it. We didn't get any answers. Zero. On 3 December, we put forward a plan of measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic, explained for each measure separately, as we imagine, and we wanted to help this government. Government response: zero. On 14 December, we did our best again, and in the framework of the KUL, we proposed amendments to the Covida-19 Action Strategy, a fully detailed explanation of what we are proposing. The answer is well known, in Janez Janš's style: zero. And now you're saying we're breaking up. You know, 50 years ago, maybe someone else would have believed you, but today, unlike yours, our documents are published publicly on the website and you can go look at them. Everyone. We don't hide like you, hiding a plan that all Slovenians should see. Unfortunately, though, for eight packages, I don't know how many amended laws your President of the Government, who doesn't have the courage to sit here with us right now, thank you for not knowing what he's done, still another crucial problem in Slovenia. Even though we are already receiving a small portion of the vaccine and are vacciating the Slovenian people, we have a problem that we still have people who are infected and who go to work because they are afraid of losing their job and not getting paid. This government can't handle it. As long as this is the case, all of you who support this government are to blame for all who are leaving, but you don't have to leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote on the proposal by the 11 Members and Members for the election of Karl Viktor Erjavac as the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Franc Breznik Parliamentary Group SDS, Andreja Zabret Members' Group LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija Parliamentary Group Levica, Blaž Pavlin Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] One more time. I repeat. It's a technical problem. We're voting on the commission. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to keep the recommended distance between them when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the President of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that during a secret vote in the Chamber persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 20.55, i.e. in 10 minutes, and will last until 21.10. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9.25 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 20.47 and resumed at 21.25.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u210	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the proposal for the election of the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes on the conclusion of the vote on the proposal for the election of Karl Viktor Erjavac as the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 February 2021. 53 ballots were distributed, 53 ballots were delivered. There were six invalid ballots. There were 47 valid ballots. There were 40 votes in favour, with 7 votes against. Candidate Karl Viktor Erjavec did not receive most of the votes of all Members, so he is not elected as the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This concludes this point. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. The proposed candidate, Karl Viktor Erjavec, did not receive the required majority vote. On the basis of Article 116 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government was thus not given an untrustworthy vote and the President of the Government was not dismissed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for amendments and additions to the State Assembly Member within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Branet Golubović. At its 6th urgent meeting, on 9 February 2021, the Commission considered the draft act as a working body for the Rules of Procedure. Since, after the discussion, the Commission did not adopt the articles of the draft act with the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the meeting of the working body were concluded. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u211	Mr President, honourable Members, a nice greeting to the other Members as well. We had hoped that there would be a change of rules of procedure. We know that we had a majority with other parties 7: 4, but unfortunately this is not enough. The Member may also be sick and has a desire to vote but may not. He can be quarantined and he wants to vote, but he can't. He can be in isolation and he has a desire, but he can't vote. With our solution, which reminds us of the solution to the elections in the National Assembly, which are feasible, and with these “flying” commissions, we will also allow those voters and voters who cannot reach the electorate alone to legitimately exercise their constitutional right, that is the right to vote. We came up with a solution that was similar to the solution to how to vote in secret on things as they were today. It is not true what has already been said in the previous days – that the European Parliament, for example, does not allow this. The European Parliament also allows for remote secret voting through the digital system. Even the Congress of Social Democrats allowed for secret voting through the digital system. Not only did the National Assembly, as the highest authority, not only did it not allow us to vote digitally remotely, but those Members and Members who are sick and want to vote did not allow us to vote in the same way as in the elections. And who says that voting and elections are not the same – yes. In any case, it is the right, not the duty, to the right of Members and Members in this case, there is the right of voters and voters to give their vote if they wish to give it. And that was not possible in this national council. I believe that when we think about it and realize that life is moving forward, the next time we change the rules of procedure, we can go to a digital vote from a distance. With this, I thank all you who have voted for, with respect and respect, for this means that you have understood that the world around us is changing. Those who do not want to change are dinosaurs and will die out, and those who change will survive and evolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u213	As we all know now, the Rules of Procedure Commission has rejected the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which would allow members of the opposition groups to vote in secret on the basis of the epidemiological situation, i.e. those relating to covid-19. We also voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the SMC. Since the Commission has not adopted both the amendments tabled and the articles with the necessary two-thirds majority, the proposal was concluded at the Commission's own meeting. Let me remind you. A bad year ago, when the epidemiological situation had already dictated adaptation to the new circumstances even in the functioning of the National Assembly, amendments to the Rules of Procedure were adopted unanimously, allowing the meetings of the National Assembly to be held at a distance. The amendments at that time allowed Members to discuss and vote in a distance by means of information and communication technology at the meeting of the National Assembly. At that time, we had two options, namely, to ensure that, even during the epidemic, the further functioning of parliamentary democracy was ensured, or on the other hand, that, when an emergency was declared, the legislative authority instead of the National Assembly would be exercised by someone else. Of course, we did not agree to this in the SMC Group, together with the President of the National Assembly. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia became one of the first European Union parliaments to amend the business provisions due to the epidemiological situation. At that time, however, solutions were retained, as a sufficient two-thirds majority had to be sought at the time, resulting in the fact that remote voting could only be used in cases of public vote but not in secret. In the SMC, we had already warned about the need to resolve this issue, but there was no listening on the part of those who proposed these solutions at that time. It is therefore necessary to reject the entanglement of conspiracy theories and the imputation of hidden intentions of suspending the democratic decision-making of the legislative branch of power. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the National Assembly, in addition to its legislative and supervisory functions, also carries out an electoral function and appoints representatives of other branches of the Authority of independent state bodies to important places, and that they are decided by a more demanding majority in secret ballots. We would also like to point out that the National Assembly elects or appoints a whole range of top state officials, which is the specificity of parliamentary democracy. In addition, the research sector of the National Assembly has drawn up a comparative review, which shows that there is no Parliament in the compared countries that would allow the election of the President of the Government with remote access, but that different options, such as post-vote, vote by authorised persons, vote in the Court of Parliament from a car or similar, apply to other cases of secret ballots. However, this number of countries is very small and their parliamentary systems are extremely diverse. Nevertheless, we welcome every well-founded proposal in the direction of the organisation of remote secret ballots, for which we have already voted in the SMC, as we said, last year. However, as opposed to proposing a different proposal, we, together with the President of the National Assembly on the Rules of Procedure Commission, have drawn up proposals for amendments that suggested that the College of Presidents of the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret in the distance. This would also set the voting time. We have proposed that a higher number of mobile electoral commissions be set up to be supported by the professional services of the National Assembly. However, it was crucial for us to make it clear that the vote should be allowed at the Member's express request, that it is secret and voluntary, and that it should take place at the address where the Member resides. In doing so, we wanted to prevent pressure on a sick Member or a Member who, for example, would be treated in a hospital, perhaps in intensive care, to vote with help or because of the intensities of someone else. The rights he has as a patient, in our opinion, weigh the duties he has as a public official. Our proposals were not received by the majority. Notwithstanding the proposed changes, as in the form of the opposition's amendments, we have not opposed or supported them, as we are aware that the full exercise of the public representative function is an indicator of the democratic nature of the legislative branch. This important issue remains open for another time. We may be able to save him more successfully with a slightly less heated political space.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u215	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! After about one year, when the National Assembly is working in an epidemic, it is also said to be far away, since the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have changed, some experience has accumulated. There has been some experience of participating in distance meetings, including by voting in remote public votes. Of course, things aren't ideal or they don't work like on a running tape, but they work. In this situation, when everything shows that this pandemic is not going to calm down so quickly, we have proposed in the democratic opposition that the Rules of Procedure should be amended, supplemented by the possibility of a secret far-off vote. Several Members can find themselves in a situation where they are either quarantined because they are actually infected with the virus, whether they are in isolation and so on. Given that this means some serious intervention, not least in their right to exercise their parliamentary function, we have proposed that the National Assembly should ensure to such Members and Members that they are visited at home or where they are being treated, or where they are being quarantined, by an electoral commission, in a safe manner, also in accordance with the recommendations of the NIJ, which gave a positive opinion on the proposal, to carry out this vote. This may extend the secret ballots by an hour or so, but we estimate that it would be a time worth sacrificing to allow each Member and Member to perform their duties. With regard to ethical and moral reservations, I believe that this is primarily a matter of choice. If we don't even offer someone the opportunity to perform their function, even though I would like to, this is, in our opinion, a greater offense than giving them that opportunity. So, the possibility of deciding whether to vote in the distance also in secret ballots, or not to offer such an option – I think they are considering the possibility that such a option would be possible because, despite the medical condition, someone can decide or even want to vote. This proposal did not have any serious objections. We estimate that if political will were to be found, this would be possible to change the rules of procedure in this part, but that was not the political will. I'm not going to speculate on what caused the political will not to be found. I'll say we may have missed our chance this time. Some secret votes are expected in a short time, and very likely even at a time when the epidemiological situation will be the way it is, it is said that someone may still be quarantined or self-isolated. At that time, the question will be whether such a Member, who will not be able to vote, will decide to check this in the Constitutional Court. Such a possibility, however, does not end up with a potential unelected candidate who could lose some voice from this point of view. We supported this proposal, we also signed it and co-signed it, but the others did not or did not find this agreement or did not want to be part of this amendment, which the Slovenian Parliament might have put in place – as some of the first to change the Parliament to work remotely, they could also be among the first to do so. Unfortunately, this opportunity is now from the table, but it may be another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u217	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly refer to the issue of secret ballots by post. Members shall, on the basis of their request, vote in secret in the event of a sitting held at a distance, at home or at another agreed place. The opposition's initiatives raise more questions than answers. How can an unhindered contact be made with the Commissioner who is infected? It is necessary to hand over the voice personally and to make it possible for the voice to be broadcast personally and to enter into the directory. The only way to do this is to set up a voice box, a box and a directory in a specific location when the Commission comes to the infected Member. The infected Member shall not approach this city until the Commission has withdrawn. The infected Member shall complete and submit a voicemail, enter it in the directory and put it all in a box that can be disinfected from the outside without damaging the documents and withdraw. The Commission shall disinfect the outer compartment. In order to open the box and count the ballots, it will be necessary to wait three days, so the result of the vote will not be until three days. This also raises questions about ensuring compliance with the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure and also in the Constitution. However, there is still a risk of air infection if infected and healthy persons are kept in the same place for a short period of time. It's probably all supposed to be out in the open. So the changes you are proposing in practice raise more questions than answers. I would also like to highlight the research and documentation sector of the National Assembly, which has prepared a large-scale survey on this issue. The vast majority of countries do not know how to regulate secret ballots remotely. The conclusions say: “The results of the inquiry on the possibility of secret balloting outside parliamentary premises are as follows. In many countries they do not know this possibility.” They don't know. “Besides the Netherlands, Denmark, Austria, Romania, Germany, Switzerland, Albania, Liechtenstein, Finland, Portugal, Georgia, Hungary, Andorra, Italy, Moldova, Montenegro, San Marino, Iceland, Sweden, United Kingdom – Upper House, Cyprus, Turkey, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Czech Republic.” There is also no secret far-off vote in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. In March 2020, the Presidency of the European Parliament shall determine that the European Parliament shall vote in secret in the same manner as in public, except that the vote of individual Members is not published in the annex to the minutes and there is no provision on how the IP address of the Member's computer is hidden. So the secret ballot is not secret. It is also necessary to highlight the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states in its report: “The proposed amendments deviate substantially from the basic way in which Parliament operates and the current business arrangements, in order to ensure that the secret vote takes place exclusively at the seat of the National Assembly, in the meeting venues.” No matter what we do in New Slovenia, we feel that it is necessary to look at it from the human side. Because questions that call for a secret vote from home seem ethically questionable to us. When someone is sick, he does not think about how he will vote in the National Assembly, but looks at how he will survive, and he is interested in his health, not in his vote. We have not supported the amendment and updating of the Rules of Procedure in Novi Slovenije on the competent home committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the spring of this year, Members of the National Assembly quickly came together to ensure that those colleagues who are absent and who are not in the National Assembly, because they are infected, quarantined or self-insulated, should also be able to vote at a distance. We were one of the first in Europe to regulate such a way of voting. After one year of practice, almost one year of age, the solution found to be incomplete. In particular, it applies only to the holding of extraordinary meetings, and in cases where it is impossible to delay the adoption of a solution. At that time, however, the epidemic has shown that the National Assembly must also make other decisions that require it to carry out its regular work and carry out its electoral function. As we all know, a number of decisions made by this assembly are provided for by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure as secret ballots. Since we were not as united as we were in the spring to find an answer to this challenge, we have prepared a way for the opposition parties to resolve secret ballots in a practical and secure way, a way which is already very familiar to all of us in principle with the election of the State, a way that would also allow secret ballots with guaranteed privacy, secrecy and freedom of decision at the time of the epidemic for members of the public. The proposed solution with mobile commissions would also resolve the current breach of Rule 93a of the Rules of Procedure at any time, as further meetings are now being called upon to decide on fully ongoing matters at non-essential and regular meetings, in violation of the applicable provisions of the Rules of Procedure. And even though many of us have repeatedly gone to college with one eye, we have repeatedly warned in the SAB that this is a violation of the rules of procedure. Of course, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is most important in order to ensure a secret vote for all Members who wish to do so. The essential content of the Member's work and the exercise of each Member's mandate is the right and duty to vote. Each Member represents a part of the people, i.e. all those who have dedicated their voice to him, and this voice must have the opportunity and the right to surrender. Disabling the voice of interference with the right to exercise the mandate and denying the will of all those voters who voted for the MP in the elections. In the past, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly warned about this. May I also recall that the Constitutional Court, to the then Member of the Government, allowed the current President of the Government to vote at the meetings of the National Assembly, even though he was in prison. This right seemed so important to the Constitutional Court. It expressly stressed that the non-voting of Members is without prejudice to the right of enforcement in the elections of the mandate obtained and thus a violation of Article 43 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Every electorate in the national elections is also assured that in case of illness he can vote and give his vote. It is sad and much to say about this national assembly that it does not guarantee this right to its Members, to the same Members who have provided them with the possibility of public voting at a distance. I can only hope that all those who voted against you have given sufficient thought to the consequences of such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are an act which for all of us represents a constitution in small. It is not a coalition act and nor is it an opposition act, it is our common small constitution of our Slovenian National Assembly. He follows us at every step and according to his statutes, we are obliged to act. The Rules of Procedure also clearly define, among other things, the modalities of our meeting, the course of meetings and the voting itself. The National Assembly shall, as a rule, meet at regular meetings, except exceptionally, under certain conditions, also at extraordinary meetings. The additional news we introduced last April is a remote session. We were forced to adapt to the Parliamentary session because of the global epidemic that has cut into every segment of our lives. Members and Members of Parliament did not then decide on the basis of the position we belong to. The changes adopted are the result of the consensus of all of us, both coalitions and opposition, and in this way we should always act in this temple of democracy. We have also accepted the possibility of participating in meetings for Members who cannot attend meetings in person for epidemiological reasons. We have also laid the groundwork for remote voting, but only for public voting. This time, the proposal for amendments, which did not receive sufficient support from the Business Commission, is to allow for the consistent exercise of the rights and duties of Members, namely to attend meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies and to participate fully in the work and decision-making of the National Assembly. Consistency of enforcement, according to the proposer, means enabling a Member who, for epidemiological reasons, cannot personally participate and participate in the meetings of the National Assembly, including a secret ballot at a distance. A number of questions have been raised on this proposal, whether it is possible to participate outside the House of State in regular meetings, how many Members can participate outside the National Assembly and why a Member may participate outside the National Assembly, or only for exceptional co-audit or other health reasons. The answer to the question whether the right or duty of a Member to participate is a secret vote in the distance, on the right, in view of the other constitutionally guaranteed personal rights, to privacy, to health, is not as uniform as some try to present it. The purpose of the secret ballot is to further safeguard the free definition of a Member who is not bound by any instructions. The principle of secrecy protects the freedom to vote of a Member against interference by political parties, different interest groups or anyone else. Even if the possibility of a remote secret ballot was to be determined, it would be necessary to ensure clearly and unequivocally the non-influence of anyone, in the first place in the decision itself, whether the absent Member would express an interest in a remote vote. And secondly, extremely important, non-influence in the vote itself, in the voting way. In doing so, I stress that no one is denying the constitutionally guaranteed right of a Member to vote if he wants to. Members of the Desus Group on whether to establish a legal basis for secret remote voting did not take a uniform position. We all agree, however, that this is a complex subject that is by no means acceptable to hand. Regardless of the situation and our different views and views as a representative of the Desus Group, I appeal to all Members and Members to work with patience and, above all, with respect to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u223	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and coworkers, all of them have a nice greeting! In one sense, this point is irrelevant, for it was created for only one reason — an unconstructive hopeless or constructive lack of confidence or anything to save Private Karl Viktor Erjavac or everyone in the hunt for the 46th vote. And as someone wrote down on social networks, they can't bring in the dead sick, but they want to force the sick to vote. We warned in the SDS in the spring that there might be problems in the secret vote, and the same opposition mutated and did not want to hear these proposals. Now the same opposition says they didn't know at the time that the epidemic could last that long. When some point out that the Rules of Procedure are an important act, others take it into their own hands only when they urgently need it. If we want to complicate things, we're Slovenians probably among the world's champions. We did not support the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in the SDS Group of Members, because the amendments themselves would raise more questions than give answers. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, I quote, “the essential source of secret balloting is secrecy and freedom of decision” and “the proposed amendments deviate substantially from the fundamental way in which Parliament operates and the current business arrangements”. In order to be able to complicate the vote, as proposed by the opposition, it is also mentioned in the procedures written by the National Institute for Public Health, which proposes such and different measures and procedures. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that these procedures would make the right barn. As has been said on the committee, it is likely that we would also be at odds with how many people on a committee, how many commissions and other things they would probably never be united about, and less about them would be combined with a two-thirds majority. Also such matters as to have a 42-hour quarantined voice. Not to mention what the National Institute for Public Health has said — what should happen if an individual, i.e. a Member, was in the hospital, and how should it be done? It would probably take a secret vote not late in the night, but in two, three or even four days. The changes to the Rules of Procedure are usually opened with a shaking hand, not just in the grip of solving the current, current problem, which also fell away 15 minutes ago. We also have before us the opinion of the Research Centre of the National Assembly, which prepared a research task in early February, and see, 25 European countries do not know the secret vote outside Parliament. Only Greece, Estonia and, in some way, the European Parliament also knows this, not in such an appearance as the applicants wanted to present it, but they are voting in a so-called e-mail, where we know that personal data and everything else is of questionable origin, whether it is truly secret or not. In the SDS Group, we ask why we should open up a question that raises more new questions than answers. Secondly, we need to amend the Rules of Procedure with a shaking hand, regardless of whether the current opposition needs it in its jump to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u225	Thank you, President, for your word. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which would allow Members to vote outside the Assembly's seat at the time of the epidemic, would also continue the spirit of the amendments adopted last April. In the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which, unfortunately, did not receive sufficient support on the parent's working body this time, the epidemic forced us, as did the changes in last spring. But this time, with the difference that when it was necessary to shrink the species to allow for the smooth functioning of the National Assembly and to vote in favour of, say, all subsequent anti-Korona laws, we provided votes in the opposition. I'm talking about a public vote in the distance. You probably know, a well-respected coalition, that you didn't have enough votes to change the rules of procedure yourself. Today, when we wanted the same constructiveness from you when we wanted all Members who, for example, would remain in isolation because of the risk of contact with an infected person – we are not even talking only about sick Members, but also about healthy, capable Members – allowing them to exercise their constitutional right, so that we can also give them a secret vote in the distance, you have given us a basket without bad news. You have found a thousand and one reasons why it is impossible to do so, despite the fact that we already know in the national elections the secret vote of voters who cannot vote in the electorate and can choose from home, in hospitals, even in prisons. But in the National Assembly, you can't do that. You have found a thousand and one reason why the secret vote of Members, who would be sick or also healthy and self-insulated at the time of the epidemic, is unethical, despite the fact that we are already allowing all voters, including hospital patients, to give their vote. So where people elect you, you don't find it unethical that someone is voting in a hospital, but if the same constitutional right is to be exercised by a member of the National Assembly, you find this very ethically controversial. Instead of making a constructive approach to solving the important problem, which has unfortunately been highlighted by this epidemic, we have heard from the opposition and in the coalition that the only motive behind the introduction of secret ballots is the long-term vote on a constructive non-trust. No, dear colleagues from the coalition, secret voting is not just a vote on a constructive non-trust, but it is every secret vote when the National Assembly elects the President of the Court of Auditors and the Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and all the judges of the Constitutional Court. In short, the secret vote in the National Assembly is an important institute for which this coalition obviously has no hearing. And not only that, at this point you do not have a hearing just because you obviously do not have a direct personal interest in introducing such a vote. That's how democracy is pictured by you in the current coalition. When it is not about your interests, you do not want it, but even if it means that the constitutional right of a directly-loved Member of the National Assembly is denied.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-15-SDZ8-Izredna-61.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the record a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Working Body of the State Assembly. The draft decision was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will relieve the Vice-President of mags in the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Andrey Reich, and as vice president, he's called mag. Alenka Bratusek. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 61st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
