ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 90th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Iva Dimic from 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., Nik Prebil from 3 p.m. to the end of the meeting, Matjaž Han from 11.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. Franz Runk by 12 o'clock. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 90th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 16 December 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the agenda of the 90th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION LEGISLATION ORGANISATION AND EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 40 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues and all those who accompany us! When they were sick and in intensive care and when we counted the dead, the director of Slovenia said: “Covida is not.” Many followed him. The founder himself was completely powerless. When the principal fell in a school in Ljubljana and practically there was no more than chaos, the founder was completely powerless. Finally, he made the harshest move, but there was no other one left — he joined two schools. Now the kids are interfering here and there, driving here and there, but that's not the way it was going. When this and this lawsuit fell in the third school, and today, when schools face a number of lawsuits, the founders are on the side. It is time for the founder to take on his responsibility and care for schools, for the life and work of schools. It's not just school work, it's school life. It is the life of all those in school who work at school, and all of this applies to kindergartens. Responsibility is essential when we talk about the composition of the school world. We found a compromise, with all the comments, and now we are proposing a composition: three representatives of the founder, three representatives of the parents or one student in the secondary school and three representatives of the employees. This is a very beautiful arrangement, but of course it still does not achieve what is in other public institutions, where the founder has a majority, if not all of his representatives and it is not for less. This is a sign of responsibility, so please reconsider and also support this part of the law. And the next thing is to digitize the school. Schools are now being allocated together to a commercial provider who does not offer a complete offer of 6 million a year. Do you know that 6 million a year is one kindergarten, you can build a kindergarten for this or a small school? This money will save or remain for schools that will be able to improve their facilities and equipment. For them, data will flow on the ministry’s servers, they will be carried out by themselves, and all data will also be properly archived or destroyed when the law requires it. Only schools, competent persons, will be able to see data that only schools can see. In the data that the Ministry can see, this is the central record as it has seen before in the Ministry. Smart school is a matter of the future and it is also a matter of reducing the administration's costs to parents. Parents are now paying for children to have data on electronic controllers, which is unacceptable. It is even more unacceptable that data is stored on private servers, although I have no objection to private ones, but this time it is sensitive information and it is right to be in the highest protected area in the state area and also the responsibility of the state. The promotion of assistants, the educator, is the removal of one of the wrongs. The most outrageous injustice currently in the school system. There's still a few that need to be fixed. But do we care who works and how do we reward those with our most vulnerable, with the little ones? The law also brings values, European values. Human dignity, freedom, democracy, and thus equality in human rights are known. Slovenian culture is the one we have to take care of. I don't want to come to Japan and hear Aussenika there, but I want those who come to see us and enjoy our Slovenian culture, which we need to preserve both the movable and the immovable cultural heritage and this is a matter of education in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojca Škrinjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respected, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth at its 24th regular session 3. 12. 2021. It was delivered by a group of messengers and messengers with the first-signed Daniel the Blameer. The College of Presidents shall meet at its 115th regular session of 10. 9. 2021 adopted the decision to consider the proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system from a legislative and technical point of view. In this respect, the representative said in a relationship in the composition of the Councils of Educational and Educational Institutions that such arrangements from a legal system are not disputed, however, in the regulation of the composition of the Council, the specificities of an area or activity carried out by the public institution must be taken into account in the field legislation and the decision taken by the legislator must be genuinely justified. At the same time, the responsibility of the founder for the operation of the institution, the quality of the business, the financing, the maintenance of the property and the inspection of the public institution is essential. In this regard, the influence of the State or the founder, in addition to its regulatory role and supervisory function carried out by the school inspectorate, shall also be ensured through the powers to adopt the establishment act, the powers to deliver an opinion on the appointment of the director, and in accordance with the financial rules, the consent to the financial and personnel plan. With regard to the solutions relating to the establishment of the information system, however, she explained that most of the comments relating to the confusion and inadequacy of the proposals for amendments to the Committee had been corrected. However, it is still a matter of establishing a comprehensive and complex information system that would require an impact assessment in accordance with Article 35 of the General Regulation and an analysis of all potential risks. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the proposer's representative, a representative of the Ministry of Education, who said, inter alia, that the Government was in favour of the proposal. Regarding the proposed amendment to Article 46 of the Law, he explained that the reasons proposed for the amendment were, however, justified, but it was also necessary to draw particular attention to all the other levers that the founder had in the institution itself, and the influence of the founder was also reflected through ownership of the property. The change in the composition of the worlds also requires a transitional provision to determine the status of the world, the world in operation. The debate followed, in which some members and members of the Committee welcomed the upgrading of education and education objectives, the placement of values, education and teaching, the support of a more balanced composition of the Council, and the presentation of an information system for the management of school documentation, which will allow schools to travel with their data to the Ministry of Education and Sport. The information system is available to schools and the server is away from the prescribed storage and security on the servers of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. This leads to a new period of digitisation of school management and management, which will make it easier for directors and teachers to lose a lot of additional administrative work and to work with students and students, while at the same time it will mean that parents will no longer have to pay for their children to have data in some applications, such as an electronic desk. Others felt that it was a proposal for a law to attempt to politicise Slovenian education. They pointed out that the proposed change in the composition of the worlds would mean submission to the director in politics, thus opening the way to political shopping, in spite of partial ideology in school space. Professional teachership and other skills in the selection of candidates would become significantly less important than the one with which a designated political party likes and does not. With regard to changes in the collection and [[?]] the processing of personal data was clarified, [[sign for the end of the debate]] that they agree with the position of the information officer. Many of the people invited to the meeting also presented their opinions and views. Finally, the Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and the amendment of the opposition sent, and in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text is prepared [[sign for the end of the debate]] the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukič, you're a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u6	Yes, Madam President, I propose that a separate opinion be added to this report, which does not reflect the actual event at the meeting of the Committee, which can be drawn up in the opposition, since nowhere has it been mentioned that some Members, including myself, have not received a debate, even though we have been reported on it and all other violations of the Rules of Procedure, which have been one after the other, so that the meeting has in fact been completely irregular and today, in this report, it does not appear, so I propose that we give this separate opinion and that this is also published equally where it is published. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukič, as you are aware, our Rules of Procedure do not provide for a separate opinion, so that we proceed with the meeting. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, all to welcome. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is one of the key laws in the field of the school system. Therefore, in the SDS, we are pleased to see the prospect of supporting a law that has four important changes. The first amendment touches on the creation of a single state information system with the highest data protection standard. In short, we are introducing a system that has been in place by individual European countries for a long time in the direction of digitalisation. No longer will private individuals look into private personal information, but this will be hosted by the competent Ministry of Education. The second thing, in our view, is very important in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The introduction of the possibility of the promotion of assistant educators in the name of mentor and counselor. And we are deeply disappointed that some see even problems in this progress. From the point of view and from this town thanks both the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself personally as a father, thank all assistants and assistants of educators in Slovenian kindergartens who gladly and warmly give 200% of themselves each day to our children in kindergartens being happy and satisfied. A third change that is urgently needed if we are to ensure that the investor, including the man of the word, is in short to change the composition of the worlds of schools and kindergartens. It is not the right course to have an overly powerful influence by the politically highly disfigured SVIZ. Not that teachers have a strong influence is the right direction for the development of Slovenian education. Here we have teachers to teach in the first place, we have parents to work with, and above all we have congregations to set up and invest. And sadly, too many times have happened since the school or when the congregation adopted a plan to set up a school, which was suddenly no longer a welcome talker in that system. They may have said something, but parents, with the help of teachers, told them what would be invested, how to invest, and when to invest beyond what the mayor, municipal councilors, and the municipal administration would see how they would function rationally with financial resources each year. In short, we think that the system of three representatives of the founder, three representatives of the teachers and three representatives of the parents is the most optimal. No one prevails, everyone has to talk, and in the end everyone has to agree on an appropriate school. That the congregation invests in teaching and that parents are happy to enroll their children in school. We are extremely proud, however, that it is only in 2021 that this law introduces a new objective, with a focus on Slovenian culture and European values. If Slovenians and Slovenes are not proud of our culture and European values, who will be? Therefore, we are very pleased that Mr Boris Pahor, who wrote down, has also given his own support for this law: “The Pedagogical profession, which opposes the fact that the Education and Education Financing Act does not include an additional objective in the Education and Education Objectives Act, which highlights Slovenian culture and European values. The applicants also pointed out that the rejection of education and education on Slovenian culture and European values is the best evidence that the situation is the cause of the greatest socialisation process. [[sign for the end of the debate]] in which our children are entrusted to Slovenian education and supposed teaching professions. In short, this law introduces four important issues: digitisation, appropriate composition of schools, the award of assistant educators and Slovenian culture in the Slovenian school system. That is why we believe that such an important law will be supported as much as possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have one mistake to correct. Following a previous motion of procedure, I have released a representative of the government, so I will now give him the floor to explain the government's opinion. It will be explained by Damir Orhovec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u10	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members. To the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec, the Government therefore gave a written opinion, which you all also received. The proposal for a law has therefore already been examined at the competent committee of the National Assembly on 3. 12. It also received a positive opinion from the competent commission of the State Council. The proposed and adopted amendments addressed the shortcomings raised by the Government in its opinion, particularly with regard to the provisions governing the databases and the protection of personal data and transitional decisions of this law. The government supports the proposal for a law, but with regard to Article 3 of the bill, which introduces the new promotion of assistant educators as mentor and counselor, they would point out once again that this will, of course, result in certain imbalances within the pay system. In addition, the promotion of an assistant mentor to the title of mentor and counselor will also result in additional financial effects. The salary raise will result in higher prices for kindergarten programmes, which will also result in financial implications for the state budget and, of course, it will also be necessary to subsidise parental payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Now this law that we have before us today is a school case of parliamentaryism, how such important laws should not be adopted. The fact is that this law is an attempt to have a political impact on the functioning of schools. Now that such an important marriage has been introduced by the coalition, it is said as a parliamentary law and not by the government, it points to an agnorant to the pedagogical profession. More importantly, this law is adopted in a reduced procedure, and it also points to a certain attitude towards the school system. Now, two matters which I would like to point out in the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Marjan Šarca, are first of all an inadequate legal basis for the management of a number of personal data, both students, students and all employees, as the Information Commissioner has also warned, otherwise the Coalition Members have prepared amendments, but still the Law and Law Service warns that they have not properly regulated everything, nor has the Information Commissioner defined them. And at a time when there are so many personal data violations, it would be all the more important for us to be more careful about these matters. The second point, which everyone is actually pointing to, is the change in the composition of the world of educational institutions. Now, everyone's kind of talking in the coalition about how fair it's going to be now, 3, 3, 3, but somehow it's forgetting that first the coalition with the parliamentary law came from 5, 3, 3, is that the employees would take 2 seats and give to the founders, then we had amendments 3, 2, 2, and finally it came to 3, 3, 3. It is said that this shows the whole unreality of the adoption of that law. In fact, it was trading during the meeting itself. The 15-page amendment came in. And in fact, as important a matter as our youngest and the associated world of educational institutions is in fact not to be and is plagued by all common sense in order to have laws adopted in such a way. If, in so doing, I draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has stated on more than 10 pages that the law in some parts is in conflict with the Constitution, is unconstitutional to interfere with other matters, in fact, all alarms should be on fire and all these laws should in fact be rejected. At the meeting, many were also invited, who were united and who agreed in fact with what we are saying in the LMŠ and in fact in the democratic opposition, that acceptance in such a way is in conflict with all common sense and can be said to be illegal. SWIZ, the Association of Directors of Primary and Music Education, the Association of Directors of kindergartens, the community of kindergartens, the Faculty of Philosophy, the Institute of Education, says all those who represent the profession in this area were united. The way in which the law is adopted is controversial, with the fact that it has also been made substantively clear why this law should not be adopted. When we warned in the opposition and even put forward a public statement of opinions, the coalition refused to do so, the real coalition did not even want to hear all these professions working in education covering this area in order to explain why the amendment of this law is controversial. It is said that the opposition, or coalition, overtaken the voting machine again to make public representation of opinions, it is said that experts covering this area could come to the National Assembly and tell their opinion whether the law is good or bad, saying that some fundamental democratic freedom of speech has been taken away from them. And for this reason, we will strongly oppose this law in the letter of Marjan Šarc. Not to forget, I still have a letter here that the president of the Education Committee could not answer. Why did the College itself, which apparently does not recognise it, request or allow the education committee to operate after 10 a.m. The College rejected this and the President actually held the meeting after 10 a.m. When we were in the democratic opposition in the letter of Marjan Šarc, we were reminded of this, so unfortunately we had no choice but to obstruct the meeting. In the end, the President made herself a victim, and the victims of this process of this law are our youngest and all who work in educational institutions, not least more than 27,000 signatories, the schoolchildren who strongly oppose this law. In short, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we will vote unitedly against this law, and we hope that this law will fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Law on Financing and Organising Education and Education as proposed by the Coalition is a mockery and a disgrace to the entire school system. In addition to the Police, this government coalition obviously wants to fully subordinate education or, in other words, it wants to strike an attack on the independent Slovenian school system, on our future, on our children. It is quite horrifying that we are witnessing almost daily the constant attempts of the government of Janez Janša to subordinate all social sub-systems in our country. The coalition has proposed a change in the composition of worlds, institutions, kindergartens and schools, where five representatives and parents and employees would have three each, according to a new congregation. According to the local staff, they take the number of places in sacred institutions and give them to political February. So from deciding on the most crucial issues of the operation of kindergartens and schools, teachers are excluded, which is absolutely unacceptable. All of this with the aim of setting political leaders up by political February. He is the principal and must be the principal of teaching, that is, the expert, not the person who will act on the instructions of the policy. Whether the books of John the Baptizer will be in the classrooms, and we rightly ask ourselves that question. The most fascinating thing about this is that this proposal has grown on the grassroots of coalition MPs and not even the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. However, at the meeting of the competent parliamentary committee, the Secretary of State, Orehvec, of course, on behalf of the Government, even hesitated to propose such a proposal, although we would expect a little more professionalism and responsibility from the representatives of the ministry. Simona Kustec has already received instructions from the Cabinet of President of the Government, as we are accustomed to. At the very least, what we would expect is for such sensitive changes to one of the most important social pillars, such as education, to prepare and propose a profession, not a handful of coalition members who obviously feel competent enough to decide on the future of our educational system. You're not competent enough. The Coalition Members have neither explained nor presented any analysis or valid and justified reasons why the composition of the worlds should change. The statements of the applicants that the saints of schools and kindergartens face difficulties in the selection and appointment of principals are flat and groundless, as they also point out in the SWIZ union. The legislative and legal service also points out in its opinion that the applicants did not even explain or present any factual and legal aspects that would indicate the need to change the composition of the boards of institutions, nor was there a comprehensive analysis to indicate the dimension of this issue. That the proposal was extremely problematic, it also showed the response of practically the entire school sector. The Education and Education Union has submitted 24 000 224 signatures to the National Assembly in the field of education and education against changing the composition of educational institutions. SWIZ and the teaching profession warn that this is an attempt to politicise education and education. The proposed solutions are also strongly opposed by the directors of the Slovenian kindergartens and the Community of kindergartens, who say that they cannot in any way allow the recruitment to be political and that the profession should still prevail. Experts from education and education with the first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabro (quote): “We do not understand exactly what, except for the desire to regulate one of the last areas which has escaped policy interventions into professional work, leads the proposalers to change the composition of the worlds of kindergartens and schools”, they wrote, among other things. In addition, the draft law also contains extremely problematic provisions relating to the protection of our children's personal data. Both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Information Commissioner have warned that the provisions are unclear, inconsistent, likely also unconstitutional and that they should be re-examined. Respected and respected! In the democratic opposition, we have drawn up two amendments following the calls of the professions and trade unions to preserve the current composition of the worlds of institutions. The second amendment, however, refers to the union's call for the inclusion of an appropriate legal basis for the introduction of a senior councillor's professional title, as agreed by the Slovak Government-SVIZ strike agreement in 2018. As has already been said, the government of Janez Janša is destroying and destroying everything good in our country. That is why I call on citizens and citizens to go to the elections so that the Jancism will never come to power again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u15	Lock it up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u16	Social Democrats have a good program. We advocate public goods, public education [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u17	Comrade Koprivc, you've already exceeded 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u18	for all citizens and citizens alike and for all. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u19	Dear colleagues, please stick to the time frame; I'll leave it there for up to 30 seconds, and then I'll start to warn you. The next word is Luka Mesec, who will present the position of the Levica Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to remind people who advertise as conservatives and change this law of theirs of a beautiful conservative motto that says, "If anything works, don't fix it." If it's not broken, don't fix it. But because, of course, we are not dealing with conservatives, but with people who want to spoil the social sub-systems that operate in this country, of course, schools have also gone. Schools in Slovenia work very well, and this is not some claim that I would now draw from the air, but thus show virtually all relevant international research. For example, on the survey of PISA 2018, in which 79 countries participated, Slovenian 15-year-olds in all three trials, reading, mathematical and natural literacy achieved above average results compared to the OECD average. In natural literacy, only Finnish and Estonians were better off than our students, and only Estonia, the Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland had better results in mathematical literacy. In short, we belong everywhere to the global and European summit. The reason our students have such good results is the well - functioning schools. Schools work well because they're well-managed. Schools are well-managed because we left politics at their doors because they have the key power in schools and when they decide who will be in the leadership, who will be the principal, the teachers, so these schools work well. And even if you put us in the international spectrum, you'll see a similar pattern. In Finland, which is the epithet of a good education that enjoys the undisputed world reputation of schools being practically the best in the world, teachers take the lead. They are practically entrusted with how schools are managed. On the other end of this extremism is Macedonia, where virtually every government exchange is replaced by directors. And now ask yourselves exactly where we'd like to be put. Closer to Finland or closer to Macedonia? And if good schools work, why fix it? I don't think it's hard to find the answer. Your initial proposal was that the current system, where there are five teachers, three representatives of the local community and three representatives of parents in the school world, would reverse the relationship so that five representatives would have a local community, three teachers and three parents, which means that the local community, the mayor and his men, would only have to draw one more type of teachers or parents, and would have a majority of whom would be able to appoint a director. That was your original proposal. And it's very clear that you want to bring politics to school, so you're changing this law, and because of something else, you want to bring politics to school. And what kind of policy we've heard in the session, that sad session we've been following the last time. One of the main proponents of this law said, but please, what kind of policy are we going to bring to school, because we're talking about local level, there's no politics, there's only people who want good. Not when someone decides that there is a policy and good, they say, politics is against the good, and this person will be recruiting after Slovenian schools, sorry, I think we are all rightly concerned about what the results of our students will be in ten years' time. I hope it doesn't look like that mental state. So today this point should not be addressed in any way. You have adopted the law with complicated arguments that there are problems in appointing directors, which everyone has rejected in turn. You presented it with a complicated argument that the municipality must have a greater influence in schools because it is the responsibility of the founder of the good business of these schools. Look, schools are good at business, and they're strictly regulated. You have brought this law to a point where it will be discussed in plenary session through a committee that you have enforced and should not take place after ten o'clock. You didn't even have permission for this committee. On the contrary, the chairman of the committee, Iva Dimic, asked the College of the National Assembly before the College of the President of the National Assembly to extend the committee after ten and this was rejected. The president of the National Assembly even wrote to the chairman of the committee himself a few minutes before ten that he had to finish the committee at ten and he didn't. And by breaking the rules, you will bring politics through the gates of our schools. Rejective and very significant for the end of your term of office. Of course, we will oppose this and table an amendment, of course we will vote in favour of the amendment that repeals this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! If we want the Slovenian school system to create young people who will develop their ideas to solve people's problems, then we need to change the approach of the school system. We should abandon a system in which it is important for a good assessment to remember as much as possible the number of unused data. People are gifted for different things, so it is important that the school system is looking for knowledge in subjects that are not ignorant of subjects that they do not like. We have already written this in New Slovenia in our election trail 2018. The school system must educate and educate, raise and raise young people to be responsible and good citizens. Today's Law on the organisation and financing of education and education brings about changes that have proved necessary in recent years to correct and amend sectoral laws. in the field of education, in addition to the objectives of curiosity, creativity, imagination and intuition, the development of an independent opinion adds a new objective, education and education with emphasis on Slovenian culture and European values. This is an important goal for our Slovenian people, to preserve our culture and tradition, which, due to the rapid way of life and the displacement, is lost and disappearing. With the first-signed Boris Pahor, 27 prominent Slovenian individuals wanted to invite a broad professional and general civil debate about what kind of education we actually have in Slovenia and what we should really have. Their appeal is also addressed to a pedagogical profession that opposes this goal and apparently does not understand its mission in a democratic and legal state. As such, she is not teaching and even less professional. In its public work, it is clearly driven by the very motives that the democratically elected Members of the National Assembly themselves manifest. A law that would not require an additional objective between the objective of education and education, which highlights Slovenian culture and European values, according to the signatories, would be unconstitutional, inter alia, in the letter. There are other good solutions in marriage. Modernising and digitizing education. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will set up a single information system in which primary and secondary schools will move to uniformly standardised, computerised management of these records and documents, with a view to unifying, maintaining records and documents. At the same time, the single information system will provide more appropriate support to the Ministry for monitoring educational work and policy planning, establishing a single information system will allow data connectivity and standardising processes, relieve administrative work in schools and reduce the risk of errors and so on. So the school system with data analysis is easier to monitor, adapt and improve. The revised composition of the Council of kindergartens and schools certainly brings greater balance in decision-making and school management. The balanced composition of the World Schools brings more dialogue and desire to find common solutions. This has also been outstandingly recorded in relation to the Assets of the Parents’ Councils, where they want good cooperation. Surely, however, one of the most important changes to this law is not only for a few thousand assistants, teachers, but also for all parents, changes that allow the assistant educator to advance to the title of mentor and counselor. This enables assistant trainers to have a more equal position and recognises an important role in the upbringing and care of the youngest. True, for many years they waited for changes, protested, wrote calls and pointed out the great differences in almost the same work, which is taking care of our youngest. Today we are correcting this and it is right to admit to them that they are doing an extremely important job: raising our children, future students, students, students and responsible citizens. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. When we received our country and constitution in 1990, the following quote was found during an election campaign in one of the DESUS coalition’s election programmes: “With the discovery of democracy, there is no predetermined authority. In principle, the city of power is empty so that it does not belong to anyone in advance or forever. Whoever is democratically elected to this place is legitimate, but always only a temporary substitute for the people in power.” After 30 years, when we should be proud of the achievements of our beautiful country, you are the heirs of the spring parties to those words, which we considered to be self-indulgent, more than apparently forgotten. Moreover, with your actions, you are beating them daily and slowly imposing a new system in Slovenia, a new system of values and thus changing society according to the SDS measure. Today's agenda therefore opens not only a debate on the amendments to the law on education and education, the relationship between stakeholders in kindergartens and schools and educational programmes, but also opens up a much broader issue – the question of what country we want to be in the future. That our society is changing against the will of many of us, it is also confirmed daily here in the National Assembly and is a fact that has definitely been confirmed in the adoption of this law. The coalition doesn't care about arguments, it only uses power arguments. That's all she's got left when she's strong in authority. They would do anything to ensure that you could only succeed at the foundations of state systems before the elections. The attempt to politicise the police, the failure of public broadcasters, the rejection of STA funding and could still be listed. Now, however, by increasing the number of representatives of the founder, i.e. the state, in the holy kindergartens and schools, you have also embarked on the politicisation of the school space. Of course, you also force a change in educational content. One of the key objectives of school reform in building our country 25 years ago was to limit the impact of policy on the functioning and organisation of kindergartens and schools. Until your arrival this goal was achieved without major shocks, Slovenian school space remained quality and accessible to all under the same conditions. What do we have right now? You voted to finance private institutions with public money, you took away the opportunity to give consent to open new private schools and kindergartens, you allowed nepotism in higher education, and now you want to pave the way for the administrative regulation of the school premises. Your wish is so strong that, during the consideration of the novel on the national working body, the president of the committee prevented opposition Members from having the strongest and only weapons – the right to debate. Parliament is, by theory, a field of controlled conflict. And when Members of Parliament, in particular the opposition, are deprived of the opportunity to debate, the legitimacy of this law, which has been adopted in this way, is called into question. In the proposal, which is also extremely problematic and contrary to the profession, the word of the profession is also not supported by any arguments or scientific findings that testify to the merits of the changes, nor has the general public or serious parliamentary debate been held. Despite the fact that, in the framework and unilaterally changing an important part of the education system in which agreement on non-politicisation was reached 25 years ago, we are talking in a broader and longer debate. If any other government had accepted such a proposal as it is before us today, we might even be able to talk about the meaning and justification of such proposals. Because it is this government that, in all areas and in all sub-systems, imposes its own personnel and disputed solutions and destroys everything, including what works well, that we have absolutely no confidence. Finally, let me touch on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which essentially adheres to what has already been said. The decision to change the composition of the Councils should be made on the basis of a careful assessment of the actual situation and possible consequences [[sign for the end of the debate]] on the operation of the law. In doing so, the applicant must take into account that the establishment of public institutions is envisaged in those areas where, as a rule, an appropriate degree of professional autonomy and independence is ensured. In the SAB Group we are therefore sorry, but in all the current problems you are also dealing with areas where there is no problem at all. Instead of being interested in the management of schools and kindergartens, it is called the most qualified, not ours or yours. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We'll object to the motion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. A lovely greeting to all present! In the coalition's parliamentary groups, we decided to submit a proposal for a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the legislative process because we wanted to address the following objectives. These are: education for European cultural tradition, balanced and more operational components of the institution or kindergarten or school, the possibility of the promotion of assistant educators as mentor and advisor, and the creation of a single state information system for the management of documentation. We expected a somewhat broader debate on all these objectives, but the debate on the working body focused on certain content in the arguments that the novel under consideration was politicising school space. The largest debate was held on the subject of the composition of school councils and the appointment of principals, and we first stress the importance of the competences of school councils. The school councils shall, inter alia, adopt school or kindergarten work plans and reports on their implementation, as well as annual reports on the self-evaluation of the school or kindergarten. They shall also decide on the introduction of superstandard and other programmes, address reports on educational or educational issues, decide on complaints concerning the status of apprentices, pupils, university students and adults, as a secondary body, unless otherwise specified by law. They shall also decide on complaints concerning the rights, obligations and responsibilities of workers in the labour relationship, and shall deal with matters submitted by the educational, teaching, teaching, teaching or teaching council, school inspection, representative labour unions, the parental council, the student community, apprentices, students or students. Why are we listing all this? Because, at some point on the working body, the debate focused on only one competence of the school board, and this was the appointment of the principals. True, it's the school councils who call the principals, but it's not their only jurisdiction. The school councils are the administrative and supervisory body. In order to balance the interests of all three groups represented in the school world and to improve their operationalisation, we have adopted a solution in the parental committee that reduces and gives to all three groups, i.e. representatives of the founders, workers' representatives and parents' representatives, the same number of cities, each three. From the very beginning, we have been favored in our parliamentary group. The next solution brought about by the novel is the advancement of professional workers, that is, assistant educators. If the amendment we are considering today is adopted, we will allow for the promotion of mentoring and counsellor to assistant educators who are doing a similar job as educators. In doing so, we agree with those who say that the position of assistant educator is undervalued and that the possibility of the proposed promotion would also allow professional development of the staff in kindergartens. With regard to the establishment of a single national information system for the management of school documentation, we know that school documentation is currently kept in paper and electronic format. In Slovenia, private electronic services are currently provided. Personal data included in education and education are on private servers and schools provide funds to maintain the system and are not the owners of the solution at all. By establishing a single national information system for the management of school documentation, we provide education policy makers with: [[sign for the end of the debate]] faster and faster access to data to improve solutions, ensure quality in education and facilitate monitoring and planning of educational work. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u28	Dear President, all present. Slovenia is a small and rich country. We are a miracle among European countries. We have managed to preserve our Slovenian culture, language and heritage through the centuries. Instead of being proud of their culture and national heritage, some who come from the types of people that Slovenia was not an intimate choice try to destroy at every step. Deep roots were introduced into our school system, which was slowly and intelligently transformed into some strange ideological crease. Years ago, we could have been proud of our school system, which raised children who were respected in the world. Now, for several years now, the literacy of the Slovenian nation has been falling, and national consciousness is almost gone. We believe that you are a patriot and that you are in favour of Slovenian. All the elements that encourage this national consciousness in children are weighed down from school. And we're putting the composition of the institution's world at the forefront. Who are we making fools out of here? It is not important that the law in question complements the values that some options have tried to silence in the school system over the years. It does not matter to them that titles and promotions will finally be arranged for the assistant educators. It is important how many members will make up the board of institutions. I have already said at the interpretation that I will not support the new proposal in any way if the world of the institution is politically set up. We have received information that the Council of the Institute is to be composed of 5 representatives of the founder, 3 representatives of the parents and 3 representatives of the teachers, but on our initiative the Government has changed the proposal and is now the proposed composition of the Board of the Institution 3 representatives of the founder, 3 representatives of the parents and 3 representatives of the teachers. Otherwise, we believe that schools with more employees will be disadvantaged here, as the range of teachers in schools ranges from 40 to 200 employees. And let me tell you the number of children between 200 and 800 children per school. However, this is certainly a better proposal than was originally set out in the proposal. In Slovenia there are over 400 kindergartens, primary schools, over 200 secondary schools. And believe me, in every school, they have a different experience with the world of the institution. We hear stories about how those who are representatives of schools are intimidated by their parents' representatives to vote in a way that benefits their school staff. They don't give a damn about the kids. In a similar way, they choose the director. They pick the one that's easiest to spin around. On the other hand, we hear stories of how the founder’s representatives lobby either on parents’ representatives or on teachers’ representatives so that they can set up their own staff. In the background, however, there is always a benefit to a particular political option, which you know for yourself, you just need to look at the congregation’s membership cards. In such cases, children or the welfare of the Slovenian people are not at the forefront. I'm sure where children's benefits are more important, they don't care what the composition of the institution is. They focus on giving children a good environment where they will learn the most, which they can eventually be responsible. However, I believe that with the proposed change, many people began to have a chair of pleasure. So what are we going to put ahead of ourselves? Children or the benefits of certain political options?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State with the expertise! Colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon! According to all expectations and justifications, the bill's subject novelties have stirred up the professional as well as the political public. The idea of changing the composition of the Council of Education Institutions is not new and is indirectly linked to the current process of appointing principals, but it has so far prevailed in the sense that such important changes, which substantially create school space, cannot be achieved with the law of the Member State without public debate and, in particular, with the clear political connotation of the ruling coalition. [[Incomprehensible]] A good 24 000 signatures collected by staff in education and education should be sufficient to signal that something is seriously wrong with the proposed amendments. In fact, this is also due to the adoption so far of a bill which could be considered a catastrophic failure to comply with all possible rules of the legislative procedure, both by the coalition and by the opposition. The reduction in the number of employees and the increase in the number of representatives of the founder, while unfortunately there is no other understanding than the efforts to increase the impact of local and national policies on the functioning of kindergartens and schools. [[Incomprehensible]] Even though the amendment was adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, of course, without the opposition, by which this composition would appear to be balanced according to formula 3:3:3, now as we know is the ratio 3:5:3, says 3 founder, 5 employees, 3 parents. The basic proposal was 3:5:3, which is said to have actually had a greater impact on teachers and employees in education and education, because we still think that education and education in kindergartens and at school is a basic problem or a basic tendency and the task of all those involved in education. This does not in any way change the facts of the underlying intention of the proposed changes, which the ruling coalition has enjoyed. In a good two-year period, in many areas of social participation, everything that is possible has been politicised. It seems that the ruling appetites were not able to resist in the field of education, which, given their alternative mode of operation, is not even surprising. In fact, this also shows very clearly the change that would add education and education to the objectives of education and education, with an emphasis on Slovenian culture and European values. Far from being opposed to it, there's nothing wrong with it. However, if the current objectives were not already clearly marked, the development of awareness of national ownership and national identity and of the behaviour of Slovenia's history and its culture, and integration into European integration processes, would be clearly noted. So it's a very similar thing or almost the same thing is already written in these sections. There is probably no need to lose more words about denying the already agreed professional agreement with the implementation of the professional title, since we know that they have agreed with the unions and employees, it is said, as well as employers, that they have an agreement that essentially denies this story, which is now being proposed. We will, of course, oppose the proposal of the Law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We hope that the awareness of what the proposed changes mean for the future of education and education in our country and what it means to change and to play with the concept of the composition of the worlds of kindergartens and schools, which eventually came to a halt in thirds, will achieve a sufficient parliamentary majority that will overcome enough courage to simply stop such ideas. But if not, who's helping us?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SD, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm going to start applying to the list of discussers. Please sign up. She's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I listened attentively to all the points of view, and I would like to give some answers to resolve my doubts and concerns. First of all, the government's position, you've predicted an imbalance due to the advancement of assistants. Let me say, while I greatly appreciate the dedicated and courageous minister and I am sorry to see some problems in this - they certainly are, but some imbalances are already. And as for the raising of wages, we also talked in the State Council, and the representatives of the congregations did not see a major problem in this, since it is not really a big cost to the congregation. As for other professions, which should also be regulated in the education system and which this proposal addresses now, somehow, everyone who is aware of this still has a lot of work to do in education. I am aware of this, but this is the first step, and I think the people who work with our youngest should be treated with dignity. It would also be possible to open all social dialogue, that is, pay to raise also in some other way, through a different classification. This, we know, will take years and years, because when this chapter opens, all professions will open up, not only in education, but in the whole public sector. I also heard a proposal about a senior councilman. So the higher saint is one of the titles that would be even more than those that already exist. In education there is the name mentor, counselor and saint. A senior saint would be more than that. This has already been discussed, I believe they will continue to run, and I believe that the Government and the social partners will find the right solution. Now, what we refer to in this law is just what actually sticks out the most, and the biggest injustice is happening, whether it's assistants or assistants to educators and educators. But they can only advance into mentors and counselors because they have secondary education. Nevertheless, the legislation defines them as professional workers, as do others. I'm still going to the point on the composition of the worlds. Both LMŠ and SD parties and Levica claimed that it was a school politicisation. As my esteemed colleague Tomaž Lisec said in his position, and he said, the congregation is good for putting up a school to maintain it, to pay for over-standard activities, to pay for an additional first-class teacher, for all of this is good, but otherwise it must not make any decisions. And now, look, you're saying it's professional, because the world is made up because now there are five teachers in the world – it's not true! No, there aren't five teachers in the world, there are five employees. I was a member of three worlds of schools in Ljubljana alone, and I tell you that they were in worlds besides teachers – and this also allows – also a janitor, cook and accountant. Now, if you think this ensures greater professionalism, no doubt the role of a janitor in school is also very important, as it also grows in some way, and this profession will also need to be discussed a little bit in the future, about the life of the school. [[…]] But this isn't about pedagogical expertise, so we can understand each other. In fact, Mr Strukelj said in a debate in the State Council, and here on the Committee he said, of course, that other institutions, which have a different composition of the Council or an administrative committee, have their own professional councils. In fact, UKC has most government representatives, and then there are very few employees - because I can serve you with numbers - but it has an expert council. At school, the school world represented both. No, it's not true. The school has a teaching choir. It's like an academic convention at the university. This one's a professional organ. This one's a professional organ. And the expert bodies are also beautifully listed in the law itself. These are professional assets, these are the ones that lead the education policy. And if, I can say, it is not true that this proposal will be excluded from the profession. They continue to have a teaching assembly or a training assembly in kindergarten, they have a key word, they decide what the educational policy of the school will be if you can hear the word educational policy of the school. Now, SVIZ says he's dialed up, so SD says that SVIZ has raised 24 grand and a few more signatures against the composition of 5+3+3 as it was originally. That's right, they picked it up. But think about it, in 2008 and 2007, when the change was already adopted to 3+3+3, it was unfortunately only until the end of the government's mandate, and then Mr Luksic, then the minister, rushed back to 5+3+3 for the benefit of the employees, then collected 40,000 signatures against 3+3+3. Today, it's up to 5+3+3, in favor of the congregation, 25,000 signatures or 24,000 signatures or something. See, the matter has almost halved, indicating that the teachers have learned that this is a dispute around the back of the shadow as far as their autonomy is concerned. Their autonomy is inviolable. They're a pedagogical law out there and there's no one here, there's nothing politics can do about it. She couldn't, and I hope she can never, ever do it. Moreover, you say that this is just politicization and that it was impossible to talk. It's not true again. All this debate on the committee during the opposition, the coalition, among the invited, led to the conversion from the initial proposal of five representatives of the founder, three parents and three employees to a balanced composition of three representatives of the municipality or state in secondary schools, three representatives of parents or two parents and one student in secondary school and three representatives of employees. And if you say, the left side says if something works, let's not change it, schools are good. Now I don't know how much this is going to look like, look, it's an anonymous curve. If you look at it, these are the achievements of elementary schools in the ninth grade in mathematics. And schools are on average very good and on average we achieve things well, but look here, the lowest, so the highest achievement in the worst school does not achieve the worst achievement in the best school. Schools are extremely different in us, extremely different. They are one with wonderful achievements and the other are very, very poor. Of course, I do not say that it is only because of the world and the principals, for sure the social environment is here too. But that's why and that's why primary school is the one that has to reduce the differences between what lives determine, and that's also the social environment, including the degree of poverty or the degree of wealth you want. Now, SAB says we're imposing a new system of values. Look, Mrs. Masha Kociper and I are both city saints. And that's where what happened to us all was awkward, but otherwise it wasn't power. Two schools in Ljubljana had to unite because one could not do business. And then I had a similar argument that the Founder must have the power to make order when there is actually chaos in school. And there was chaos in one of these schools. Mrs Maša Kociper has supported me in this and the mayor and the magnetographers prove this. Today, it says that the composition of the world is as we propose and even more compromise is proposed. This does not seem right to me, and in the system of values it is wrong to speak in this way. The new system of values says, look, first-signed Mr Boris Pahor and a number of distinguished academics supported this part of the law that speaks of European values and Slovenian culture. Once again, let me tell you what European values are: human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law of human rights. Is there something wrong with that? And Slovenian culture. See, it is necessary to preserve the Slovenian culture of cultural heritage, a real estate cultural heritage, we must not lose monuments, a protected building, as well as a moving cultural heritage as much as our entire culture. This needs to be protected. They'll appreciate that in school, too. These children will grow up to be citizens who will not only give their income to some very fast-changing goods, but will buy books as well as paintings and other artistic products that may survive their vacation during art and recreation and therefore need to be brought up for it. Slovenian culture defines us. This does not mean that we do not respect other cultures as I said before, but when I go abroad I want to see the pulse of the culture there and I want that when foreigners come to us, we proudly show them our culture and that they coexist with culture. In Slovenia, of course, it is necessary to keep it somewhere else. In Rwanda, in America? It seems that sometimes in Argentina they value Slovenian language more than in Slovenia if I look at all the abuses of the Slovenian language that are taking place in the public domain. So I think that's a good thing. Now digitization. Mr Koprivc said that the Law-Legal Service said that this was probably an unconstitutional decision. Look, law enforcement doesn't talk most likely. Law enforcement says so and so, so the law is expressed not most likely. It's a bar debate. The legislative and legal service is making a lot of comments and all of these comments have been taken into account so that we have corrected the original proposal with the amendment and I think the matter is now in order. Indeed, the Legislative and Legal Service also said that an impact and risk assessment should be made. Of course it has to be done, but that's what we do in programming. That's what they'll do when this thing is programmed. Now it is necessary to have a legal basis for these pilot schools to operate at all. If you think digitisation is a bad thing, it's bad when it's a possible data abuse. I'm not saying that these private people who now pick up 6 million a year from school – I think it's 6 million, because the government representative can fix me, maybe I have outdated data now against 7 million – to keep them weak. Absolutely not. The fact is that data cannot be sensitive data cannot be on private servers, not mine. They used to be a bookstore, and if you want other documents that were in paper at school in in inconvenient closets and only a teacher could see it. Today, however, these data are on servers somewhere in private, your assessments can see techniques, computer techniques, but your assessment will not say they will be misused, but look, it is much more likely to be misused if it is not regulated by the state. And here you'll find the information nice in the government servers. What will happen to digitization, the mother book and the birth certificate? Only once will data be entered from the student and then these data will be kept at the school base. And from the director's office, you'll also have room for feedback. You know, it's not enough to just say, you got four, you have to explain why, or three. Or is there something else missing? And that's all the space here in this bookstore. There will be a daily work, an annual work plan, which will not only be some writing in one way or another, but will also, of course, be structured so that the objectives in it and the measures are in place, so that they know what something is doing. And all the authorities will be represented in this annual work plan, and the most beautiful thing is that there will be an integrated calendar, a school calendar in this annual work plan where school will not have to copy any important dates, nothing will be forgotten which is very important, both from the graduation calendar and all that. The certificates will be automated, so the annual work plan will become a report by rounding up. You know how much less work teachers and principals will have. Let them deal with children, with students, with students, not with paper. So, we'll save time, we'll use it wisely, we'll save it, we'll save schools on costs that they'll focus on important things, but not on paying for some applications, and, of course, the data will be safe with maximum security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. We are therefore under Article 2 and the amendment of the Lefties, LMŠ, SD, SAB and the Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State with his colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! Now, this debate is probably going to be very interesting today, even with everything that's actually been going on with this law. The paradox of the whole story today is that the entire school sector is actually opposed to such a proposal and to this intervention that has taken place with this bill. And then what do the proponents do? Force and force and push the matter forward, which is completely incomprehensible to me. Well, if I'm still trying to figure out why they're doing this here, then I don't understand all the others who support it. And I'll explain why I think so. Indeed, in the opposition, we have proposed a public presentation of the opinions. No, you voted us out here, you don't want a public statement of opinions, and the whole professional public disagrees, but you don't want it. Then we proposed, okay, you don't want a public presentation of opinions, and let's at least give the procedure a normal procedure, I mean let's pass the law on a normal procedure. No, you don't want that either. There must be an emergency procedure. Then it happens that committee, which is a shame to lose words anyway, because what Mrs Dimic of the Christian Democrats has allowed is a disaster from disaster, it is not worth telling me at all that we have come to this point, but okay. Then every five minutes you bring a new bill to the committee. Every five minutes there's a new bill. By the fact that, of course, the law had already been introduced in September, that we understood each other, and that, even as soon as it was introduced into the LMŠ, we responded that day that it was an uphill political setting of directors, and that this was also the only objective. And we've already invited the proponents to leave the expertise to the professionals, but okay. Every five minutes a new proposal came forward to the committee and started trading like a market, what now will go through. In the LMŠ, we strongly oppose this way of action because we are talking about the backbone of development, the well-respected proponents, the backbone of the development of this country, we are talking about our future and we are talking about the school space, but it is obvious to the applicants, however, that this is in general what they have done in adopting this law. And what's even more paradoxical is that our spineless minister ultimately burns this whole thing down, the first thing she doesn't do is hide herself when something has to be done, and then the Secretary of State comes here, says that the government supports such a bill anyway, because the SDS is the proposer, but the problems will be. There is no telling who will finance this difference to wages and to those new things that the educator or whoever gets, also talks about how disproportionates have arisen and that this is not the wisest thing to do, because only one part is regulated, but they support it, and we are indeed in a banana state. And we talk about school space, we talk about the functioning of public primary education in Slovenia, which is compulsory for all children. I just can't understand it. It has renounced dialogue with absolutely every profession, and it is true that it has renounced the search for expertly thought-out solutions and, of course, this is also reflected in this procedure, which I described earlier. Every five minutes a new proposal came because there were no professional solutions, which is that the field of education and education is being used for sharp client political interests and that is wrong and we oppose this in the LMŠ. Perhaps just an example of why we immediately opposed that first proposal 533 in the LMŠ. In Maribor recently, we changed the decree three, four months ago because it turned out that the true founder of the congregation could not provide sufficient representatives of the founder to the holy schools. You know why? Because of the fact that KVIAZ after four times repeated the call to political parties to propose something appropriate enough and that is simply not the case, the decree had to be changed in Maribor so that the holy schools could work even if all three representatives of the founder were not appointed. And then the proponent says, "No, no, three are too small, five must be." And I believe that if this same problem, which arose in Maribor, was a problem in any other congregation or perhaps not, but, however, in Maribor, this problem occurred, and the directors also warn, by the way, I have spoken to almost all the Maribor directors, and I have also written to them as soon as this expert came to the table in the notes, and they have said that some very big problems are also with this, the MIZH does not propose at the right time that some school or school councils are still waiting for a year for the founder of MIZH to propose their candidates and then this huge proposal has arrived "no, no, instead of three give them five", because that is true, I will hold on to this opinion now. In short, when a person sees it all, how it happened, and when he takes into his hands the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, he finds that, of course, everything is wrong with this law and that it would make sense for the opposition to be heard, that the matter is done at least according to the normal procedure, that it would make sense to listen to the profession, what it has to say about it and, of course, take this into account. But no, there must be force in every way, in every way, through this proposal. Why? To pursue narrow party political interests, dot. The SPS is also critical of the main argument, or the essential reason, which is cited by the proponents in support of the amended, proposed amendment. The Coalition states that the main reason for the proposed change is the responsibility of the founder for the operation of the institution, the quality of the business, the financing, the maintenance and security of the property and the reputation of the public institution, and therefore must have an adequate number of representatives in the world. Now the activity of education and education is, of course, subject to a high degree of regulation and supervision. That's what we all know, everyone who's ever done anything small in school. Public education institutions also implement programmes adopted by the Council of Experts. The amount of funding provided to public schools by the State and the local community shall also be determined in accordance with the standards and standards adopted by the Minister. And then, of course, there's the school inspection. That is why, of course, it is not true what the proposer initially said that it is time for the founders to take on their role and care for the school. Don't hold it. Therefore, once again this law is only and exclusively a narrow party political interest and absolutely nothing else. Therefore, we have also tabled a very short amendment to Article 2 of the opposition, Article 2, which means that the composition of the schools in the world remains the way they are, because there is no need to change it because things work in principle. Of course, given that we have as many schools as we have, in some better, in some worse cases, there are also difficulties in appointing principals, there is no question at all, but that does not mean that the matter has to be turned over and changed without any professional arguments. There are also many arguments that, in fact, the draft law, which, of course, was prepared solely with a political purpose, aimed at political interference with school space, without adequate analysis and the veracity of the arguments which are, of course, the basis for some such solutions. Therefore, the profession made it clear and loud that the matter did not stand. Therefore, it would make sense to put the matter back where it was or not to change it at all. That is why we have also tabled this amendment to this Article 2 as I have said. For it seems to us that the most important thing is to restore trust in teaching, because by taking 2 representatives from the world, it looks like no one trusts teachers anymore. And let me remind you that in Covid's time, those who saved education were also far away, teachers. And you know what we should do here in the National Assembly? We should bow to all teachers, not punish them in a way that reduces their number in the school world, and that is how they are taken to say this importance in schools. Indeed, confidence in teachers is, in fact, essential, a prerequisite for quality results in schools and, of course, for the quality results of the entire public education system. And in the LMŠ we think it is wrong that things are governed by this law in the way they are regulated, so of course we will support this article that we have proposed, which is that things are being deleted, in fact this article is being deleted and things are being left as they are, because in practice they have proved to be effective and something that works effectively, you do not change it, at least if you want to do so well with education and the functioning of some schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u35	Thank you very much. She's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u36	Thank you. I just want to warn you that it's not true that there are only teachers in the world of schools. They're all, they can, they're all employees and they are. They're teachers, they're janitors, they're cooks, they're accountants, they're accountants, they're accountants, they're employees, they're employees in there, and it's not about distrust for teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, we are sitting at a meeting which should not be, because it is completely irregular, in view of the developments on a committee which was completely irregular, where I have not received the floor as a representative of the people, as a Member, although I have been reported to the floor, as well as my colleague Luka Mesec and the Chairman has voluntarily passed on to the vote, which has never happened before and has never happened in this Assembly, and which is an eccentric violation of the Rules of Procedure, that all other matters concerning how we should have sat after 10 a.m., although we should not, nor should I mention. Clearly, in Levica, of course, as in the opposition, we are absolutely proposing the deletion of the second article and insisting that the achievement of the regulations of the worlds of public kindergartens and schools be maintained and that this prevents politicisation and why politicisation, I will explain in a little more detail right now. Of course, the politicisation of schools does not happen in a vacuum, but it tries to subordinate itself, to universally subordinate the school system to one party and one ideology, and this government has been proving since the first moment that came back into power. For example, remember the involvement of this government, personally in the enrollment procedures of the Minister of Economy, Restoration, that the university does not educate enough truck drivers, for example. Let us recall that public funding for private schools and a couple of state schools has been reached near the SDS party, such as the University of Jambrek, despite the accreditation procedures, although it does not meet the conditions for accreditation, which in the PKP package has been given this possibility of continuation, that is, funding. Then, the financing of the Grm High School through the parliamentary decree and at the wishes of the dean, who, by the way, is also the minister of this government. So the purpose of establishing a private military academy, for example. The granting of concessions to various political friends and ideological allies, not to mention the unwarranted prioritisation of areas of research, among which, look at it, there is an area of theology. Isn't that the ideological and cultural struggle of the SDS party? Somebody tell me it's not. Let's get back to history. How a SDS client works every time it comes to power. In 2006, the SDS party achieved that the number of employees in the school world had decreased from 5 to 3 and, of course, increased the impact of policy and reduced the impact of the staff and teaching profession. Then, in 2009, the change was lifted, as it will be, be free of worry when the end of this gloomyness will come and the relationship will return and return to its previous state and look at the fraction, and let us see the "disgustingness" of today's proposer, colleague Mojce Škrnjar, what she stated in 2006. The fundamental argument referred to in 2006 by SDS, in particular by Mojca Škrinjar, was that all stakeholders – employees, founders, parents – should have the same number of votes in the school world because they all have the same important role and legitimate interest in school management. As the proponents wrote at the time with Mojca Škrnjar at the head, I state, "it is necessary to ensure a balance between the influences of individual stakeholders in the operational management of the institution". A special place in the operation at that time was held at a rhetorical level by parents who were supposed to play a strong role in the school's life, according to the then proposer. At that time, of course, parents were used for an easy purpose: to increase the influence of SDS and its ideology in schools. Today this same political party and the same parliamentary group and the same person, says colleague Mojca Škrinjar, after 15 years they speak differently. They tried a little differently, but now we've come to this balance, but it wasn't the first instinct. And so with this introduction, when they proposed the first version of this law, they denied their previous arguments, which is proof that those were not actually arguments, but simply manipulation and a backdrop for politicisation. So the question for Mojca the Boxer is: what happened to the conviction that it was necessary to ensure equal representation and the strong role of parents, as she claimed at the time. Now she wanted to play a strong role in politics. Since this has failed after all these turbulent events, she has now agreed to this option – which, of course, always means politicisation and subjugation of the school system. Now, what are the proponents doing? They use deception, manipulation, and I can tell lies. We have heard that holy schools and kindergartens are to face difficulties in choosing and appointing principals. And then he finds one case, he blows it up, he puts it on a big canvas right now, and that's it. So, based on one case, is that a rule now or what? By saying that the education and education union, which closely monitors the procedures for appointing directors, says that these procedures take place in an extremely high proportion without any complications, the vast majority of directors and directors are elected unanimously or by a convincing majority of the votes of the members and members of the board of institutions. The change in the concept of the composition of the board of institutions is therefore justified on the basis of a non-existent problem or on the basis of baseless claims, there is a claim of difficulties in the selection and appointment of directors, which is not really supported by anything other than one case cited by the applicant today. So it is not clear how many schools where these problems are serious - we expect this information on such serious matters. So how many schools are there where these problems are serious? Which particular problems do schools, parents, or employees have? Isn't the mayor the one who can't set up his principal, but that's the problem? That is exactly what the Law-Legal Service also pointed out. We do know, however, that in schools it has shown that 80% of them are supported by the existing system of school composition. I can also tell you in the number, 24 thousand 224 student signatures that are against this change. But that obviously doesn't count. We were not allowed to have a public presentation of our opinions, nor were we allowed to discuss Members after the new. The SDS party is in such a hurry to change this composition of world schools. Of course, there are no other fat lies that suggestors fear. The first was the one that I have now shown and proved, and the second, the proponents have therefore simply invented in their explanations that the school council has an administrative and supervisory role. The Council of Schools, respected and respected, has no administrative supervisory role, and this has been repeated today as a parrot in its position by the SMC Member, who, of course, belongs to what they sell to it in the coalition. True, the world is the governing body. Once again, he has no administrative supervisory role. And he doesn't have a supervisory function. In Article 48 of the ZOFVI, which determines the competence of the school council, we do not find such a function. Article 136 of the ZOFVI refers to the supervision of the legality of the work of the principal and the school, the school inspectorate and Article 79 of the ZOFVI stipulate that financial supervision is carried out by the Court of Auditors. In spite of these facts, therefore, the proponents falsely persuade us to do the opposite, and from their fantasies, they conclude that the current composition of the world is a problem because the founders have all the responsibility for the work of the director and cannot effectively control his work. Imagine some twisted and vile manipulation. Based on complete lies, respected and respected. Therefore, if I quote the explanation and now quote: “With this composition, the system of education of uniforms in the Slovenian legal system is as far as control of public institutions is concerned.” End of story. Can you imagine? Such lies come before us, in front of the public, of course, avoiding public confrontation and blackmailing this change, subordinated to the Ministry of Education, which is simply obvious, except that it said that this would also have an impact on the public funding system, because you also hit it, which is practical, because as if we didn't have a uniform system, we're going to have a little bit of a setup here and a little bit there. No, you can afford two fat lies here that are two fundamental arguments for us to accept this terrible law. And no matter how Luke the Moon said in the introduction today that we have fascinating achievements on an international scale, our students, our students are at the top of the world. There's only Finns in front of us, and maybe Estonians, and in one case Swiss Poles. We are at the top of the world, respected and respected. Why? Because we have a high school system. Why do we have a high school system? Because so far she has had a professional word in the school world and the politics has remained at the door. What do you want with these? On behalf of what? – a crusade on the school system? Of course, we would have an impact on the principals, and through the administrators, I don't even think about what else. We know what your European values are. I'm sure you're not talking about the rule of law and human rights. You're talking about something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u39	Thank you very much. She's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukich, you're ignorant. No private military academy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u41	No offense, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u42	I'm sorry. You've been ignorant, but, you don't know, it's not a private military academy. It's a public academy, but it's not an object at all. In addition, thank you so much for giving me such a strong role as that of myself in 2007, the proposer was the government at the time, and I am not the proposer now, but only for myself, but in fact the coalition has put this law into the system. We talked about this, we came to a compromise, and the parents, which you often mentioned today, were invited to the board here in public, where all those invited who applied on time were invited. So it was not that there was exclusion of the public and here the parents on the committee stated that they liked proposal 3:3:3 completely. And you say that Mrs. SMC read some nonsense again. But it's not true, she read the 48th section of the ZOFVI Act, which speaks of the powers of the world. And in fact, the complaint is also part of essentially control over the operations of the school, because it regulates otherwise, the appeal body is the world of the school. And if you say we have a top school system, tell me why the best student in the worst school has achieved less than the worst student in the best school. This is not a top school system; it is still good enough, but it needs to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Look, Mrs Škrnjar - I will just refer to you - I agree that the Slovenian school system is very good, I would hope to say that it is also superior, but it certainly can be improved. But, you know, improve the school system this way, improve the school system by increasing the influence of the ruling policy, because that's absurd, what you're saying! Above all, I wanted to ask the representatives of the ministry - I know you can't answer me today - how you feel when you're sitting here. How do you feel when all the key school laws are not made by you, who should be a defender of the profession, but by Janš's parliamentary group. I mean, I really don't get it. You instilled private school funding in this way, so to speak, as a law of parliament. You are now trying, and you will probably with the majority you have, unfortunately, to increase the impact of politics, some of the local or national influences on the appointment of directors, and the ministry is just watching. And I believe there are a lot of experts out there who actually think otherwise. But your hands are literally tied. And this is a key problem that we have also pointed out in the interpretation that we do not actually have a school secretary. And you prove this because legislation, and this important legislation, not some lame corrections, is important legislation not by the Ministry, but the SDS Group, together with your assistants or what they would say, is what the collaborators say, because they stood before the elections for something else, and then they entered to stay in positions, to the government that they committed themselves not to participate in. And it's getting very, very dangerous and unacceptable. You're in charge of taking over all social sub-systems. You went to the police, to the media, and now, just before the end of your term – obviously these last five months are crucial – even education, and public education. Unacceptable, unacceptable! It's an unworthy democratic system. And in any way, as I have already said, through parliamentary law, through urgent procedure, through any public debate, against the support of trade unions, professions, including parents, Mrs Škrynjar; however, there is always one that supports it when you order it, and so you must say. That's unacceptable! You even bypassed the right of the opposition on the board to speak. So where does this all go?Oh, my God! And yes, yes, this government majority will take this matter today, five months before the elections, before the plebiscite, which will decide on democracy or Janshism. Sad and unacceptable, indeed. And here again we can point to SMC and Desus, which allow it. The only thing I can say about this is that spring is getting closer to April, and I believe and I hope that if not for the day of independence and unity, we will celebrate the day of rebellion against the invader and the first of May in freedom. At that time, however, the government, which will succeed this Janhism, will have to withdraw key measures at the first government meeting and, inter alia, restore independence to public education, the Police and all other subsystems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u46	Mr President, I ask you, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to raise this debate to a slightly higher level and to try to discuss the predecessors, even when it comes to eccentric lies, a little bit. Let me say that, as a result of the Education Committee meeting where this law was dealt with, there was a consultation at which the Legislative and Legal Service said that there were no reservations about this law being considered at the meeting of the National Assembly, so it is not true that this law is controversial and it is not true that President Iva Dimic violated the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to remind the Member that she is not deceiving. As for the spring, let me say that 30 years ago, spring parties celebrated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u47	Comrade Montenegro, this is no longer a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u49	Look, we're not going to talk about this right now, because it's kind of stupid to talk about whether this is the point or not. The agenda is confirmed and we are considering Article 2 or the amendment of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, SAB and the Non-aligned Members. There is nothing to add to this. As far as raising the culture of debate is concerned, look at this. I absolutely agree with you. Let me do something about this. Comrade Koprivc, he has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. First of all, my colleague Montenegro has now misused this procedure and allow me [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u51	But I can't let you do it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u52	No, no, I'm not asking you to explain to your colleague Montenegro, as President, that I have not, in particular, talked about the fact that the Law and Law Service has only challenged the meeting. However, I think there are many legitimate reasons why we should talk about this too. I was talking about the fact that the Law-Legal Service itself disputed that there were no real reasons to accept.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u53	Comrade Koprivec, I have already explained to my colleague Chernigo, so if you don't agree otherwise, let me use the replicas and other institutes that are for this, apply for a word. This is already an open debate. See for another 4 hours of 55 minutes. For the proposer, colleague Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u54	Thank you very much. You were forcing private school funding. Excuse me, Mr Koprivc, we have implemented the Constitutional Court's decision. You said some parents were here but some friends there supported this marriage. It is not true that a representative of the Union of Parents sat at the meeting of the Committee and supported this option 333. And one more thing, please don't insult me. I'm not a collaborator, and my client isn't a collaborator. They're co-occupiers. By the way, the day of rebellion against the invader is April 27th, and May 1st is a labor holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Replica, Comrade Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Boxer, I can't put a level on you, but if you've listened to me, I didn't say you're a collaborator, but it's not important. But there's someone else in the National Assembly. But I wanted to say something else. You simply keep referring to the amendment of the ZOFI regarding the financing of private education to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's decision made very clear what it required, namely that the compulsory part be financed at 100% for the extended programme and that there was no speech and a proposal prepared by then by Minister Jernej Pikalo to resolve it, but unfortunately it did not go over because the right hand did not support it and this part of the then coalition, which today turned out to actually belong to the radical right. Thank you very much. What you have now done with this proposal is just another candy to John Janša's friends and, as we know, because of the public school system at least then you couldn't have had a full impact you decided it would be more meaningful to finance in private. You're doing the same thing in high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, once again welcome. Now, and even in the List of Marjan Šarc, we have been saying all along that the Minister, Dr Simon Kustec, does not know or can not even matter what the cause is, but the fact is working against Slovenian education, against sport and in fact against everything its ministry should cover. Why do we feel that way and see? We had children with special needs, which we warned them about. They were returned by the Constitutional Court in the school bench. The extension of accreditations, to which all experts have also been alerted and immersed in one of the PKPs, has been revoked by the Constitutional Court. There has recently been an invitation to tender for private concessions and once again all experts point out that the method of acceptance has not been correct. Last but not least, the Rector's Conference said that in a particular case the tender for concession was largely not as the government claimed, since we have enough places for several programmes that are subject to concessions in public universities. Thus, the government says that these concessions are granted because there is a lack of personnel, and we see that we have enough space in public universities. What I want to say with this subject is that the profession was once again excluded. Although the government has not formally proposed this proposal, the parliamentary group, which it is, is a real coalition, which is even worse because it is such an important topic that it should be prepared by the government, but even though the government has not proposed it, is silently supporting this change. Now, in our view, this is an attempt at political influence on the functioning of schools, which we have already warned more than clearly. Now, in the sense that this law is unsettled, it is best to say that in the original proposal, as my colleague Skrinjar said, we had proposal 5, 3, 3, which is that we give employees to 3 and founders to 5. Now, if this was some consensus that would drink water with the support of the profession, then we wouldn't have on the 10th page any amendments prepared for the committee and that what was changing and trading was what someone proposed. So now we don't have enough votes for 5, 3, 3, then we're going to give 3, 2, 2. After some have warned that this is also wrong and that there will obviously not be enough voices, and well, let's give 3, 3, 3 to make everyone happy. That is not the way to take such a serious matter. With the Law-Legislative Service on more than 10 pages telling us what was wrong with this law and that amendments were coming during the meeting alone, as I have already said, I think, on about 15 pages. And now all invited, except with the exception of the parent representative who we know, is said in his own interest to have as much influence as possible or at least as many influences as others, objected to this law, both procedurally and substantively, from the Association of Principals of Primary Education and Music Schools, then the Association of Directors of kindergartens, the community of kindergartens, the Faculty of Philosophy, the teaching institute, also the last trade union, says everyone who professionally covers this area, objected. Now that we've said good, let's make a public presentation of the opinions, so that they can come even wider, it's from parents, employees, not least maybe students, students, it's said that everyone who has any connection with education, to come to the public presentation of opinions, that the coalition rejected this proposal, said that they would sit in this room and then listen to what anyone thinks, and that in any way they would then be composed of these, this world of schools, but not. Now it has not yet been explained why it is so necessary that, following a reduced procedure, this law must be adopted, we do not know. Nor did the ministry say why it is so urgent that all the problems that this minister has caused to solve some real problems are not known. In short, we don't even know what will be adopted in the end, in what way. As a result, we have also proposed in the LMŠ and the opposition amendments that both the world, the change in the composition of the world and the inadequate legal basis for the management of a number of personal data, which is in one of the articles, in fact that you, these two articles, are being deleted, because also in this regard, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Information Officer empowered to do so have stated what is actually wrong with this Article. And even today we do not know this proposal that is before us today whether it is legal to drink water or not. Now one of the things the proposalr has to say is that he must have more rights. The fact is, municipalities finance primary schools, but that doesn't mean they have to decide everything. We also know how the congregations appoint their representatives to the world of schools, through municipal councils, and most often the municipal administration sends a proposal to all the council groups and then who they have, who is a member of a council group, they propose. So that's because I'm part of it, and I see many times the names that come to KVIAZ, those are names, I don't want to be offensive, but about education that doesn't know anything, but some people don't see college or even know how the school system works. This is also the case for primary schools with special needs, we call it, say, the municipal council appoints candidates and then they actually come in, as I say, but they vote like either the mayor or some secular group says, and it's said, we put scissors and canvas in the hands of people who will decide about our youngest when they have no idea what they're actually doing there. Now, to compare this with some other institutions is irrelevant, because we know that the principal, in quotations, is not only the school director, but also the teacher’s leader, and this is some difference between other institutions, and therefore the employees must have a greater say about who will run these schools. I will not say that the current system is ideal, that it cannot be improved, that everything is as it must be, but the fact is that it works, and that if something is already wrong, yes, let us make a public presentation of the opinions, make a broad debate and improve what it is to have the ministry with all the employees, with all the experts it has at the Ministry, not least the school director, for the primary schools, to prepare a way together with the school for officials and all the relevant stakeholders, it is said that the system that will be better than it is today, but not that we are changing something that in practice could mean any further political shopping possible because of, I don't know, one principal who is eccess in Slovenia and who is not working clearly by law than it should or by some, is the right instructions. But there are always people in a system who do everything against everything and they are also violating some normal standards, and they are ultimately damaging to our youngest, but there must be other measures to prevent it, not now “ad hoc” to change these things in fact. And as I have already said, in the LMŠ we will strongly oppose this law, we will vote against it, and I hope that enough votes will be made or found to break this law, because, not least, as I have already said, the adoption of the way is distorted by logic, and I will say again, the president of the Education Committee still has not answered the question after so long, not why it violated the decision of the College, because it is more than obvious, but why it has deliberately violated it if it has made a request or two earlier to the College itself or can the committee sit after ten hours, and the College has rejected it. So I don't see a reasonable explanation for why I'd make a request that they refuse, and then they're violating it. It would have been better if I had not even made this request, but only the committee would have carried out, which was obviously not necessary. So, professionally, all relevant stakeholders oppose this law, and I hope that if the law is passed, all these consequences will not be borne by our youngest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! I would also take a brief look at this Article 1 which adds to the care of the curiosity of the research spirit, imagination and intuition, and the development of an independent opinion. This is very well written down, but I see no reason why this is necessary, because our school today, especially the public school, this very clear application and on all three children alone, I see that this is very well done, and that in this much preferable, I think I must look for each other what it is to hide the purpose and I fear that the framework of this proposal of yours must somehow concern us, because in the light of this repeatedly expressed by the proposer, that in today's schools, the communist and leftist minds apply, one has to imagine what you have in mind now that you want to bring it in or fix it. And I'm afraid the problem is in possible interpretations, in the exclusion of this political doctrine that you're following, and in some follow-up to a dictatorship that you would probably like to incorporate into the thinking of growing people, young people, children. And here I think that it is precisely because of this landing that we need to have the right to have politics set out the observations and movements of education and education, that we must, that we must activate all the alarms to prevent this, because it would be abuse. When it comes to Article 2 and then the increase in the number of members of the founder from 3 to 5 and the reduction in the number of employees from 5 to 3, it is, of course, the establishment of its directors. And this can't be a balance, just as the proposer wants to mask it. This is a simple attempt, a monstrous attempt, politicisation, this time of education, what we have always said should be left behind at least when it comes to basic schooling. Here I would very much agree with colleague Natasa Sukič, who announced that it would be good to introduce one separate opinion due to the irregularity of the Committee on Education. And, of course, the report of this committee's meeting is irregular if you want. The fact that the President is not here today is probably not a coincidence. The president played her part, and now it's better to back off or at least wash her hands. The Vice-President, with all due respect, Vice-President of the Education Committee, has subject this report today. And that's why I don't object to him, but I feel like there's a lot more to be added than has been said. And that's why I think my colleague Natasha Sukič's proposal is very meaningful and necessary. We are dealing here with an attempt to reduce this guaranteed level of professional autonomy and independence in sacred schools, and this is absolutely wrong, we should not attach this and we will not impose it. Last but not least, this is about a significant change to the law regime so far. It's not a small measure, it's quite a twist. And as already stressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, not all actual aspects are fully presented in this proposal and not all legal aspects justifying this need for such a rigid change are not, of course, given this assessment of the consequences of the change. When it comes only to regulating promotions for assistant educators, of course it is to welcome that he can progress to the title of mentor and counselor. But it seems to me that this is just the decoration of this marriage proposal, which we are talking about today, and that this is just one bait to present to the public some kind of benevolentness that is far from presentable. Because if you want, I can also remind you that we are not in the previous mandate, but in the previous government, that we have also achieved an increase in wages for exactly these profiles because there was a imbalance because we are too well aware of what these ladies and these gentlemen are doing for our children and that they have indeed been underpaid in this respect. But I am afraid that with this proposal on the composition of the world, a change in the composition of the board of institutions, that they want to subjugate the teaching profession, that they want to impose guidance on models of opinion. And this danger seems too great to me because it is an attempt to establish a system that is the first step towards a modern-day Inquisition. And I'm really afraid it's gonna lead to that. And this is where the understanding of political dialogue ends, although, according to the proposalers' intentions, they were not even meant to establish it. From here this quick procedure and everything else, so dialogue is not considered. As soon as I saw that he was the first-signed leader of the parliamentary group, it was perfectly clear that they would hit on the current structure of the worlds and on what has been in existence for 25 years, but not only that there is 25 years, it is in itself a guarantee that something is so terribly good, but when it comes to Slovenian education, to Slovenian public education, we must say that it has really been classified by quality among the world's leaders and now it would be changing the very condition that contributes significantly to this quality, but now that condition would change quickly. So I'm very suspicious here or I'm aware that something smells. In developed democracies, this type of political activity is not dealt with and is only referred to as the most qualified to run schools. But if you are determining that the most qualified are chosen by those who do not have qualifications to determine qualifications, then it is clear that the purpose of this law is something else, because the professions take the majority of votes, the majority of the decision-making, and it is clear that they will choose by some means and practically fundamentally intervene in the quality of the independence of teachers and education to which we have sworn so far and for which we obviously have to fight from now on in every way possible to return if it is voted today. The fact that the public presentation of the opinion was not allowed speaks only to myself, but if you want me to see here also in the signature of 25 thousand employees in education and education I see one public presentation of the professional opinion if you want, so not only the opinion, this is still a step higher, and if it is not clear that something is very wrong with this bill, then we are left with only to count and find out who will win today, but this victory will not be if it will not be final and final, because the matter is too serious to let it be so challenged in history. Not only SVIZ, the Education and Education Union, but also a highly professional institution, such as the only department of pedagogy of the Maribor Faculty of Philosophy, is opposed to the proposed amendment of the law, its head of a regular professor, Dr. Edward Protner, wrote that the representatives of employees in the board of institutions are married to defending professional decisions and that is absolutely true, and if this denial is virtually left to the enormous influence of politics on the functioning and schools and is unnecessary, of course absolutely harmful. This proposal is dangerous if I go over the conclusion, because it leads to the guidance of children to internalise the adoption of a dictatorial principle and also leads to the intimidation of teachers and administrators. We all know too well together that we know where this dog is praying today. The abuse of this invitation should not blind the decision makers to the argument of digitisation, I do not believe that it is in the direction of real modernisation, because they care little about modern bureaucracy in school, but if you put up a magnifying glass for this purpose of digitisation, I think it is about establishing a database of accessible children's heads, which you can very operationally send messages or letters similar to those we all receive today at our own expense and that you are indoctrinating them in this way and trying to distract them from the thinking of your parents, your families, your environment, not least if they are not united enough with this ideology that you would want to have a permanent and life or life-long rule. Thus, if the proposal is confirmed by vote, we are ripe for a constitutional judgement on this issue, because of the consequences that will conceal the valuable systems of young people, they will endanger the teaching autonomy and will constitute one terrible leap or fall if you want, in retrospect and therefore in the client of the SAB, we will not support this, because we are strongly and definitively resisting all these movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has a Mojca Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, I believe you don't believe everything you've said. That kind of thing, you were talking about some communist way of talking about dictatorship, abuse and so on. Your fear, I don't believe it's as big as your words. I believe you can understand the matter, and now I will try once more to explain everything to you. Of course, I am also discussing other things that have been the subject of debate so far. Look, you're talking about politics coming to school. I will now read you a part of the Basic School Act and there is a very similar diction in the Schools Act and the Vocational and Vocational Education Act and the Kindergarten Act. This is part of the annual work plan. As he says, "the annual work plan sets out the content, scope and distribution of the educational and other part, in accordance with the subject and the curriculum and the content, the extent and distribution of the interest and other activities carried out by the school. The work of the school advisory service and other services, the work of the school library, the activities with which the school is involved in the environment, the scope of the activities by which the school provides for the healthy development of pupils, the form of cooperation with parents, the professional training of teachers and other workers, cooperation with higher education institutions which educate teachers, research institutes, training centres or advisory centres, in cooperation with external staff and other tasks necessary for the implementation of the primary school programme.” Similarly, I said, it is at other levels. Look, you can't go in and politicize the work of the school, because it says it's determined by the annual work plan, the content, according to the subject and the curriculum. The subject and the curriculum shall be adopted by the Council of Experts, the Council of State. He's preparing plans for the Institute of Education. So, as far as teacher education is concerned, it must, by law, be a high second rate of Bologna. Look, no one can change the subject, add some of the strange things you're afraid of, I don't know if they're communist or they're clericalistic, because I don't know or change the curriculum. It can't change them because the curriculum is set and you can't treat and politicize a single subject and I don't know what else this is and it's a professional matter. What, though, is one where the founder can be involved? See, the activities with which the school is involved in the environment are determined. This is an intergenerational dialogue. Here the congregation is an extremely important factor. The scope of activities to ensure the healthy development of pupils. Healthy student development, we often talk about Slovenian food, about locally produced food. Here, the congregation has an extremely great opportunity to help with this coordination. Forms of cooperation with parents shall be determined. Here, too, the congregation can do a great deal to help with cooperation with its parents by providing additional financial resources when it comes to certain events and so on. Then, cooperation with higher education institutions that educate teachers and other institutions. You've seen so much trouble testing the youngest in primary schools. Of course, the good mayors had some dialogue, talked to the heads or directors of health homes, who could also help with the introduction of tests in schools. It is not, it is not in school, but it is not only now, so the curriculum and subject are also these activities involving the school in the environment, as well as research institutes. So if you let the founder out of this, then you'll literally amputate the school. That is why the founder is extremely important. And then you say, yes, they come as representatives, representatives, and there are some people who don't know anything about the operation of the school, because only those in the world get to know the work of the school. I've already said that between five, currently among the five employees in the world of the school, that there are teachers here, but there can be other profiles, they can be accountants, they can be janitors, cleaners, cooks, anyone who has the right to work in school or kindergarten. Look. And now, if you're going to tell me that they are, for example, that the janitor is an English expert, it's possible that if he ever lived in England, he wouldn't be able to teach it himself, because you have to know how to do it, and you have to know the learning processes. So look, a janitor is a valuable person in school who can do a lot to help with some educational function of the school, that's true. And that's why it can, right, it's in the world, there's no problem, but you can't say it's a pedagogical thing, that it's a professional thing. Now the professional thing is going on in professional assets. You have a teaching choir, and then this teaching choir is divided into professional assets, professional assets for mathematics, foreign languages, Slovenian and so on. And they make professional decisions. No one else can accept them. And the director coordinates them, but he cannot interfere with the content of the professional asset of the Slovenian principal, if he is a professor of sports education, cannot interfere with the very area of Slovenian, because this can only be done by professional assets. That's what you need to know. And that's why your fears are completely unjustifiable. You say that people who sit, then representatives of the founders who sit in the school world, that they have no idea about the functioning of the school system. I think that's what Mr. Aljaž Kovacich said. That's not true. Maybe they don't know about it, maybe they're purely, I don't know, ordinary agronomy engineers or ordinary economists or regular shopkeepers, but they know something about how they went through the school system and how successful life was, how successful their education was, how they were, when they were looking for a job, how the school taught them, how they equipped them for life. You know for yourself whether you went to a good school or not, because if you went to a good school, it helped you with your career. They also know that they are parents, including representatives, congregation representatives, or representatives of the State, often or most often parents. So maybe they don't know how the school system works completely, but I'll bet that most of you standing here don't know very well that I know a little bit more than you do, but you judge me about it, but you don't know how the school system works. And if you're going to say you know, I'm going to ask you a question and you won't know how to say it. I can also tell you how much you'd get a grade, and I won't. So you can't talk about it and underestimate the representatives. And Mr Aljaž Kovacič said very well earlier, yes, the parties agree and give their representatives, of course and nicely there that electoral committee says that there is a balanced composition in the parties. And they represent their candidates. Most of the time, these people who come to the sacred parties, and I know that because I've been alone many times and I'm still a member of the world's customers, of the world's schools, I know they're not in any party at all, but you know. But those who are, some who are delegated from the congregations, are, and some are not. So you can't say that either, because you don't know what relationships are like. You're talking to me. Besides, if you have three parents and three employees, I won't tell the teachers, it's a total of six, that's the majority. And if you have three representatives of the founders who will make completely unreasonable proposals, they will certainly be stopped by these six, but there is no such thing. I tell you, if you have ever been to the Holy Schools, the Holy Schools are trying to make the school work well, especially the founders, because the founder is especially if it is a congregation, if it is not a country, because the establishment in primary schools is a municipality and in secondary schools is a state. The founders would say exactly where the municipalities know that if the school or kindergarten works poorly, the mayor will not be given the next term. See how they try to help in all the functioning of the school or kindergarten. So let's say the legal service helps. I know because I'm talking about how many complaints are being filed against schools right now, because those of you today who are representatives of us who have received one 5,000 emails to our addresses are being sued at schools, and what do you think schools are doing the same thing? [[Incomprehensible]] They're not working. They are often assisted by legal services from the congregations. But then they're okay, and then they're okay? In public procurement, however, these are complex procedures and a lot of costs are needed again by a lawyer. Many times the congregation decides and helps to prepare and to open public contracts, and it is also very important here how this is actually going. Then we had a conversation about this, and let's give you something else about the composition of the world. [[…]] Let's see, UKC Ljubljana. UKC Ljubljana, the Council of UKC – which has 11 members – Ljubljana consists of representatives of 6 members of founders, 3 members of workers, 1 member of the Municipality of Ljubljana and 1 member of insurers. So here you have 8 members who are not employed against 3 members. Do you see? Does this mean that the UKC is not working professionally now or how? Again Branimir Strukelj will say yes, yes, they have a professional world, but in school this professional world is actually the same as the World of Schools this is ignorant, very ignorant. Why? Because the School Council does not decide on pedagogical issues, but also decides on complaints from workers and decides on working relationships. The teaching issues and the professional issues are decided only by the teaching assembly and only by the professional assets and by the director. Well, he's coordinating. The director, as I said before, cannot invent and dictate something to the teacher of Slovenian or English, because the teacher is a sacred thing, he is autonomous and he works fine. But if he's doing something wrong, then there's a school inspection, and he gets an expert from the Institute of Education, and then he decides on his expertise. The principal also observes the work of the teacher, but as I say when something goes very wrong, the school inspection. Now let's look at UKC Maribor, the composition of UKC Maribor. 6 members of the founders, 1 member of the Health Insurance Institute, 1 member of the Maribor City Municipality and 3 members of employees in the UKC again 8 and 3. Let's see, Ljubljana City Library. The Council shall have 5 members appointed by the founder of 5 of experts in the field of work, finance and legal matters. There is now nothing professional in the Council of the City Library of Ljubljana. What, are we just reading the paper or what? Who decides on the expertise, who orders the books, and what types of books? So that there won't be any drama here again, that they'll be in there, just like that, and different books. SNG Drama, Slovenian National Theatre Drama [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I see some tension is growing here. We stick to the content and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u64	I'm talking about the composition of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u65	No, drama, UKC Maribor and UKC Ljubljana are not the subject of today's agreement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u66	But they are public institutions and saints of public institutions, and school is a public institution and kindergarten is also a public institution. If you'll excuse me, I'll just give you one more case, and then I'll stop. I'll take your warning. So Drama has four representatives of the founder appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister, among experts in the field of work of the institution, finance and legal affairs, and one representative of the staff of the institution elected by the staff of the institution. That's it. That's it. Now there's something else about tutors and assistant educators. Look, I understand the problem that there are still professions that would require repair, and I'm sorry that this hasn't been fixed yet. And, of course, it can't be all at once, and I believe that it will be a competent ministry to work on it and that they will do something about it. As for the payment, you said or in the debate it was said, yes, and now the parents will pay for it. See, there is something you need to know – how the price of a kindergarten program is designed. It consists of the sum of labour costs, i.e. the cost of salaries of employees working in kindergarten in this programme, then added to the material costs, maintenance such as electricity, water payment, and didactic resources and other material resources required for the operation of the director, the secretariat and food payment. This cost of the program is not the work of a union confidant, nor is it an investment, because it is the responsibility of the congregation to do so. And when you get the price of the program, let's say that this is 500 euros for the youngest child per month, and then part of it is financed by the municipality through a subsidy. However, these subsidies shall be determined in a way that allows the decision to be issued and this Decision shall take into account the income of the parents. Less than their income, a larger subsidy is paid by the municipality. According to my data, I will be corrected if I make a big mistake, but I think about 70%, if not more, of the total cost will actually come to Slovenia on average to the municipalities. So let's say that something 25% of what it is is is going to be this increase, which is going to be minimal, because it's actually going to be very small sums, parents are going to pay. I think it's going to be very, very little. Even for the congregation, this will be the greatest cost for the congregation, and it will not be so great, except, of course, where the congregations are large. The municipality of Ljubljana will have to spend a lot of money on this, but the municipality of Ljubljana has almost 400 million budgets per year, but you know. That's a lot of money. So I don't think the municipality of Ljubljana is going to go bankrupt or any other municipality because of this. And they also said at a public presentation. We had twice, we had a public presentation in the State Council of this law, but the proposal was that there was no public presentation. And the representatives of the congregations expressed themselves well that it seemed a cost to them to carry it because they felt that it was actually a great gain and that these people, these helpers, the assistant educators, really deserve it. And no one was protesting it. So I think we can just stop saying that. So there was a public presentation in the State Council, then there were two committees in the State Council, where there was also a bunch of invitations, and in the end there was an education committee here, where there were three times as many of us sitting in this hall as there are now, three times as many of us as there are now. And it was a lot of invitations. And once again, they weren't just one parent here, but they were representatives of the union of the worlds of parents who said they thought the formula was three-three-three very appropriate. And it was this debate that was going on about this formula, this representation, this debate, as well as the comments of the distinguished experts that came from different parts of the profession, that led to a reflection in the coalition and eventually came up with a compromise proposal. No one's gonna get hurt. I can really comfort you, I think it's up to every founder to make school and kindergarten work well. Really. I think it's a good marriage, a whole good marriage. But I must finally reject Mr Branislav Rajić's thinking, who really sees the greatest fears here. What are we going to do with this digitalization, send some letters to the kids, or I don't know what. Look, Mr. Rajic, it's not like that. Schools have their documents. Imagine this document isn't in the paper, but it's right here. This part will be on the servers, where only schools will look at it. If the principal wants to write a letter to the students, he can write it, but the principal will write it. And even today, it can be written only that this director today has this information on a private server. I'm not saying anything is wrong with the privates, but this data, the grades from the bookstores, and something else, something even more sensitive, these data can't be on private servers, they have to be on protected servers. Just like our health information; it's a serious matter. And no one, no minister, will be able to look into the assessments, a specific assessment. But he will look into public documents, and this is a testimony; but he can do so even now. However, the certificate is a public document and these certificates will be kept by the ministers of the ministry, in the part where they can be viewed. Because if you look at the current law, you can see that they're already in the central record. It's already in the marriage. Nothing but that. The second part, where data is stored in schools, will be kept by the schools themselves. All data other than those in the central record that are kept permanently shall be deleted every two years. If you have a paper diary and a paper editor, then the commission has to go to a place where it has to destroy it and do a record about it or destroy the electronic record. This is now on private servers, all these grades. I'm not saying they're being abused, but I think it'll be a lot better if it's on a government-protected server. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm really begging you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, now we have four reported to the replica and one procedural. I'm really asking you, let's stick to the amendment. The amendment is clear. And to say who writes something to someone, and how some documents are kept, and that, indeed, Mrs. Shriner, is not the content of the amendment that we are currently discussing. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u68	Thank you. Look, procedurally, chairman. Please warn the proposer, Mrs Škrnjar, that she has not eaten all the minds of this world. Because of her words, “we know all about education, you have no other idea“ My colleague Marko has been employed in the department for years, he was a fellow member of Mrs Škrnjar. [[…]] [[…]] We probably had Social Democrats, too, some minister for this area. We also have a former secretary of state as a professional associate. I'm a school kid myself, I was born in a branch primary school, and I wouldn't be talking about my family again, even what kind of school inspector we had in there, I mean, please. But with this wording, the lady also shows how she imagines the school field. The yellow bright mind knows everything. You're all fools. I mean, give me a little good morning! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u69	Dear Member, look, I don't know where it says in the Rules of Procedure, let me teach someone what to talk about. That's why I can't respect your proposal. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Slowly, you'll get first is mag. Branislav Rajić. [[…]] [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Issuance [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Here you go. Procedurally Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u70	President-in-Office, I am procedurally proposing that you congratulate today's proposer, commend her, Mojci Škrynjar, because she has beautifully explained to us the kind of school we are going to have, where students will learn that pear is the same as an apple, as the school system is the same as the health system or is the same as the cultural sector. On such occasions, she explained to us today the compositions of the worlds. Really commend her for her deep understanding of the education and school system. I'm really grateful that she explained to us so well how the pear is the same as the apple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u71	Madam Member, I recommend that you read our code of ethics and Article 8 which speaks of dignity and respect. And stop being so stingy. Mag. Branislav Rajić has the floor. You have a replica, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u72	Yeah, replica. Thank you very much. Unlike the compost, I will really use this replica to explain to Mrs Shriner where I have remained misunderstood. She said she didn't understand that I really believe what I'm saying. And yes, unlike her, I really believe everything I say here, and I say something in general. She didn't understand that I was trying to light up everything that they wanted to leave in the dark as their proponents. And she pretended she didn't understand that I understood the role and function and the importance of the janitor, the cook and possibly the administrative staff at school. And yes, and that, I must say, I understand. And really it may not be important to lose words or not to lose words, but it must also understand that I know what a good school is and not just because I think that the saints of school institutions must become what they were, stay as they were, and do not become a puppet grower who will determine the future of our children and, finally, the whole country and society. In this sense, I have been misunderstood, and I want to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Alaj Kovačič has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Vice President. When we asked ourselves where this law came from, it was more than obvious that it was written by a colleague Škrinjar herself, because she really put herself in the role of being the only one in Slovenia who knows about the school system. We're all just trying to figure something out here. But I'm a student myself after school, but I didn't just say mine was right. I quoted what the Association of Directors of Primary and Music Schools said, Association of Directors of kindergartens, Community of kindergartens, Faculty of Philosophy, Institute of Education. So, they're all opposed to you. A colleague of mine says that they're all ignorant and that everything she says is true. Thus, all the professions that should apply in Slovenia are, according to the local word, idiots. But where does her thesis go? From the beginning, when it compares the world of institutions with UKC Maribor. The UKC Maribor has a CEO, has a professional director. So, separately, he's got leadership and expertise. While the principal is so, according to his household, the school manager as well as the teacher’s manager. And for this simple reason, employees have a word in gathering themselves. And yes, as my colleague Škrnjar said, many have been sitting here from the cattle field, and no one has supported this proposal, not the way, not the content, except the parents' representatives, who said, "I think it would be good if they were equivalent." But when he talked about it, the coalition's proposal was 5+3+3. But then, as a colleague of the Boxers said, there was a consensus. I mean, what consensus? We're talking about our kids. Is this where we accept a consensus that everyone will have something? Here we must accept what is good for the education system, what is good for the children, what is good for the teachers, what is good for the country, but not that each one gets little and takes some consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Because Alaska has already said half the replica I wanted to say myself. And no matter what. All I would add is that the only thing that the proposer knows about the work of the schools is that she's the only one who has experience, this underestimation of all of us here and her self-esteem, not to say bloatedness, are a little bit distasteful. I would recommend a little more humility, but it would be easier in life. Now, as far as experience goes, I've sat in as many sacred schools as in the world of SNG, even in the world of the puppet theater of Maribor, and I wouldn't dare compare the world here, I don't know, SNG to the world of the school of the Living Voranco, because it's just unmatched. However, it is not comparable, as already Aljaž told us what the director is doing there with his professional councils and what function one director has when we know exactly what he has to do. So I wouldn't mix these pears and apples here. At all, I would not underestimate the entire profession, which has made it very clear that the proposal for a law is not right. And by the way, only when she was talking about the cost of programs and educators. Of course, we all agree that educators, assistant educators, deserve higher wages. That is why, by the way, we have tabled the next amendment to be discussed in the opposition. However, the Secretary of State here today has made it very, very clear that there will be some additional financial effects. What we all know, of course, is that higher titles mean higher wages that someone will have to pay. Now, of course, there are two options — whether they will be paid by the congregation as such or by parents with their contributions. There's no big philosophy back here. Now it is only a question of whether the Ministry will actually give more money to the municipalities to pay for this part. But that there will be disproportionates, and we also know because the story is being partially regulated for just one segment. It would make sense, as we suggested in the opposition, to do so [[sign for the end of the debate]] a public presentation of opinions, asking the expert what he thinks about it, and of course finding solutions that the expert would suggest, but not one Member, who is, of course, all-knowing and only-hearing in this country, knows the structure of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u77	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the replica, too. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Vice President. My Škrnjar wrote changes to the statutory school law, where the company's world is changing, is said to be to the detriment of the profession and to the benefit of politics. All those who are able to do so — trade unions, schoolchildren, other general public — point out that this type of intervention is unacceptable, but in the management of schools and kindergartens. But for Mrs. Shriner, there is only one saving truth, and that is, Mrs. Shriner, your truth. You are trying to convince us all how positive and urgent this change is. You can't convince us. But I would like to ask you, Madam Škrnjar, if you can please answer me, you have this option. First of all. Why didn't the Ministry file this marriage, but you put it in with your fellow Members? It's an extremely professional law. Why? At the same time, I wonder who actually runs the ministry. Is he being led by former liberal Simon Kustec, or is he being led by Mojca the Boxer? And the second question, Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, is why you have filed this law by emergency procedure. These are key and relevant changes in the management of schools. Such things can't be taken by emergency procedure, by rapid procedure. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u79	Thank you very much. It's Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I propose that in order to avoid the following replicas, which are not all clearly and loudly read Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the replica, what is the replica, because the last three executions were not a replica at all, but were implementation, and please note that all those who will use the replica for the debate should be advised to report nicely to the debate rather than to use the replica for personal accounting with the bill-maker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you, and I will really appeal and lead the session to follow the Rules of Procedure and to really replicate when someone does not understand. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got six applications. Once again, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that we are talking about the amendment of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD, the SAB and the Non-Related Members to Article 2, which speaks of the article being deleted. Let's talk about the content of the amendment. I hope I understand. Go ahead, Siter. You've got the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u82	Thank you very much for this bold announcement. Good afternoon, dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry. Now the essence of the law in these three hours has been quite clear about the law, but the essence remains clear. The essence of this law, which comes from the sent-out types of SDS, is now enrollment in education. Staffing is not a foreign, government staff, recruitment from the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate is not a foreign. Actually, we're talking about a record number here. Last week we measured that I think a thousand 354, if I am not wrong about the staff from the title of the government party, and it is funny to me now to observe this, that after the training was done to the top of the police, the Owls at the first government meeting and then to the media, to the police station commanders, and so now the SDS does not stop even when we are talking about the guidance of Slovenian kindergartens, so we are talking about kindergartens, about kids, about children from 1 to 6 years old, and the SDS is not enough or wants to cut into this sphere yet. Now, colleague Škrinjar, you have assured us, or you have invited us, that our fears are unrepentant. Now in front of us we have the education pillar in Slovenia and we see what cultural and operational massacres have caused the recruitment of incompetent personnel in all other areas of course our fears here are justified when we are talking about education, which we are talking about education. Now, beyond political obvious action, the shameless political actions of recruitment can make sense to step back and explain the techniques of this proposal. Following the current regulation in the Council of Institutions, school education institutions have five representatives of employees, so either teaching or other administrative staff, we have also heard about housewives today and so on, but in each case five representatives of employees, three representatives of parents and three representatives are called the founder, which is a beautiful and legally slightly sweeter term for politics. The founder is many times either a country or a local community, and the local community makes a choice for its representatives in the holy institutions by providing them with political parties. The SDS has a very strong local network with mayors and municipal councillors and other members and members who are close to these functions and there is this huge pool that can be recruited into the operation of this educational apparatus or any other public institution. Therefore, it makes sense in the eyes of the proposer that the number of members of the boards of public institutions be increased and their proposal is two additional members in the board of institutions, i.e. five representatives of the policy, three representatives of parents and three employees, and then this is, with something more to say, a cosmetic change with an amendment to 3 representatives of the policy, 3 representatives of the parents, 3 representatives of the employees, while the key problem remains that the employees are still without two people. Colleague Škrnjar, you are not the only one in this congregation who has sat in a fast world, an educational world or a world of educational institutions, and in the past I myself have sat two as a representative of parents in the elementary school world and in a music school, I know how things work and I know how people who are politically set get there. And it's sad that we're talking about kindergartens, music schools, primary schools, and we need to talk about political staffing here. Of course, there is also a very specific way in which this matter was accepted. Another clear and shameless emphasis on political action on the policyization of the Slovenian educational space. So that meeting, and we have already talked about it, which should not have been at all in essence, which ended in a way that should not have ended at all past the Rules of Procedure, and past the College of Presidents of the National Assembly by obstructing the debate by opposition Members and Members, and which, after all this hasty parliamentary procedure, of course, is painful, but now traditionally the government party of the SDS has ruled out the entire professional public. I don't know, the proponents you're talking about when you say there's support here on the ground for this thing, the parents, that there are some parents for the speed of things, which is also a member of the SDS or whatever, but I have on my list a key institution, a professional education institution that's all set off a rare alarm when this proposal came to them. Trade unions, we have a department of pedagogy at the University of Maribor, which says that the representatives of the employees in the composition of the world are a guarantee of defending professional decisions, reducing the number of employees in both the Department of Pedagogy and increasing the number of representatives of the founder, so politics, cannot be understood differently from the efforts to increase the impact of local and state policy on the functioning of kindergartens and schools. So, we decide either the expertise or the politics and so the department of pedagogy, don't we, Primoz Siter? And then the Association of Education Workers of Slovenia, the Government gave up the dialogue with the professional, the Department of Pedagogy and Andragogika of the Faculty of Ljubljana protesting the violation of professionalism and against the politicisation of education, and at the educational institute cautioning that the purpose of the law is the political control of education and stressing that the influence of the founder in the field of business and financing is already in place on the existing legal regime, so we no longer need politics in this area. Once again, this is not a call from the opposition MP, this is the vote of the profession. Who is more professional than the teaching institute, the Department of Pedagogy and Andragogika at the Ljubljana Faculty of Education and the Society of Pedagogical Workers and so on? So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we will all vote on this. I call for us to consider before the vote what kind of education we want and that a better alternative is undoubtedly to preserve the existing situation, because it gives employees more opportunities because it keeps the competence to run an educational institution through it. It is simply necessary to maintain the current regime, because of the workers, because of the expertise and quality of education, in the final stage also because of the defence of democracy, if you want, in kindergartens, respected proponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Let's get the mags ready. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u84	Thank you. In kindergartens, even in nursery groups - if I reach out to my colleague Primož because I have a grandson there - let us seriously ask ourselves what the task of responsible policy should be within constitutional parliamentary democracy. The task of the responsible policy should be to enable the marginal conditions for the autonomy of systems and subsystems. If it sounds a little too teachery to just provide conditions in some areas, funds for the development of personnel, and that they actually have to deal with each other how and what. Not that you want to politicize this way, like this proposal that's not well-intentioned, it's what he's trying to do. Not that you want as an executive branch of power that is in line with the National Assembly, the third eggs of the third branch of power, a court that should be autonomous. That's basically what this is about. And now, even if I ever intend to do something that I think might be well-intentioned, it's hard to find someone who would support my own, and if all the alarms tell me that it's not well-intentioned, then I probably don't know if my name is Franc or Mojca or Soni or Natasha Wait, a letter, what all these people are trying to say to me! I don't know. Well, let's say I turn over a little story. Let's say that this law is passed and then, hopefully, the SDS is in opposition and then a left-hand side of the street proposes to some kindergarten someone who, say, tweets on Twitter and then erases these tweets, that representatives of this government who will no longer be in government should be killed, that a colleague with a machete should be cut up, say, what some columnist tweets on your portals on behalf of the truth – would such a man, politically appointed, want to have at school? With all due respect, I would find it difficult to digest a political representative in the world of an educational institution that says: “A janitor may be an expert in English if he lived in England » Or who claims: “In particular if he is a congregation, if he is not a state » Hm! [[…]] [[…]] Dear Mrs Mojca, I have lived as a guest lecturer in Sarajevo for six months, but I am not an expert on the traditional culture of Islam. Second, yes, what a congregation other than the state! Municipality, local self-government is one level of territorial organisation of life in the democratic Republic of Slovenia, Article 1 of the Constitution speaks of us as being a democratic Republic of Slovenia. And what you suggest - what my colleagues have already said before me - is, somehow: “Let’s put everything on the shimmy yellow blue » And, yaw, because more than 90 and more than 95 or more people in this country do not buy this story, and because the universe does not expand in this way – the end of the world does not. [[…]] Then you want to sell us a story about how we're all stupid literally, and as if we don't know who's laying down the curriculum. And, dear God, I was the chairman of the cathedral, and they asked me to be some other term, and I didn't want to be any more, and I said look, I showed you how work is going. Yes, but then you want to have, you know, some more of this corrupt political interest in the sacred institutions, and you said yourself, yes, yes, especially the municipalities, if the mayor doesn't cooperate up and down, that's how it's gonna be. Unfortunately, it's quite the opposite. If the principal doesn't write as she wants, the local policy won't get another term. Or I don't know, news today or then someone, as we say in Maribor, will choke in elementary school, wait for why we ordered the oysters, I don't know why we didn't order the oysters from Brother Rajk. I mean, those are the facts. It wasn't Franz Duck who invented it. Maybe the media made it up. [[…]] [[background advertising]] You will, because you will sue them. You know, that's how it's gonna be. And it's not so innocent in these curriculums, [[background advertising]] We already have a history. Sookie, calm down. Natasha Sukich is a writer. She wrote quite a few good books and in the light of tolerance in this society, in short, in another and a different political culture, it might not be wrong for any of her novels to be compulsory reading at some next graduation. I'm sure you'll be crazy to get your parents to pump, politically, une, because Suki's already done her auting. You'll Google it if you don't know what it is. So don't sell me a pumpkin. You know, and that, the grades, up and down. I've said it publicly before, I'm in favor of a school system where there are no grades in primary school. We have, we have problems, you know, with this crown now, because we've spent 30 years over the school system pushing the competition a little too hard because we've forgotten for 30 years that solidarity is fundamental. Let's talk about it. And then she says, "I don't know, the minister or the minister won't do anything by the bookstores." Dear God, who says that, but he'll be able to watch the grades. She probably does, probably you, Mrs. Shriner, when you worked as an official at this ministry. I've also heard good stories about you, you probably had something else to do than dig around on estimates if you had those powers. I mean, let's be at least serious. You know, I come from Maribor alone, and in Maribor we are talking more seriously about football formations than you want to talk about now. You know, and on the one hand, you're wise as a kuriculum, how one way or another, how great you are, how we don't know anything, how you won't get involved. We have a teaching institute that is supposed to be mind-blowing, even above you, Mrs. Škrnjar, just above us and the ignorant babies from KUL, where you have a world of institutes where you have employees who say they're Igor J. Žagar, top expert, top rhetorical, we're all sticks against him. But since he justifiably criticized the absent Minister at a meeting, look at the fragment. You know, if someone wants to set up a mirror for me, Vice President Simonovich, you said let's take a look in the mirror, you have to look in the mirror first. If someone wants to send me the brains I am, of course, he has to be far better than me. And it's not just, you know, the best American humorists about politics, who, of course, hunt this gap between what's said and what's said in action, and you have this gap like that mariani braid right there in the middle of the ocean, but you're now going to talk about riding like you have good intentions. Yeah, but you don't have them, and I won't be too long. How the second Yanshe government fell apart. Officer Diary wrote about it. Five to twelve, especially in the worlds of the DSO, you've been filing your own staff. Where we were now in Covid, we know. And then you have yours. I don't know. A Grimes who doesn't even know how to quote. Something Hajek doesn't say at all. He said another Polish philosopher, but he didn't say it like Grimes said. I mean, something they used to teach us, if not in a better high school, that's when they're freshmen in college, what quotings are, what citations are. I mean, because only the blinded part of your members, which is perhaps 3,000, but not 30,000, believe this story. But it will be purchased by those who are still enjoying themselves for a few months in this National Assembly. That's it, that's it, I don't know. The third triad of elementary school is clear to them. But you know, you should be talking about what Micah Mazzini wrote in the last column, which you still kind of tolerate there on your Siolo. We should talk about how to develop the school field in the direction of autonomous rational and critical people. Of course, no politicians will like this because they will give us a much more appropriate title to the mirror. This should be the task of this ellipse of this temple, not letting Eve have a task that she must carry out. But the days of darkness come to an end. The day will begin to grow and I hope we will soon experience light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u85	The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, prepare Brane Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all my colleagues and colleagues. I am going to start by saying that, as a parishioner covering the social activities, I have been in constant contact with what has been happening in the appointment of directors, because many times there have been problems, mainly because there have been various complaints. And problems have arisen precisely because of the composition of the institution's world as it has been. I do not imagine that in the economy at any time would have the greatest word of employment or that the employees would even manage the company. Therefore, I do not understand how you can defend the fact that you have property, either in those institutions where the country is established or in those who are the founder of a congregation with the property of a congregation or a state, to allow such machete to be treated. As representatives of the people, we should advocate that, in fact, what is the task of all of us to ensure that institutions and institutions operate and operate, either at the professional level, if you wish, at this teaching work and also at the management of the institution, in such a way that there is no abuse. Why did I say abuse? Because, unfortunately, we've witnessed many times, but I don't know if you are today, if any of you have even mentioned it, we've witnessed it several times, especially when he's running back to being principal, someone who's already principal at this same school. It happens many times, and there are many cases where, despite the fact that the director has misguided and has also proved himself to be a bad leader, he is running again and he is re-elected because of his mobile and his people's re-elected and he is again creating a mobile phone. This happens in practice, in fact, to be put in those five members of the board of the institution by the employees who are loyal to the director, the existing director and those five then supported by the director forwards, gets and collects enough votes for the appointment of another term. And this director is creating a further mobbing. Of course, no one says that the principal has to cooperate with the mayor, but coordinate and talk in certain segments only has to be done. For in certain things he is bound to the direction of the local community, or to the direction of the ministry, because he is the founder of the state. Therefore, the proposed composition of the board of the institution, where a compromise has been reached in view of what has also been achieved through the committee discussion, has been shown at 3:3:3, says 3 representatives of the founder, 3 representatives of the parents and 3 representatives of the employees, sufficiently balanced and advocates an equal distinction of power between one and the other. And that's only fair if we're already looking at a profession to defend ourselves. I believe, however, that the founder or the congregation or the state should have the greatest weight. However, since you have already stressed so much through the debate who has given a negative opinion, I will say the letter we received from the MoS, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia is said to be not in favour of what you have said, given the composition of the Council: With regard to the composition of the Council of Public Education and Education Institute as the body of administration, the majority of the support for the proposed amendment has been expressed, with some members pointing out that, of course, the municipalities would also point out that a balanced composition of three representatives of each of the interest groups would achieve the purpose pursued by the proposed law. So, I think it is necessary to give the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia enough weight to their opinion. And this is also what the proposer of today’s law took into account 3:3:3. Now I would just like to tell you this, or this is really my thinking, and I will not now talk about what has been said in other discussions, but it is true that the headmaster is also a teacher's leader. But I think that in schools and kindergartens we should have the same composition as in other public institutions, namely, that there should be a principal or school director who should lead this business and then have a professional leader who would cover the teaching work. Because, in practice, we ask ourselves the problem precisely because we get administrators who are very well-manned and successful, but unfortunately do not have the knowledge of leadership. And then it happens that in fact in this second part, the lack and mismanagement of an individual school shows up. To conclude, all I would say is that we should talk about here no longer what the composition of the institution will be. For we know that the composition of the holy institution can be composed even if it is 3:3:3 or 5:3:2, 5:3:3 whatever you wish, you can always give it as representatives of the parents inside also the politically appointed persons. You know that. And then it comes out very differently, but we should talk more about improving the program, what we will do to move forward with the program. I will now not only be launching myself into the content of the programme, but also in the way of implementation. Here I think it's a key problem and we should be interested in it. Not this political part, because it will be arranged in its own way only to win. But don't hide here now that you haven't been so far, that you haven't only taken professional knowledge into account. You put your people in all these institutions, too. Therefore, it is so negligible here who will and how many members of the council will have an institution one or another or a third group. Let's get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Duck and Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u88	Perhaps colleague Ushay did not understand me well or listened to me or anything, as did Primoža, who spoke before me. In fact, you wanted to cut employees, represent politics, and then you're selling some compromise. On this second part of the story, I agree here with Mr. Shriner. I would like to say that, with the exception of rare exceptions, the vast majority of the National Assembly is not qualified enough to debate changes in the curriculum, which I do not want. Because it would be direct politicization, which is basically what you're now saying to yourself. Then we'll talk, I don't know, Noricum yes, Suki no.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u89	Sutter's got a replica, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u90	Thank you very much. To colleague Zavadlav Ushaj. Here, look, maybe it makes sense that you don't discuss your idea of school politicization too much. Because with every next sentence, just confirm it. Now you have come to some “compromising” 3+3+3 in this session because, like colleague Zavadlav Ušaj, you say power is being distributed. That's political logic, that's war logic if you want. That's political logic. Because if we say now, let's go to the National Assembly, and we have the same number of people from the SDS to cover our right hand, we have the same number of people from the Left to cover our left, and then we put another middle party with three people – and we're going to deploy power. But that's political thinking, and we're talking about educational institutions. We are talking about educational institutions from which a policy must be put out, where professionalism, the well-being of schoolchildren, their safety and their inclusion in society and in the educational system must be taken care of. But in the first place, expertise, not who wins, and who will have more power, but how we will be able to deploy. A system should be set up that ensures professionalism both at the educational level and at those, I don't know, infrastructure levels and in the area of social security for students and teachers. This expertise. And this expertise is an element that is guaranteed by an increased number of employees in sacred institutions. That's what the pedagogical profession says. Take a look at all the responses from professional organizations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Siter. I'd like an explanation. In which part of the debate the MP was misunderstood or misinterpreted your debate. It's not like that. And I ask you politely once again, we stick to the rules of procedure. Brane Golubovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We too often may or perhaps we should at first clarify what is public and what is national. And who is the country, who are the congregations. The country and the congregations are people and they have influence. And it's in public use, for the benefit of all under the same conditions. And in this way, the saints of institutions in various public institutions are appointed representatives of parents, employees, founders. And today, I have heard how some have supported this compromise proposal, how some groups have opposed it or still oppose it, and the main problem is that there should always be a compromise in the public sector, which is found through dialogue and in this case public education and preschool education, a compromise is sought between employees, founders and in the final phase, parents. And I am concerned when politicians, members of the National Assembly, are changing the roof law ourselves, which is in the field of education and we are interfering with some model of school or kindergarten management. I'm worried about that, and the Ministry reports it for 15 minutes, says five minutes at the start, and then it's quiet. And, of course, I get the feeling it's a school space politicization. If the Ministry is quiet. And I, my dear coalition, often hear you talking about dialogue, cooperation and the key to a society of respect for tolerance, progress, dialogue, cooperation, but this law does not. This law is the law of the Member States, which hastens with it, hastens in the procedure. There is no need for haste, however, since the deadlines or when a certain article will enter into force are far away. But the fact is, you don't understand the coalition of dialogue, and when I listened to the proponent who somehow wanted to let us know that we don't know anything, except she knows everything, I remember a river that says it's more dangerous than not knowing half the knowledge combined with uncritical self-confidence. That's the problem. And do you know why dialogue is also important among employees, professionals, the state or the ministry? Whether the composition of these worlds, after 20, 25 years, with an intermediate, brief change of three years, I think from 2006 to 2009, is good or not good. Does it still reflect what we want according to our public schools or not? This, of course, needs to be debated. Are the saints of public institutions the ones who appoint administrators, or could they have done so differently? But I'm saying that, without a couple of MPs coming together and saying, we know everything and now we're going to change the school system, but in dialogue, because without dialogue, by shutting down the dialogue, we come into the minds of people with half knowledge, or those who think they know everything, but they don't realize that we only know almost everything together. Could it also be said that this Council of Institutions, as the representative body of the three groups, is obliged to take into account the opinions of its proposers? The municipalities, the employees, the world of parents. Because now this opinion is not to be taken into account. The Municipal Council elects, I don't know, 3 representatives to the world, schools, parents in the school world elect 3 representatives to the school world, employees elect five representatives within themselves, which I think is right in the school world, and they are obliged to report what is going on to them, taking into account their opinions. I don't know. Maybe we should talk about it. And we could talk about a lot of things, but in a dialogue where everything is included. Not having a few Members gather and say, we know everything, and now we will change it the way we thought it would. This way of working with New Slovenia and SMC in the SDS is not a way of improving our school system, which depends on how we live in the future. Because, after all, this young generation that will replace us is what we have. There are not many, but there are a hundred percent of our future, said my colleague Jerca Korča once. And we treat them in a way that shows them that a few Members, because they are strong, are going to change the umbrella law in the field of education, the ministry is quiet, it is quiet, and we, as the opposition, as the LMŠ, should also be quiet. That's not how it works. I still believe, and we believe he knows more than we do. And the duty of you, the Ministry, would be that when such a law occurs when it interferes with school legislation, when you know that at least the unions in this area will be upset, if not more, and that at least one of the partners in this dialogue of the three will feel deceived, feel the government's distrust of them, of their work to say, react. But no, the ministry - probably by this logic you should not speak, be quiet – report 15 minutes, and you should not even allow one of the coalition parties to go into a law that is known to cause some revolution in society. We're talking about a public school, not a state school. Oh, public. And solutions in public school, in public school, in public health, in public institutions can only be achieved by involving all stakeholders in this area. Thus, from this point of view, the main weakness of what you have done is that you have passed through those for whom you are doing this - because you think you know everything and that you can afford everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The replica has a Mojca Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u94	Mr Golubović, look, there was a public debate and it was in this Chamber. We have listened to you, the parties to the coalition, and after the consultation we have also drawn up a compromise proposal. That way you can't say there was no dialogue. It was a dialogue. And we listened to you, so that's the result.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The replica has dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u96	Yes, but apparently Mrs. Boxer doesn't understand us. You talk about dialogue all the time on your side of the political ellipse, while at the same time you're shoving the roof law after a reduced procedure. At the same time, it's about some compositions, and it says Ushawe that it doesn't even matter. How important the compositions are to be seen in the home labour bodies of the National Assembly, which do not reflect the real intersection of the political current spectrum. We don't have to get out of the byte, you can see it here, and if you're such guys, let's give these compositions a change. Good morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u97	Your Honor, let's be patient! Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It's all good-bye again! I will try, unlike any other Member who has spoken to anyone other than Article 2, to deal with Article 2 of the Law, which speaks of the composition of the world, and because I believe that there is probably a lot of people who are watching or listening to us lose the green thread in individual debates. We are talking about proposing that the Public Kindergarten Council or schools consist of three representatives of the founder, three representatives of the workers and three representatives of the parents. The only change is that instead of 5 workers' representatives, 3 workers' representatives. Today we're hearing about everything we're doing in politics, but the fact is the other way around. We're going to depoliticize. If the only saving profession in our country is in the area of SVIS education, then something is wrong. If SVIS claims that this marriage is bad, then I say that this marriage is supreme, because whatever SVIS is against is obviously good. No, Mr. Siter, I didn't mention you so you don't have to have any replicas. In short, we're going to depoliticize. It is a fact, however, that whenever there is a change in any educational law, where one and always a saving political side claims that no change should be made in such small changes as the composition of the Council of Institutions in an ideological struggle, we must not be caught up in the ideological struggle of extreme left-wingers against all changes. In short, anything to keep state education where it is. The representatives of the far left don't even talk about positive changes, but they are only afraid of changes, that they will no longer control the Slovenian school system and deny the rights of the founders here. If SVIS is as secure as the current education is super, I suggest at least to the SVIS leadership that it start building schools on behalf of municipalities and on behalf of the country, because it is easier to think politically by SVIS and we know where the President has run and hide behind professional and politicalisation, to point out to us who want Mr Strukelj and his team in the leadership of the union no longer have a controlling influence on the development of the Slovenian school space. There must be an equal opportunity for all three sides. The same possibility of employees in a public institution is equal to that of employed parents, because I think that there is great progress, given many other laws in another area, that parents themselves can influence, even though they are least involved in this and not least that the founder has the ability not only to cooperate, but at least to make equal decisions on matters. Every time we talk about new schools, everyone knocks at the mayors, at the municipal administration, lobbying at the municipal councillors from that place, and ask them to invest, let us build a new school, because we don't have a situation after that from 4 million to 6 million, let us make a new legacy that costs between 1 million and 2 million, give the mayor and the municipal councilmen we need a new boiler room, we need a new kitchen, we need a new home study room, we need a new cabinet, we need a reheating, I don't know what the toilet was, which is also the case in my congregation recently, which is the founder we need. This, according to current legislation, could not have affected five employees with the help of one parent, but forced the mayor to do something. And for example, the mayor received from my congregation in all schools, which at one point would remind everyone of the urgent need. Where's the mayor supposed to get it? From Miklavzev's bag, from Santa's bag, or maybe, as I'm listening to today, from the SVIZ bag to make new boilers or new receipts? When we talk about school transports at meetings of the municipal council, give it to the mayor. Mayor, it is imperative to prepare school transport in accordance with legislation. No one asks whether it will cost 100,000 euros or cost, as in my congregation, for example, 80,000 euros. No, the mayor, come on. the municipality, the founder must pay. It is right to pay, but it is also right to co-decide, to its representatives or representatives, the founders, in each individual school what is going to happen and how it will happen. Then we have different allowances, which are somewhere in municipal budgets, the founder has to provide. But keep it quiet. This is the intention of those who hide behind the depoliticization of education. Or, for example, in kindergarten. How much do parents pay, and how many congregations? It would be interesting to get it once. I hope that even ministries may have as much money for each individual public kindergarten as parents and how much money the congregation and not least after the amendment of the law, when we have allowed families with multiple children to have free kindergartens for individual cases, as much as the state gives. Give the municipality money, the state gives the money, and be as quiet as possible and don't let any mayor brag about it, if I say 800 000 euros in school transport ladies, 800 000 in kindergarten payers and then come from other different areas, but keep quiet. In short, yes, a profession in school is needed, a good principal is needed. Whether he is a good director of economics or a lawyer or a teacher of class, we can open one general debate. I think if he's a good man, he's a good director. Even if he lives in cohabitation with his subordinates, employees, parents, and someone who has allowed him to be a principal, he is the founder who built the school and then arranged through the country everything necessary for this school to work. And yes, the profession is needed. The profession is needed by a janitor who makes sure that clean rooms are made of cooks, when around school at seven o'clock in the morning, because good girls and probably working boys are also needed, because we probably agree that if I banalize, even every goulash is not good stew and good teachers are needed. They're needed. But it is not necessary for teachers to make almost a majority of decisions not only about the profession, as the curriculum and subjects speak of, but rather about working with children rather than everything else. I think it's probably a bit of a burden for even a lot of employees when they have to hear about investments in the holy institutions of different sexes, because, in fact, he just wants to make good investments, in short, they're good boilers that will last ten years, so the roof won't go down because he doesn't really care because he expects it. Like our parents, we expect teachers to be good teachers, professional teachers, not least, be honest, ask too few times, and we often get that good teachers are also those who can make our children laugh, can praise them, and all the other things that are not part of this profession, which must be passed on according to what the school system has done so far. In short, I personally think that the primary task of a teacher is to talk about them, to teach them, and to teach them. In short, I am very sorry that we are talking about politicisation and depoliticisation today, but of course I understand. Those who take care of Slovenian public school for at least 30 years or, if you like, the state system do not agree to change anything. This is recorded in the majority media, which is finally confirmed by the president of the SWIZ union, who then paints himself as an individual party in the national elections, but he is an expert. The mayor is also an expert, and he is not supposed to be equal as the workers' representatives. The mayor should not or the political party in the municipal council propose 3 people, but if the same three propose workers representatives, this is a problem. In short, I understand that there is an ideological struggle between those who then point to our side, how we go about ideologies, but we are only trying to create some compromise in as many stakeholders as possible in the field of education. Today we talked about the whole, the whole school space is opposed, the whole professional public is opposed, and the analysis is none, because a couple of union representatives say it's wrong, because different sociopolitical workers say it's not good, it's not the whole school space. Unfortunately, the vastly quiet majority do not hope to express their views, for they may receive some kind letter from the representatives of the SWITZ that they do not work in their spirit. And I'm going to conclude why the Ministry isn't proposing this law. Perhaps the best answer would be given by Mr Koprivc, who has been employed in this ministry. Because the Ministry of Education is overly ideologically covered by the representatives of its party. And they wouldn't want a proposal like that here in the world. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't even want to prepare. And since we knew that, in the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have proposed a change in the composition of the worlds that balances the system in the sphere of public institutions, schools and kindergartens. What's more right than three, three, three? Maybe two, two, two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u100	Madam President, please do not allow the Member to insult workers and workers employed at the Ministry of Education. Finally, there are two representatives here today. And this man who insults people who aren't here and can't defend himself in all manner. [[Incomprehensible]] Today we also learned one of the reasons why we have this marriage. Yes, so that the Swiss and Mr Strukelj will not have too much influence in education. Can you imagine where we live? They're stuck in one man right now in Branimir Strukl, and then we have a marriage on the table, which is a disaster. And then we hear that people are in the Ministry, and I don't know what they're doing. I mean, people, neither one nor the other, none of them are here. And these people dare to insult people who aren't here, who aren't even in a position to defend themselves. Please warn me. He can discuss anything, but don't be drawn back to the stories in Parliament by people who can't defend themselves. And we're listening to this at interpolation, we're listening to this today. I ask that at least so much respect be shown to fellow citizens and fellow citizens in this House that we simply do not treat people who cannot defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u101	First of all, I would like to say that the Member has no objection. He explained why this was the law of the Member State and why the Ministry did not prepare this law, and he did not say that he had offended anyone, and if I am not mistaken, someone in your midst asked the proposer why the government had not tabled this law, why the parliamentary group had submitted it, and Tomaž Lisec gave a fine answer. I'm warning you again. You'll tell me first before I give you the word which article of the Rules of Procedure I violated. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u102	I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you listen to the debates because you obviously did not listen well to the debate; the Member was abusive to the employees of the Ministry of Education and Education and was insulting to the President of the Union of SWIZ. These people aren't here, and these are insinuations, and that's offensive. Even if you do not think he has spoken out of his mind, the content was offensive to these people. Please listen, this is my procedural proposal for a very good debate, so that you will know when we are procedurally responding, why we are reacting in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u103	Listen, honourable Member, I think we're going to have to make a deal here, because, in principle, if something isn't yours, it's bad and it's not true. I believed and I hope that these are our children, our relatives, and this is a very important subject and let us listen. But I have listened well to the messenger before you. The word is wanted by the government representative, Damir Orehvec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much for your word, Chairman. Anyway, at this point, I'd like to say that this statement surprised me a little bit. This is certainly not the reason why we have not submitted this, because the employees of the Ministry are certainly not one political belief, are different political beliefs and at the Ministry we do not keep records of who is of any political conviction and would really like anyone to make such statements to reconsider.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The replica has Primož Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u106	Yes, thank you. A replica of the execution of the Member of Parliament, Ambassador Tomaž Lisca. This is, now, the fact is that he resisted in his debate on one thing that I highlighted in my introduction. Now, one thing is absolute. If education, Slovenian education, is on the right track or in good condition, and we find that we are in the European Summit, the quality of the school system, then it is okay and it doesn’t matter if I say “shrafat”, if things stand and if the profession, the teaching profession evaluates it. [[…]] And now, if there are no five members in the world to say, politics or any political parties, this is not such a threat now. If this were the case, the first proposal of the SDS Group's law was to increase the number of political parties present in the Holy Offices. If this was a condition for schools to function normally, to build, to expand educational institutions and so on, then I would not have had any school in Slovenia, because so far we have not had five representatives of the founder. That's one thing. Introductory. Then, Comrade Lisec, I will not comment on your union lab. You seem to have a problem with Branimir Struckle, but they're old enough to make up their own minds. But to say that the unions are the only ones who are here, that the school union is the only one who came in here and gave his professional negative opinion, on this proposal, is a fat lie. In my debate, I went from institution to institution, from professional organisation to professional organisation, and quoted their criticism of this law. Department of Pedagogy of the Maribor Faculty of Philosophy, professional organization, expert team. The Association of Associations of Education Workers of Slovenia, who in the field of pedagogy can be more professional. In the Department of Pedagogy and Andragogika at Ljubljana Faculty of Philosophy, they also protest against the violation of professionalism and against the politicization of education at the Pedagogical Institute. What kind of regime media you're talking about? Professional organisations, cream of Slovenian pedagogy opposes this proposal because it introduces politics into the Slovenian school space and loses its expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I now have two procedural proposals. First of all, if you'll excuse me for hitting me like this before, you've heard the Ministry's representative now, so I'm not mistaken, but you've done a smooth scan of me in your own words. And secondly, to read your own code of ethics, to treat us members of the opposition well when we have procedural proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u109	So this procedural proposal of yours, I'm not going to listen to or respond to anything. The Ministry said it the way it is. I suggest we move on. Yuri Leprechaun has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you all. I will start my debate by talking about Article 2 of the amendment, and I will try to stick to it, because I know that we all, then we are going to go to the left, and on the right I will now be, knowing that we are all going to do our best and we will remain in this Article 2. That's how I'd start. I know that a fellow Shriner in the field of education is one of the widest people who would say that they know education from basic to content very wide, which from this point of view I do not even hope to argue with her about content, with programs and not my purpose. However, I certainly feel that I have done a lot with the economy, but if there was a dual system, I would already be able to say something about it, but as far as this is concerned, we are now talking about the politics and composition of the worlds of institutions that we have in kindergartens and schools in other institutions. Since 96 we know that the structure of these kindergartens was like 353 were the real three representatives of local communities, or I will say local political powers, then there were 5 representatives from education, then three representatives from parents, then for a while the story was repeated and the proposal was also in effect that they were all 333 and then back to story 353 seemed to have estimated that it was right that the employees had more people in the board of institutions. Why, right now, I'm going to try to explain below. Like I said, it's been a couple of years since it existed and it worked. If we go back to the local community. I was also the mayor for 12 years, and I must say that's not true. Who's the congregation? We are a community, and we are also a country of people, and if the founder of the municipality is not a mayor or a municipal council, but a municipality has been established, we must assume that the mayor or the mayor are not one over the people, but must certainly work according to the laws adopted by the municipal council and also the law given by the legislator. So from this point of view, I see no problem that the Council of the Institute should now only have to because the founder of five representatives is three employees. What bothers me about this story is that we had the original 353, and then we turned around and we said 533 that means that we've withdrawn two representatives of the employees and put them with local politics. What I would say in the first phase is that it is certainly the policy that wants to deal with the content not only with this recruitment but also with the content in the sacred institutions. From this point of view, I think that our policy in general would all be far less ambitious and challenging if the Council of the Institute did not confirm the locals would not really need directors or directors. So from this point of view, I know that this is one of the basic issues. On the other hand, I know from experience that we have always had great difficulty in getting three representatives of local communities to the Holy Office or the Holy School, especially because everything remained, what the Council of the Institute is doing is doing something completely different, but only one in four years is a function to decide who will be the director and who will be the director. By the way, I'd like to take a little peek at that. Let's just say it will be the way it is now, and then the minister says, "Consent or don't give consent if we want to put it into politics." It is also said that it is possible at national level to determine whether it is appropriate or not to be suitable, not only at local level. That's how I think we should be more pragmatic here. And since we're talking, who supports and who doesn't sign. A completely different answer would have come if the applicants had already given the story three or three in the beginning, which I am sure of. But we started with the proposaler that we took two employees' representatives, and we put together politicians. And from this point of view, we have already basically eaten up or eaten up a system of people who will fight against it if not. But if there was a proposal of three or three, as it used to be, it might be easier to debate and discuss what is right and what is wrong. I'm so sure if we could talk here when we're all talking about how we like to talk but we like to talk, but that's not true in this story. We have already said - why the reduced procedure - that for all the things we want to get through is a shortened procedure. And from this point of view, you are limited at first to make a quick decision, as you can see, that every single thing is in this policy. Education and education aren't the kind of thing that can save her overnight. That is why I am also personally opposed to this law being adopted in a fast procedure, I think, by a reduced procedure. But if we decide to change the legislation for ZOFVI, why not, because it's right to trade, right? Therefore, the public debate would also be good. Now that we're talking about who's against it, clearly, now they're gonna be more against it than they were for. Not to be unjust, for example, the State Council was in favor. Then the congregations, as it was said, were in favor, but they were not in favor. No association said "for", but it always said "ampak". And they all said that something could happen inside this system and something would go wrong. So it's not that simple. It is said that we should also give them more time to identify ourselves to get into the darkness and to write down what is right and wrong with all things. It is clear that in the end they were said to support, but then they spoke further, say, specifically the ZOS said: “But it is also right to take into account the fact that the design of programmes, educational programmes, is within the competence of the Ministry of Education.” The Ministry of Education, that's the thing I see a great flaw in this story. That's why we also said that the sentinel law certainly doesn't have the weight, I would say, as I would have if this ministry had suggested it. So from this point of view, I am pleased, on the one hand, that the Ministry is not currently discussing too much and that it has some reservations. But it is certainly not against, and this must be acknowledged. So now it's not a problem what kind of people are there, it's got nothing to do with it. That's why I'm also a little disappointed because Mr Lisec had a nice discussion, but in the end, I think he broke it all down with a single sentence. It's irrelevant. I'm never gonna say there's someone there who thinks otherwise than me. That's the point, we're different, we're different. And if we discuss things differently, believe that something will come to pass. And as far as that is concerned, we can say that if anything good happens, it comes from the coalition and the opposition, if we say it's a developmental thing. And that's exactly the advantage. Look, now we're making some stories that are going to be five-three-three. What happens when the power changes? Then we'll be angry again or what? I think of it as a story. Education is an education. And in education, the main education, the education of young people, children and everyone else, must therefore have the greatest strength in decision-makers. And that's the problem, too, we have teachers, we have accountants, we said, we have janitors, clearly, all of these are part of the school, and they're going to decide who's going to lead them, anyway. And if they are led by someone who is simply entirely from elsewhere, it is clear that it will not run long. Sooner or later, they will fight and make things impossible within the school and the world of the institution. We've seen something like this before. I know stories when no world institute could meet, he couldn't call because he wasn't locked up because there's something short of each other, I suggest that in this story if he goes through, he goes through. I will still fight to put this back on the path of dialogue. In any case, in this story there are those who are against it, not only SWIZ, far from it, more so that everyone else is against it, let's say professionally than that, but also scientists some, but it was less than against it. So that if we had time, we could put this weight in this direction in my own way, so that more would be in favour or against. And I repeat, if we first came up with a proposal, I'm talking about the institution's world, the composition, with 3+3+3, the debate would be much simpler, easier and perhaps come to some common goals and those of our wishes. Now we must not say that the proposal is 3+3+3 from now on. No, it was with the amendment, because it was actually impossible for anyone to accept this first proposal. So from this point of view, I think it's right to take our time. But if the sky goes, we'll just have to go back and save the story one way or another. [[Incomprehensible]] But I believe every ministry we speak is [[sign for the end of the debate]] employed people who are. Whether they see the world left or see right doesn't matter. I look at him with common sense and I think it's inappropriate for us to say that someone at the Ministry is targeted like this and that's why the law couldn't get through. I am very pleased today that the ministry does not sound like this, because given the kind of ministry we have for education, it should have a little more spine and actually it would be much better. to fight and get something through. [[Incomprehensible]] A brief dialogue, solutions and [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then we can say we're in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u112	Thank you very much. There's something I'd like to say about the bill. Look, we're Members of the field and between the expertise and the operative decision-maker, that's the government. We listen to people. It's true that everyone listens to people from their base. That is why we have different views. And this composition of the world is really also a response to this, to the event that we've detected and that I've described beautifully in this covido event. There have been several problems, and therefore one reason is that the composition of the world is to propose a different composition of the world. However, in order to have different views among Members, it is necessary then to have a dialogue to reach a compromise. And right now, I don't think the dialogue has diminished that we've heard each other here. And I really suggest that you take a good look at this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u114	Respectable, this cannot be a compromise. You excluded the entire professional public, there was no public presentation of the views. What kind of compromise are you talking about? It's just a bluff. You've drawn on your maximum option, but of course you've agreed on an option that's still acceptable to you. But it is neither acceptable to the professional public nor to the opposition, for no one else, in fact, except for you, who currently have control over this Parliament with your satellites, however we turn, and you are only playing for strength, not for arguments. So it's not a compromise, it's a deception, what you're saying now. It's not a compromise. You're turning marriage into a bad thing because you don't think it's necessary. And that's not a compromise, that's a rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Next to mags. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss this? I can see that. Then I'll open the application. Please sign in. We've got two reported discussers, the first gets the word mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u116	Thank you very much and thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that this is an important marriage. Undoubtedly, this is a law where an expert should have a first word. Of course, we Members also have the right to legislate in accordance with the Constitution. So no one would deny it. However, you would expect to listen to or at least hear a professional voice when it comes to such an important law that practically affects the entire cycle or even the educational system. The profession is one, the novelty of the law is the politicization of education. This has been said many times and many times. The fact is, in the basic law you wanted to make sacred institutions perfect, most of you wanted to make sure. Hand to heart, what is essential today is better than what you have proposed in the basic law, but to me personally, the question is why, at this point in time, why this is necessary. You have a number of things to deal with, but not, but you've found that in these last months it's still the last sigh to change certain things in your own way. Of course, after the elections, we will change things back as well as the profession suggests. But I was stung by this talk about money and that the one who must also have an influence, yes, if he gave his money I would fully agree. The mayor doesn't give these schools anything. The government gives these schools nothing, it's tax money, and according to this logic, taxpayers should sit in sacred institutions. If you have to follow the money. And if someone demands what was said earlier from the mayor that respects the law does not provide money for transportation as stated in the law, I do not know which country we live in, that it is wrong to invite the mayor to respect the laws, that we are likely to accept them in order to respect them, whether it is transport or anything else. No need just before the new year in the way you took him to a night meeting with a coerced committee past the College of the National Assembly, things are running, it's not an urgent matter, it's possible for you, because in this way, when the law is passed, you will be able to replace all the sacred institutions, that's the only thing. And maybe that's a step towards that. But then, after the elections, when we change the law and equally replace the sacred institutions back, as it is professionally better, you will probably be silent and one will scream and the influence as we now politicize and we want to push our people. There's a lot in our school system to change, to modernise, if you want, but this has to be done slowly, and especially in agreement with the profession, and let me stress once again that this repetition of how some mayor something that, how some government does something that, no, nothing does, people first earn, we earn, we produce, and then we return it back to those same people. So that if we go along this river, we can gather within the congregation where the school is, even at the referendum of those who are going to be in a certain period, or with lots, to represent a certain period, because these are those who are actually paying for all the things you mentioned earlier. And as important a law as this one definitely does not change. Again, I will say that, despite the fact that I will vote against this law and the solutions that are in it, this solution is certainly better than that when you really wanted to submit to yourself fully the sacred institutions or to subordinate the composition of the policy of all public educational institutions. And, as I have already said, of course I will vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u118	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm just going to refer to a proposaler who, in fact, in the very proposal of the law, you're basically denying yourself or denying yourself. Look, first you talk about how professional, how professional and good staff we have in schools, by educational institutions, and then you actually minimize or reduce this expertise in these sacred institutions, which is not really logical. If you're serious and what you're saying is that you believe we have a professional frame, and I believe and I know we have it, then it doesn't make sense why you're reducing it in these sacred institutions. Another issue that is problematic in this case is that we have already gotten used to it here in the National Assembly, that you are constantly trying to make or usually manage to make a political issue out of the professional question. And here it is again, instead of giving room to professions to give room to public debate and also to representatives who were from these, so to speak, and institutions and schools and ministries as well as ministries, they were essentially in favour of a broader public debate on such a topic, which is really very delicate, I will say, essentially problematic. And here's the fact that we just can't freeze or move on. There should be a public debate on this subject in this National Assembly. And even though I know I don't think, but if I did know that we have a very good education system, only with such interventions in the compositions of the board of institutions would we actually destroy it and also reduce the expertise or, I'll say, the quality of education and other things. Now, which has been so small for me, because I know some of these things, as well as some of the directors or directors who have changed in these positions, I have a feeling that you have also wisely calculated that in 2022 a number of mandates will expire for directors or directors and directors or directors after these public education institutions. Because as far as I know you, I think you've had this very well calculated that this is also one of the reasons that you actually want to do this now, so that you can do it in some soft way, I'll say, the substitutions in these positions where you want to put yourself or also have your people and I'm also afraid of political ways. The fact is that when we compare ourselves with others, I will say, even countries across Europe, one of the systems is actually Finnish, which actually allows and wants and trusts professions. And in fact, with such proposals as you are now proposing, you are in fact simply proving that you do not really trust the profession, as you say. It's called double morality again. On the one hand, you say that. On the other hand, you do that. And even on that infamous committee on which we discussed it was, in fact, very obvious. At first we listened to representatives, namely, education, education, who told one story and also wanted to discuss it at the professional level. And then we listened to that political story that we also experienced on our own. And simply, once again, given that I know that we have a very high-quality and good education system and a very high-quality and good cadre after all these schools or public education institutions, I would not only be very careful in your place and, I will say, be careful, because you will destroy one of the best systems we have, and this is actually this our educational system, from which we can really draw, we have a pool, a lot of experts, also around the world, which then actually achieves a very resounding and great success, and what is very important is that the country will also have a much better life and future in this account. And once again, I urge you to reconsider, even though I'm afraid you've already decided to accept this and move on. Let's listen, see, because the ministry representative has made it very clear to you that it is wrong to actually despise a profession that is really good and good. I don't understand. Maybe we're in a really bad way about having a minister who'd be better off not being a minister. But I know there are a lot of people working at the Ministry who know things and who know what they're doing and what they're doing very well. So I won't support this bill of yours. But you, too, may think about whether it is worthwhile to destroy the future of your children and our children, however you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? Just Mrs. Sukich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u120	I'll make it short. Please see, when I listen to all this, and all these arguments, which are not, or false arguments, which I have already proved in the first debate, I can draw a single conclusion. The applicants are shouting about state schools. What is the role of teachers and parents, called representatives of a community? Yes, that's that element, which is a very public school that separates from a state school, because you would obviously have a state school with political influence on school. So, state-owned. You are the ones who, in fact, from public schools with the influence of politics, would work in public schools with the idea that managers would be in charge at Trstenjak. And if I drew the line, you'd have state schools under your command, and we'd have public schools for everyone. As you would like and do RTV state-owned RTV under your command, we would like public RTV for all. And that's the key difference, dear, between you and us. And remember this, people see it, people see it, and they understand what your intentions are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As my colleague mag has already said. Marko Koprivc in the Group of Social Democrats of this proposal will not be supported by the amendment of the law. Because today, on the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution in the Presidential Palace, and when the President of the State of Borut Pahor said at that event that the Constitution was the fruit of an in-depth dialogue and the participation of political forces 30 years ago, I could say today that it is not the result of an in-depth dialogue in the profession or not cooperation between political parties, but a unilateral measure, I would say, a minority coalition that has always torn up most of its voices more than the opposition. [[Incomprehensible]] I would also like to say that the Legislative and Legal Service has also drawn attention to the amendments relating to the additions to the chapter regulating the databases and the protection of personal data. A rather horrifying set of data to be collected is recorded in these articles. And since we are already talking about the Constitution and this anniversary, I would like to quote the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which says: "The solutions proposed are unclear and consistent to the extent that they do not meet the requirement for the clarity and precision of the law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution and the requirements of Article 38 of the Constitution and should be re-examined and improved. In terms of this constitutional anniversary, I propose that we reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 as well as the amendments of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, SD, SAB and the Non-aligned Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments of the LMSH, SD, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 5 are substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 6, 7, 9 and 10, so we will discuss all the amendments to these Articles together, so that I am now putting to the debate Articles 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 and amendments of the LMSH, SD, SAB and Related Members. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Yes, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In the legislative process, we followed the findings or recommendations and conclusions of the Legislative and Legal Service and prepared amendments that satisfied the comments of this service. I believe that everyone can be satisfied, because also holy, so the mandates of the members of the Council will expire normally. It's only when they're finished that these compositions change. It's a soft passage. The law also fully introduces these transitional provisions, by which all changes apply gradually or more effectively, are realistically imposed. I think that marriage is good for the good of people, for the good of those who work with our children, students, students, as well as those who are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u125	Yes, thank you very much. Now, that was a more final word than discussing the contents of those amendments, just enough for a magnetogram to be clear. Anyone else want a word with these amendments? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Urška Ban, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u126	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which is the subject of today's treatment, refers to two additions, Article 20a, and Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Allow me to give you a brief explanation on both of these changes. The first relates to a solution that we have already included in the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, where we additionally allocated 3.5 percent of the eligible expenditure to municipalities with registered Roma settlements as a correction or correction of appropriate spending. Following the adoption of this provision, the need to amend the arrangements in force at that time, in particular in terms of the elimination of the imbalances that arise in the calculation of the amount of funds and the clearer record, for what purpose municipalities may use these funds. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 20a now clearly states that the funds received by the municipalities as a correction of the appropriate consumption are higher costs of their operation, or higher costs of maintenance and construction of infrastructure in the municipality, as a result of the existence of Roma settlements. It is based on the fact that the equation for the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipality of Roma settlements is not covered, but it is clear that the specificity of the municipality is the result of additional costs. Thus, the principle remains in force that these funds are intended for the municipalities to correct the appropriate consumption and are not intended, so the municipalities do not need to report specifically on their consumption. With the new second paragraph, however, we have set an additional criterion for determining the level of funds for individual municipalities. Thus, municipalities in statistical regions where the development hazard index as set out in the Regulation governing the classification of development regions by level of development is more than 125 eligible for additional funding. The second amendment concerns complementing the set of tasks carried out by the Joint Municipal Administrations under Article 26 of the Law on Community Financing and co-financed from the State budget in the field of information which is also significantly increased in the public administration. In this way, the country will further contribute to the information strengthening of municipalities, particularly in the provision of new services for the population. The amendment regulates two more editorial corrections in an article setting out how to calculate the shares of municipal resources for the balance of development. The method of calculating the amount of funds is not changed, but a lack of explanation of the individual components of the calculation equation is eliminated. These are all the amendments proposed by the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Community Financing. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working mother, and I give the floor to the president of mags to present the report of the Committee. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 61st emergency meeting on 21 December this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. The representative of the proposer, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, in her introductory explanation, drew attention mainly to the article governing certain matters relating to municipalities with Roma settlements and laying down in more detail the criteria for the allocation of funds to them, and to those municipalities which have joint municipal administrations and then participate in the resolution of this law. With regard to the debate, the main debate on Roma and the allocation of funds was, in particular, that Levica advocated that funds should go directly to them, the rest of them, and, of course, the proposalr also pointed out that they are municipalities that regulate and, in accordance with the principles of local self-government, allocate the funds themselves to solve their problems, which are directly or directly linked to the Roma problem. And that this solution, that these funds are indemnified, is, it is said, not particularly purposeful, was already in law. At the end of the vote, the two amendments tabled by the coalition were adopted, with 13 votes in favour and 2 votes against, in the second reading, the whole law in the text I am making today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr. Rudy Bear. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! A year ago, in the National Assembly, we led to the happy end of the congregation’s financial burden. This law is in the midst of a legal mess created by this Government and a coalition with supporters of the true success story for more than a half-second year. Well, almost a true success story. We designed it in the government of Marjana Šarca in cooperation with the widest consensus of municipalities. It is complemented by the current Government, which is otherwise in a different position from the previous government, because it is not bound by the fiscal rule. It was therefore able to raise the scale of the originally planned financial burden on the municipalities. It is important that the costs of municipalities are lower and that there are few legal solutions that this National Assembly is able to accept by means of a complaint. He was capable of that. At the time of adoption, however, we have already pointed out the inadequacy of the solutions proposed by this Government, particularly in the co-financing of municipalities with registered Roma settlements. He was questionable to us at that time, and he is still the very body of these congregations. For we believe that the requirement for justification for co-financing must be met for the congregation of the Romani saint. In this way, an institutional framework is also provided for the municipality to try to resolve issues related to the Roma community alone with the community. Only registered Roma settlements, according to our belief, are not enough and leave open room for the expansion of a range of municipalities eligible for co-financing. They'll be recording Romani settlements if they can get more money. Another problem that we have pointed out in the LMŠ is that the intention to use this additional money for municipalities is not commanded and consumption is not defined in anything. For example, if we were to solve the cost of municipalities with many kilometers of hill roads, which also means higher maintenance costs and the winter service, this would be easy. It's to be measured. Here we are talking about the added costs of municipalities, because of Roma settlements, but very loose. Of course, the congregations have additional costs, and it is also right for the state to help them, but the opposite is obvious. The State recognises the added money to the municipalities for a specific purpose, but the purpose of spending money is not prescribed, but at the moment and in this law we are regulating the situation that has been brought by the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, so it is more in the sense that we have told you. Now practice confirms that we were right. In the LMŠ we will not oppose the law because we hope that it will really remove the confusion in the very understanding of the arrangements for co-financing of the congregations, because the government now recognises this, a whole lot of confusion. We are convinced that the mayors know and want to spend every euro economically. It is almost unbelievable, however, for us to interpret in our own way the purpose of spending money, as the government’s representatives put it on the ground. If it is true that they sometimes thought that money was directed directly to the Roma population, if it is true that they or they intended to share money in households in Roma settlements as a subsidy for paying electricity, water and others, then we have real problems with understanding the legal definition. Then, when it comes into effect, you've been really bad or you've been communicating with the municipalities in no way, and I don't know how this way of spending money could be excused by the mayors in front of the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will be next in line to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u132	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposal for a new Law on Community Financing. The amendment brings a number of things, complementing the set of tasks co-financed by the State budget, then mentioning an editorial correction in Article 15 of the Law on the Financial Discharge from the Financing of the Communities and regulating the financing of municipalities with registered Roma settlements. Following the entry into force of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which was adopted one year ago by 81 votes in favour, and substantially intervened in the provisions of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, there was a need to amend the arrangements for co-financing the rights of the permanent Roma community. Individual congregations drew attention to the imbalances caused by the enforcement of that legal provision. In this way, the Government has drawn up a proposal to more specifically regulate the co-financing of the municipalities held by these municipalities in order to ensure the rights of the permanently populated Roma community. The applicant assesses that this eliminates the doubts of individual municipalities regarding the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of the rights of the Roma community, while at the same time adding a criterion for determining the level of resources to individual municipalities relating to the developmental hazard index of the regions. In the second reading, a debate was held on the monitoring of the use of these non-purpose funds, although we have already defined these non-purpose funds in the above-mentioned Law on Community Financial Dismantling. At this point, I would point out that there are 25 municipalities with registered Roma settlements. As a result of these settlements, these congregations have additional obligations and, of course, costs, which makes it right and necessary for these congregations to receive additional financial resources. Social Democrats are expected to address the identified shortcomings after the introduction of the new Law on the Financing of the Communities and that the funds will be distributed to the municipalities in a proportionate manner and that these unused funds will be spent accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye. Let me begin by saying that this bill is unacceptable for us both in terms of the adoption process itself and in terms of content. As far as the procedure is concerned, you have again undermined established democratic standards in the coalition with the assistance of the President of the National Assembly. The law under consideration concerns the financing of municipalities where members and members of the Roma community live. The Law on the Roma Community provides that public authorities, public authorities and authorities of the self-government local communities must obtain a prior opinion of the Council of the Roma Community when adopting or issuing regulations and other general legal acts when it comes to regulating the situation of Roma. There was no direct opinion, as we heard on the committee. The same applies to the adoption of laws relating to congregations. The clerk is clear. Any law relating to the congregations shall be forwarded to the congregations by the President of the National Assembly for an opinion and set a time limit not to be less than 30 days to respond. In the case of this law, the legal and commercial provisions mentioned have been eloquently violated. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure on 3 December this year and the President of the National Assembly initially acted in accordance with the rules in force. The SDS then decided to apply for an extraordinary meeting, and the President of the National Assembly, by a new letter, this business term was reduced to 15 days, despite the fact that such a short period is possible only in cases where the law is adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure and today's law is not. This is about as if the fundamental legal principle were to be laid down, legal and business provisions must be respected unless the SDS requires otherwise. And that's what we've been witnessing for the past two years. Instead of the rule of law, we have a government of SDS. These are inadmissible, undemocratic and entirely authoritarian practices that the President of the National Assembly should and could have stopped, but they are not. For us, the content of the law is unacceptable. The law refers to the financing of municipalities where members of the Roma community live. Article 20a of the Law on the financing of municipalities provides that the State shall allocate additional funds to the municipalities to co-finance the exercise of the constitutional rights of the permanent Roma community. Today's proposal provides that the state of the municipality will allocate funds to co-financing the obligations of municipalities with a permanent Roma community. It thus transforms the means of purpose into non-purpose. In the debate on the Committee, it showed why this change was made because you simply made a mistake in the dictatorship last year. Well, we supported the mistake we had so far in Levica last year because precisely defined purpose meant the well-being of the Roma community. This change in non-intention is absolutely unacceptable to us. The bivan, social, cultural and economic situation of Roma is already too much dependent on the good will of the current, state and local authorities. The countries and municipalities are guilty of the fact that many Roma live in unworthy conditions and, instead of ensuring the purposeful use of additional funds for the benefit of the Roma community, the municipalities will be able to spend additional resources on anything; they will continue to live in socially unregulated settlements without water, without electricity, without basic living conditions. We strongly oppose such blind thinking at the expense of the Roma in Levica, so we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The main amendment to the Act is related to Article 20a of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which brought it into the Law on the Financial Discharge of Fathers in December 2020. This Article provides that municipalities with registered Roma settlements from the State budget shall be provided with funds to co-finance the realization of the constitutional rights of the permanent Roma community. The funds shall be provided to those municipalities for each financial year at the rate of 3,5 % of the expenditure of the municipality. The novel achieves a more specific and clear understanding of the co-financing arrangements of municipalities held by these municipalities in order to ensure the rights of the permanent Roma community. The slightly amended text of Article 20a clearly provides that the funds received by the municipalities as a correction of the appropriate consumption are to have higher operating costs due to the existence of Roma settlements. It is based on the fact that Roma settlements are not included in the equation for the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipality, but it is undoubtedly the specificity of the congregation. Therefore, under this provision, some additional resources shall be provided to municipalities in addition to the appropriate expenditure. Thus, the principle remains in force that these funds are intended for the municipalities to correct the appropriate consumption and that they are non-useable and therefore do not need to be reported to the municipalities on their consumption. There has been repeated misinterpretation that funds are intended primarily for the Roma population in these municipalities. In this context, understanding of the provisions in some cases went so far as to divide the funds by households of Roma settlements as a subsidy for the payment of electricity, water and other services provided by municipalities and the State through public economic services. The amendment also lays down additional criteria for determining the level of funds for individual municipalities. Thus, municipalities in the statistical region where the NUTS 3 Development Hazard Index is set out in the Regulation governing the classification of the development regions by level of development for each programming period is more than 125 % of the eligible additional resources. The paper complements the set of tasks in the field of information and communication technology carried out by the municipal administration groups and co-financing from the state budget. The public administration is increasing the share of the tasks of individuals with artificial intelligence and the Internet, and the things that increase the need for staff that are able to manage and carry out the new tasks of the municipal administration. This ensures professionalism and transparency in the provision of digital services for the population. In Novi Slovenije we will support the proposed legislative solutions as they are in favour of municipalities with registered Roma settlements with additional financial obligations for regulating the housing situation and other challenges of the Roma community, as well as other people in these municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u138	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on the financing of municipalities primarily refers to a clearer arrangement for the purpose of allocating funds belonging to municipalities with registered Roma settlements. About one year ago, a law was passed on the financial burden of municipalities, which also intervened in the provisions of the Law on the Financing of the Communities and established a procedure for co-financing the realization of the rights of the permanent Roma community. Since the entry into force of the Act, the need to amend the co-financing arrangements for the rights of the Roma community has been demonstrated in practice, as the provision has been misinterpreted. Thus, the proposed amendment to the Community Financing Act provides for a more appropriate method of allocating funds, namely the funds received by the municipalities as an adjustment to the appropriate spending. The municipalities that have registered Roma settlements in their area have a greater volume of work and higher operating costs. In particular, it is the costs of municipalities, the regulation of the housing situation of Roma and the cost of maintaining and building infrastructure. The fact is that the Roma issue is quite complex and needs to be addressed properly and effectively addressed. As there is no need to report unintended funds to municipalities on the use of those funds. At the same time, it was pointed out that the use of funds for other purposes could also occur. I must point out that in the SAB we support the purposes of granting additional funds to the municipalities in which the Roma communities live to regulate the situation of Roma. We believe that local communities are aware of their responsibilities in solving problems. I add that not all municipalities with Roma communities are included in these municipalities, which belong to them. Thus, for example, Maribor, where the most Roma people live, is excluded, so in the SAB we want Roma issues to be addressed properly for the Municipality of Maribor. The novelty also introduces changes in the co-financing of the common municipal administrations, adding to the tasks co-financed by the state budget the tasks of informatics. The need to employ new staff in the field of information technology has emerged. In the SAB party, we are aware that quality of life of citizens and citizens is crucial to the quality and efficiency of local self-government. That is why we have also proposed amendments to the Triglav National Park Act in 2020, under which park municipalities now receive a total of €4 million more at annual level. The differences between municipalities are still too great, both in quality and in mode of action. Therefore, the development of the congregations is particularly important. Stable local self-governments are a condition for the successful functioning of the country, so they must be able to carry out their statutory tasks. According to the applicants, the Novelova is aligned with the interest associations of the municipalities and will allow municipalities with registered Roma settlements to better fulfil the statutory tasks, so we will not oppose it in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u140	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! Today, we have in our consideration and decision-making a government proposal for a new law on the financing of municipalities. The legislative proposal follows the objective of a more transparent and efficient procedure for allocating funds to municipalities with registered Roma settlements. The reason for the amendment of the law which provided additional resources of 3,5 % of primary consumption to municipalities with registered Roma settlements as a correction of primary consumption was the numerous warnings given by municipalities of disproportionateity in the calculation of the amount of funds. In addition, the legal provisions were written in a certain part in unclear terms because some municipalities interpreted them in a way that the funds were intended to be shared by households in Roma settlements as a subsidy for the payment of electricity, water and other services, which was not their purpose. Thus, the new law brings two key changes or additions. The first is the amendment to Article 20a, which now unequivocally states that the funds received by the municipalities as a correction of the appropriate consumption are higher operating costs because of the existence of Roma settlements. Higher costs related to the maintenance and construction of infrastructure, the regulation of housing conditions in Roma settlements and the cost of many other challenges affecting Roma communities. Thus, in addition to adequate spending, municipalities are provided with some additional resources, and the principle remains in force that these funds are intended to correct the appropriate consumption and that they are not intended. The amendment also lays down additional criteria for determining the level of funds to individual municipalities relating to the Development Hazard Index. Another key amendment to the bill is the amendment of Article 26, which adds to the set of tasks, to the common municipal administrations co-financed by the state budget. To date, 11 tasks have also been added to the field of information technology, which will contribute to the information strengthening of municipalities, particularly in the provision of services for citizens. In our parliamentary group we estimate that in the case of this novel it is necessary to make changes that will allow for a clearer regulation of the co-financing of municipalities and thus the development of many Slovenian municipalities with Roma settlements, as well as faster digitisation of municipal administrations, so we will support this amendment of the Law on Community Financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar's next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Last December we passed the Law on the Financial Dismantling of Municipalities. Members of the Desus Group were then, as today, convinced that the basis for the effective functioning of the municipalities is a consistent funding system, with an appropriate volume of financial resources commensurate with the powers of local authorities, and an appropriate budgetary management system. Establishing relations between the State and the local authorities is a continuous process in which the whole relationship, often in conflict and competition for limited financial resources, is constantly being built up. Systemic resources often represent constraints in the faster development of local communities. While on the other hand citizens' expectations and demands for higher quality public standards are constantly growing. Local self-government is one of the pillars of democracy, is guaranteed by the Constitution and represents an important criterion for assessing the democratic development of the country. Last year, he intervened, among other things, in the provisions of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The proposed amendments that we are considering today are due to the practical application of the law and their aim is to improve the system of funding for legally designated municipal tasks. The correction in the equation, which calculates the amount of resources to balance the development of municipalities, is entirely technical in nature and it is essential that 77 and a half million euro of additional revenue for municipal budgets was realised this year. There was also a need to amend the arrangements for co-financing the rights of the permanently populated Roma community and for co-financing of the common municipal administrations. Individual municipalities with registered Roma settlements have pointed to the imbalances caused by the enforcement of the provisions of the current law. With the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, it will be decided, after a new one, that additional funds will be allocated to municipalities with registered Roma settlements as a correction of the appropriate consumption of the municipality of three and a half percent of the annual calculation. At the disposal of all kinds of matters in these settlements, these municipalities have the need for higher funds for regular operation. It is essential, however, that these funds are not intended for the congregations to report on their use. Co-financing of the joint municipal administrations from the state budget is a method to promote the rationalisation of operations by linking certain functions between municipalities that are geographically close. A self-sustaining function would be a disproportionate cost to them. Currently, 11 different tasks are being co-financed and 12 more informatics are being added to support joint community projects in the information field. This is the co-financing of labour costs and material costs. Local self-government, as a specific autonomous public-law area, is the foundation of social and state regulation in all modern European countries. In doing so, the principle of subsidiarity is re-established, the exercise of which is the decentralisation of public affairs or competences at the most appropriate level and this principle of subsidiarity has played a key role in this regard. It is a matter of constant reflection on the sharing of powers with regard to the regulation and conduct of public affairs between the State and local communities. The formula for sharing powers that the lowest or most well-founded level of power is everything that cannot be better and more efficient and more rationally realized at a higher level means that the state also takes account of the role and position of local communities in the political system. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Community Financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the views of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. The law regulates the distribution of money so that municipalities with fewer Roma financial resources can be more appropriately redistributed. In Slovenia we are not aware of the problem of Roma, because this problem is knowingly confused under the carpet. The Prekmur Roma have shown and proved that it is possible to adapt to the Slovenian people while maintaining a unique culture such as Roma. In the south-eastern part of Slovenia, however, they hold the stand so that we can have many beautiful children only because of social transfers and benefits. For example, 9 members of the family receive more than 4 000 euros per month. We believe that it is appropriate for their tentacles to be closed and that all ministries here to coordinate and step together, because this is the only way that this pressing issue will be resolved. Not everything is to be put on the burden of the congregations. We also see the problem of evicting from the municipalities or the problem of Romani coexistence and not from the Roma. Furthermore, if the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport introduces compulsory at least one year of kindergarten attendance before entry into primary school, Roma will still be caught up in the right time and will be able to achieve more than 15 years of schooling. However, if the driving test of the primary school conditions continues, these children will be forced to make primary school and will be placed on a better basis for further life. We have given both initiatives to the Slovenian National Party but once, as the ministries show, they are afraid to do so. Some municipalities, mayors, Members have long been pointing out the inequalities that are now taking place in the calculation of the amount of funds that we have already warned in the Slovenian National Party. The needs and challenges of the Roma community vary across Slovenia and municipalities have different additional costs. The proposed amendment is welcome as it provides that additional financial resources shall be allocated to the municipality with registered Roma settlements. Only those congregations with a Romani councillor should receive funds. We have also given this initiative. We made such a proposal in the previous law, and unfortunately the National Assembly rejected it. The municipalities that don't have it and don't want it, I don't know why we should be getting the money, because even the legalized settlements should have it not to have it illegal. All municipalities in Slovenia with Roma have a cost, so that in Lower Slovenia, in Prekmurje and in Posavje. All Romani settlements are not arranged in the manner they are decent and are equipped with a variety of communal facilities. In some places, Roma still live in containers with no water, electricity, heating, and elsewhere in the real villas where there are other Mercedes, Audis and BMWs, perhaps something else. In the Municipality of Krško we are aware of cross-cutting problems related to Roma or Roma settlements, which also cause more pollution, some regions in Slovenia are more, others are less at risk, so we must not put them all in the same basket. Slovenian municipalities have more and more money to raise averages, which is a big plus, so they must develop over the coming years even though they have Roma settlements. In the SNS, we believe that each municipality is in the interest of maintaining, building infrastructure, building municipal infrastructure and public lighting. We trust local governments to make effective use of additional resources. Because the municipalities know best what their Roma and the rest of the population needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u146	The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down by the Constitution and the law. It also follows from our constitutional design of municipalities that these should be able to carry out local affairs on their own or to satisfy the needs and interests of their inhabitants. Therefore, in this mandate, we have addressed under two governments the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, the aim of which was to reduce the costs and administrative burdens and increase the revenue of municipalities to carry out their mandatory tasks. This was not merely a matter of savings, but from now on certain municipal powers have been defined as state powers, thus transferring the financial obligation from the municipal budgets to the state budget. The original version of the law referred to amendments and additions to nine laws, and we later reached out to the provisions of three, i.e. a total of twelve. Among other things, the Law on the Financing of the Communities. It added a special article which regulates the co-financing of the realization of the rights of the permanently populated Roma community in particular or outside the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipalities. As a result of the exercise of the legal rights of the Roma community, it was found that these municipalities have on average higher costs than the usual municipalities without Roma population. This year, at the beginning of the year, the government adopted a final list of 25 eligible municipalities with registered Roma settlements. Since 2017, the amended Article 20 of the Law on the financing of municipalities has no longer contained provisions on co-financing of municipalities with a permanently populated Roma community for the purpose of exercising their rights. Since the Law on the Roma Community did not provide specific rights, the State budget did not provide the municipalities with specific resources, but the resources were provided on the basis of sectoral laws or policies. In 2014-2018, we decided to take a more active approach to improving the situation of Roma in the country and to seek a programme and legal framework to facilitate Roma inclusion in the wider community. On 1 March 2018, the Government adopted the draft law and forwarded it to the National Assembly, but did not have a hearing due to early elections. Unfortunately, none of the following two governments have decided to proceed with the legislative procedure for that law. Therefore, we have taken into account the fact that the responsibility for the situation of Roma is shared between municipalities and state authorities, at least in part, by which we have recognised that municipalities with Roma populations have higher operating costs mainly due to Roma settlements. Therefore, the provision of the new Article 20a should be interpreted as correcting the appropriate consumption of these municipalities and not as a payment for the actual needs of the Roma community in a specific municipality. In view of the partial solution, the provision is unfortunately interpreted differently, even in the way that these funds are intended for the Roma population or that it is a provision governing the co-financing of the realization of the rights of the inhabited Roma community. We will support the correction of this provision, but point out that these co-financing funds are unintended and that the state must be aware that the situation of Roma communities is still not addressed in a comprehensive manner. For example, if municipalities can address the living conditions of the Roma community and municipal equipment and cover the costs of maintenance in settlements, they still need the assistance of the State to co-finance the construction of basic infrastructure. The State's action is also necessary when it comes to measures to prevent the consequences of the less favourable socio-economic circumstances of members of the Roma community and could also be listed. Notwithstanding the fact that this government has set up a working group to address the Roma issue, which has already drawn up a report on its operation as well as some proposals for action, once and for all it will be necessary to decide whether to continue to set up an ad hoc working group and to insist on the fragmentation of the regulation of individual measures and the good will or understanding of individual measures. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Ministers. According to our assessment, it would be more reasonable to adopt a legal basis for establishing binding inter-sectoral cooperation and funding for measures that will not be left to the decisions of individual ministers alone. And that's only the power to do that with changes in the law. In view of the importance of providing digital services for the population, we also welcome the local level or the level of municipalities, as well as the information strengthening of the functioning of municipal administrations. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] new Article 26. On the basis of the arguments, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As a last resort, the SDS Group will present the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u148	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. With the new Law on the financing of municipalities, which is before us today, we solve 2 problems, namely, to further co-finance and regulate the criteria for this in municipalities with Roma people who have Roma settlements and to further co-finance those municipalities which have community administrations in the workplace when it comes to informatics or the introduction of information services for the population. A special quality, according to our assessment, is that the funds allocated to municipalities with Roma settlements are not intended, so the municipalities themselves are in line with the principle of autonomy based on local self-government, directing and deciding where they will be allocated and how they will use them. These are not funds intended for the Roma population as such, but for the municipality to manage those key things that are for the benefit of the whole population and thus, of course, also reduce the possibility of conflicts, the institutions of individual matters and at the same time compensate those additional costs which generally stem from the fact that an individual municipality in its area of Roma settlement does. For all these reasons, the proposed law in the SDS Group will be unitedly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision will be taken in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. That is why I hereby end this agenda item and the 90th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. and 35 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 3.20 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 15.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u150	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 1, 2 and 3. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – secondly, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, within the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' Groups of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD, the SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 2. Explanation of the vote, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u151	Yes, thank you very much. With this amendment, we delete the main amendment of this bill, namely, the amendment of the law changes the composition of the schools' councils, for the ratios previously applied – 5 representatives of employees, i.e. teachers, 3 representatives of local communities, i.e. municipalities, 3 representatives of parents. Now, the law compares to 3:3:3, and the original solution of the law was that the relationship between representatives of the congregation and representatives of teachers would be reversed. It is said that 5 “citizens” and 3 teachers, which would of course mean that the mayor and his men only get one more vote on the side of parents or teachers and have a majority of which they can appoint a principal and of course change the arrangements in schools. We propose that the relationship should remain the way it is, because the results of Slovenian schools are good. A PIS survey was carried out in 2018 [[?]] , in which 79 countries participated and Slovenian 15-year-olds were found to be above average in all three trials, i.e. reading, mathematical and natural literacy, compared to OECD countries. In the case of natural literacy, only Finland and Estonia had better results from European countries than our students and students, and only the Netherlands and Switzerland had better results from those two countries. In short, our students and their results are at the top of Europe and at the top of Europe are because Slovenian schools work well. Slovenian schools work well because they obviously have a human rights policy and the human resources policy is right in them because teachers have the dominant word. And secondly, because we left politics at the school door. This novelty of the law brings only one thing and has only one purpose, it is to strengthen the power of politics in schools. Last time someone said, one of the proponents of the law, that, what kind of politics, please, because we're talking about local communities, and the municipalities, but there's no politics, because there's also people there. [[?]] They just want good, don't they? [[?]] set up, [[sign for the end of the debate]] that we have a policy and its opposite is good. If this is a mental picture of you introducing this change into school, that's all I'm going to say to you, that's how grading 5,000 years of European thought is. I mean, it's so, well, yeah, not medium, I mean, it's going back in, somewhere, in the Iron Age, I mean [[…]] So what I'm going to say is, of course, we're going to support this amendment because [[sign for the end of the debate]] Slovenian schools work well and if something works well, then you do not change it, and this government changes it only to have political influence in Slovenian schools in recent breaths.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' Groups of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD, the SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 3. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' Groups of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD, the SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 5. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 6, 7, 9 and 10. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendments of the Left, LMŠ, SD, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 5 have not been adopted, amendments to Articles 6, 7, 9 and 10 have become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments by second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Lidija Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u153	Thank you, President, for your word. Why do we believe that this law must be rejected in the LMŠ? Firstly, because this proposal is simply about politicisation of school space. Secondly, because the proposal is opposed to the entire school term. Thirdly, because the procedure of this law, as far as we are concerned, was at stake because you voted on us in the proposal for a public presentation of opinions, you voted on us in the proposal to treat the law in a normal manner and to vote on a reduced procedure, even though the things that have entered into force in this law, of course, will not be believed in 2024. Fourthly, because you brought a new proposal to the board every 5 minutes and it looked about like a market where the trade from 533 you came to 322 now in the end and you voted 333. Fifthly, because we are in LMŠ against the policy of local mixing against the policy of awarding the right director and trying to confirm those others who are not the most real and who do not like any of the mayors in our schools or municipalities. And also because, at this point, teachers should thank themselves for their work and for the work they did during Covid's time, because if there were no teachers like them we would have the fabulously best distance education we want to sell without the spine minister of course would not have been successful. For this we should thank her here not for the reward of taking their word in sacred schools and taking two representatives away from them. This is rejected and this is unacceptable, so of course in the LMŠ we strongly oppose such a way of adopting the law as you envisioned in the coalition. I heartily wish those of you who are like the quasi opposition would have found that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u155	Thank you very much, President, for your word. After the attack on the public media, after the office on the independent police, the coalition decided in its latest sighs to attack public and quality Slovenian education. The coalition wants to change the structure of the management bodies of Slovenian schools in the face of policy. It wants to increase the impact of political February, which is unacceptable and unacceptable entirely in line with the functioning of this government and of the Janshism in the last year and a half. In doing so, let me say that, above all, it is unacceptable and unacceptable that the procedure was also undemocratic, that you have in fact silenced the opposition on the committee, that you have decided to proceed with an urgent procedure despite the fundamental changes in the management of Slovenian public education, that you have heard the profession, that you have heard teachers, that you have heard the union, that you have heard the directors' organisations. And the only survivor who knows what is right for Slovenian education is the Slovenian Democratic Party. Inadmissible and rejected. And in doing so, let me point out that we can write such important laws in the government, in the ministry. In addition to politicians, there is a profession in the Ministry. However, the law was written by Mojca Škrynjar, along with friends from SDS. That is why we will vote decisively against such solutions by the Social Democrats. And I assure you that after the end of the Janchism, the end will also have to be done to such practices and to change the validity, to put the professions and teachers and teachers back into force. In Slovenia we have an excellent education and we will not let an iliber click destroy it in a year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Luke the Moon on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u157	Yes, thank you very much. Now, as has been heard several times now, this law has been adopted or adopted in the complete absence of any dialogue with those involved. All, literally everyone who knows anything about Slovenian education, have been identified against, principals, teachers, teaching institute, department of pedagogy. Anyone you ask who knows about Slovenian schools is against changing it. But the reason is simple, I've already said it in my position. We have two extremes in Europe. In Finland, which enjoys the reputation that schools in the world are the best, education is practically left to teachers who know what they are doing. In Macedonia, however, you have a political system that is set up to replace all directors when the government is replaced. The results of one school and another are well - known. We were now closer to the Finnish model, you're moving us to the Macedonian model. Why exactly? Probably not because it would be for the benefit of the students. Probably not because you'd think well, as that motioner I quoted earlier mentioned. And for all these reasons, of course, we will vote against it because I do not see any other thing in this marriage proposal than an attempt to strengthen policies in schools, political parties. And why exactly is this coalition doing this? Yes, apparently because the customers associated with the Slovenian right have much more mayors than the other side and it will be convenient for the mayor's people to have a little more words in schools than they had before. There will be no benefit from this except that you may promise yourself that you will be able to raise a generation that will be more imaginatively closer to you, but, as we say today, we will oppose it, and after the elections, I hope that we will reverse it as soon as possible into a state where the future of our children will be dealt with by a profession that is qualified and educated, not by those who would like to. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] of which they had political benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u159	We will, of course, vote against these changes in the SAB. The changes were not prepared to talk to the expert. The changes were not prepared at the Ministry. The amendments were prepared by the SDS Group. The only purpose of this law of yours is to replace all sacred institutions from kindergartens in one swing before the elections. It must be made clear that your first trends were, of course, much more brutal. Most of you wanted to make sure in these sacred public institutions. You and the amendment made it a little easier. We are surprised, of course, that you handle these things that have been arranged instead of regulating things that you should. Instead of dealing with the epidemic to tell people what will apply next week during the holidays, one day before or two days before the start of the holiday, people do not know what they will be able to do, what they will not be allowed to do. You have not been able to prepare the law on communicable diseases within six months of the last vote when you broke it yourself. These are things that should be discussed urgently in the National Assembly. This thing that we are voting on is certainly not so necessary. I agree, however, but after the elections, there will be a lot of changes or repairs to be made. Once again, in our Group of Members, of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u161	Yes, Your Honor and Your Honor, this law has gone wrong on a procedural basis, and we already know the meaning of it. It's a little procedural. There was no public opinion presentation, all of it was forced. An emergency procedure has been enforced. There was not even a presentation of all the Members and Members who applied for the word, because we were simply not given the word and we were skipped, which is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And, of course, after a quick procedure, it is urgent for you to put a policy before the new year in schools in a way that allows you to choose your own administrators. Of course, I'm going to go to such solutions where in smaller places the mayor, the priest and the elected principal will decide everything, I can't land and I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. The task of the responsible policy is to ensure autonomy and the marginal conditions for the operation of systems and subsystems. Of course you are light years away from this, you want to replace everything. But soon the day will come when they will largely replace you, and I am already looking forward to this beautiful sunny day, even though it may be pouring like a cable by then in April. I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, chairman. With this law, the ruling coalition from the worlds of schools would like to sweep two out of five teachers just to strengthen the influence of politically appointed locals in these sacred schools. In Levica, of course, we are opposed to the fact that schools are subordinated to politics. At the very least, what Slovenian schools need is the enhanced impact of local SDS parties, also known for their mafia activities. Ironically, in the debate, we were able to listen to the thunder of the right hand, which this law proposes, if we have our own schools of state. In fact, the strong impact of the community in the form of representatives of teachers and parents in secular schools is the difference that defines public school as a common good and not just a state school with which politics is mixed. And let Slovenian schools, i.e. public schools, stay like this. I will vote against this law because I do not want school leaders in this country to put on Trstenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Branislav Rajić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u167	Thank you. This bill reduces the number of representatives of the profession in sacred kindergartens and schools and gives the majority of decision makers set up by the policy. This will endanger the existence of professional autonomy in the sacred educational institutions. The coalition by applying the government's agenda to subjugate the teaching profession, to implement the agenda for directing models of opinion and to establish a system that is the first step towards the modern inquisition. The applicants did not agree to a public presentation of opinions, but 25 000 signatures collected in education and education are more than that - a public presentation of professional opinions, as well as a mass one. This proposal is dangerous because it leads to instructing children to incorporate a dictatorial principle, and it also leads to the intimidation and control of teachers and administrators. The cover of digitisation is the cataloging of all children to whom they can even send letters from the government cabinet, similar to those we all receive today at our own expense. The new tribes will try to tear away the minds of their families, if they think you're different from the big brother, so I'll vote no.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At the meeting of the Committee, it was quite awkward to monitor the course of the meeting, not only because of the incidents that had taken place due to the disputed management of the committee and the decision-making process, which were so important not only because the important law which was being received in the National Assembly could not and should not be proposed by ideologically burdened parliamentary groups such as the SDS, but because the whole section, the whole section, is against the amendment of the law. The only link, the only organisation that was defined for, was the association of the municipal municipalities, if I am not mistaken, all the other professional institutions, institutions, were opposed. So, respectable and respected! Janš's regime slowly penetrates all systems and subsystems of our society. We're not talking about the police here anymore, we're not talking about the prosecution anymore, we're not talking about the economy anymore, we're talking about the policy of getting into the decision-making of who will control the action and direct the functioning of kindergartens, schools, repeat, kindergartens, schools. So, we absolutely must not support such manners because this regime does not belong to Europe, and this regime must remain as soon as possible. It is time for democracy, it is time for free Slovenia in the sense that politics withdraws from those who come from the profession when deciding on the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u171	Thank you, President, for your word. Now, if we leave on the committee's side and trade from the original proposal 533 to 322 to the end of the political consensus, as the proponent said, where everyone should be satisfied, and obviously not only our children, if we leave the legislative and legal service, which has written an opinion on more than ten pages, if we leave behind an information officer who alerts us to what is wrong with this law, where there is a violation of some legal basis for the collection of personal data, we today have a choice or we will vote against this law and we will listen to a group of primary and music school officials, a group of kindergarten administrators, a community of kindergartens, a philosophical college, a teaching institute, is said to be all professional, whether we will vote for and listen to the self-inclined voice of everything, as this is today, which has also actually offended this profession. My decision is very easy, I will listen professionally and, of course, vote against this harmful law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also vote against this law, because the SDS, at the right hand of all public institutions, overruns the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the profession, democracy, even the College of the President of the National Assembly, overruns the opinions of trade unions, directors, etc. It doesn't matter. The country is their prey, and so they see everything as state-owned according to the system of states it is me, they will now submit to the school system quickly. We must prevent this and, of course, once Jansizem falls, we will have a lot of work to do to bring the country back to normal, because it must be stressed, public education, public health, public RTV, public STA, police, they must remain in the hands of the profession, depoliticized and certainly not in the hands of Janshism, where they will, I don't know, lecture about the character and work of your great leader, and there you will place some monuments in the museum with huge statues of the greatest quasion of the independent. The school system must remain neutral, free and without political interference, so I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, for 46, for 42. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Financing in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. An explanation? Explanation on behalf of the delegation of Dejan Židan. On your own? Who on behalf of the Group of Members? I guess not. In his own name, mag. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I only advertised to explain why I'm going to vote in favour. Because I also know that this law is being amended at the initiative of the mayors and their co-workers of the Premur municipalities. These mayors are our mayors, because they have come to realize that there are some things that need to be clarified in financing some of the Roma issues. As a club of the pomurs at the time, I even had the opportunity to organise meetings of both the mayors of Premur as well as the mayors of Premur with the competent minister, Boštjan Koritnik. Several necessary actions have been carried out and the result is a change that takes account of the situation on the ground and also takes into account the developmental development of individual municipalities. The result is that, despite all of this, the developmental threat to Prekmurje still comes an additional million and a half euros a year. That is why, in this place, I will vote in favour of the law, because this is a law that is in line with the Prekmurje mayors, and also on behalf of Prekmurje, I thank Minister Boštjan Koritnik this time for listening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u176	Explanation of the vote in its own name Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u177	Your Honor! I have already explained in my position on the committee, but I will say again why I will vote against it. Because there is a major amendment to Article 20a. By the way, last year's diction was clear. It was a fund-raiser to help Roma in Roma municipalities. Now, however, this doctrine is changing to make it a non-purpose means to help the Roma communities. Which means that the mayors may, at their own discretion or at their own discretion, make these funds available for whatever purpose. It is said that even for a rondo anywhere in this municipality, but not necessarily for the help of Roma, although the funds come at the expense of the Roma. And that is why, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 8. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The President of the Commission, Ivan Hršak, would like a word in order to further explain the proposal for a decision? I guess not. Would you like to speak to a representative of the parliamentary groups? I also find that I don't. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a public sector wage system for a period of 4 years as representative of the National Assembly the Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti as member and Rudi Medved as alternate member. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 12. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. They are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the president of the Committee on the Economy and on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre? Comrade Perich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u179	Yes, Madam President, I'd like to request a procedural hearing. In particular, my procedural proposal would be that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I should request a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u180	Before deciding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that at least this debate, if anyone else wants us to finish the word, then you will be given 10 minutes of breaks before the vote. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Bran Golubovic, I see he's raising his hand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u181	Thank you very much. For 9 months now, Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure has been violated in this Assembly in such a way as to break the relations between the members of the working groups. These do not reflect the relations between the parliamentary groups. The coalition, with its partners, holds significantly more seats in the working bodies than it would have, and this is how their voice is significantly stronger despite having significantly fewer members in the parliamentary group. Let me just give you a case. The SMC Group, 9 months ago, has somehow fallen from 10 to 7 Members, or I think it was from 8 to 5, I apologize, but still retains two Presidents, Desus has 4 Members having two Presidents and a Vice-President of the National Assembly, and all this affects the procedure for the adoption of various acts in the National Assembly, so in the LMŠ of this proposal, if we cannot support this vote, because we believe that this relationship needs to be regulated first. If we allow this practice to continue, it means that we have set some standards that are not true, and I do not want anyone in the next term to respect these standards, that the coalition will receive a majority in KNOVS with some satellite, that the coalition, which is a minority with some satellites, gets the majority in different working bodies, does not do so and that is why we will not support this proposal in the LMŠ and we will not support any proposal until within this house these relations are aligned as they must be and as we say parliamentary practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič on behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u183	No, in his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u184	No, then I would give priority to those who represent the views of the groups of Members. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u185	Yes, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much, President. We join the opinion of colleague Golubovic. At the time of these changes, we have repeatedly warned that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly separate two situations. One is the fourth paragraph and the other is the fifth paragraph of Article 33. I firmly believe and the SAB Group that this National Assembly does not respect the wording of Article 33(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that when determining the number of members in all working bodies belonging to each Member Group, account must be taken of the size and the number of members of the individual parliamentary group and the relationship between members of the ruling coalition and members of the opposition when determining the seats in each working body. The relationship between members of the opposition and the coalition is definitely not represented properly. We know that some small groups of Members have disproportionately many members on important committees and in the SAB Group now, with the next amendment, we would like to point out once again that this is unacceptable. This can really lead to some new practices where each time a coalition will totally usurp the boards and then it will not be possible to work at all. Also because the SAB Group has acquired a new member, we ask that a new cut be made as soon as possible and that a balance be established as required by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u186	Thank you. Matthew T. Vatovec has the position of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u187	Thank you, President. Of course, our attitude is similar. Look, since the collapse of the SMC Group, when it formed the Unconnected Group of Members, we already have some kind of violence here on the job of a minority coalition over essentially the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This Rules of Procedure clearly set out how job cuts should be made. We have, of course, highlighted this several times, tried to explain to the coalition that in this way there is also a dangerous precedent, if you want, in this National Assembly and that these relations have a significant impact on legislative procedures. If, for example, we had the appropriate relationship between the coalition and the opposition in the Mandate-Election Commission, we would not be deciding in 4 days on two illegal decisions to appoint the Radio Television Supervisory and Programme Advisers, because they would not have been voted on. And it is similar in the number of different decisions and also in the laws that go through the process and come to the National Assembly. And in this way, of course, it's unacceptable. Now, the SMC Group is essentially just doing a rustling within this remnant, which is in this shell PS SMC. But the fact is, do you really own two presidential seats? Yeah, I don't think so. [[Incomprehensible]] Do you really have the right to have up to 2 members on individual committees, given that the Group of Members is large 5 seats? I don't. In fact, the situation remains, as well as this proposal for a decision made today by the SMC Group, essentially changes the names of the presidents and vice-chairmen in the 2 committees, and we are facing one serious and problematic situation, which is that in this Assembly in the past year and a half there has been a rape of the Rules of Procedure and of all democratic standards that we have known in the past. And from this point of view, we will not support these exchanges in our parliamentary group, although, of course, it does matter, because they are, in fact, at odds with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Is there any other position on the Group of Members? I guess not. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Natasha Sukich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u189	Thank you, Your Honor. I am joining all these arguments that have been made. Look, we are witnessing the total breakdown or full usurpation of this National Assembly, the complete breakdown of the system, the complete breakdown of the rules of procedure. There are meetings where the Rules of Procedure no longer apply, where neither Members nor Members nor the debates are obtained, in short. And now some SMC Group, which is increasingly shrinking, would continue to have the same representation, both in the working bodies and, of course, in the functions of these working bodies. It just doesn't work. And I think it would be time for you to meet and the cut to be done as it should be. And then we'll see how many Presidential and Vice-Presidential posts belong, say, to the SMC Group. So at this point it's unsustainable and abominable already, it's such an anomaly that you haven't seen it. And, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u191	Yeah, I'm just going to give a little very plastic presentation to maybe those who monitor us through the screens, why we're even making that decision today. The fact is that colleague Udovč stepped out of the party specifically, the former SMC party, entered another party. And the fact is, my colleagues are obviously colleagues from the SMC, the SMC Group, because the party is no longer, and they are slightly offended. And now, by all means, power in a democratic way, they are defending this position that is supposed to belong to them. They shall defend the presidency of the Committee on the Economy. If we look at it from the other side, in fact, the SMC Group has lost one member, it is to say, although the official colleague of the Udovč did not step out of the parliamentary group, but if it did not, we would not be deciding today on this proposal to replace the chairman of the committee. And if we look at the actual situation, the SMC Group makes up a total of four members. By comparison, the LMŠ Group has 14 members and we have all the same number of members in the Committee on the Economy. Thus, the SMC, which has 4 members, has 2 representatives on the Committee on the Economy and the LMŠ, which has 14 members, also has 2 representatives on the Committee on the Economy. In short, it's that imbalance that's actually going to be very eye-to-eye and that's what we're sowing out. In fact, the voice of the LMŠ Group on the Committee on the Economy, as well as elsewhere, but we are talking about the Committee on the Economy, is almost three times as valuable as the voice of the LMŠ Group. And virtually this means one thing - that the SMC Group, with three times the power, is part of the electorate. As we recall, a large number of voters have also lost their term of office by changing positions and so on. In short, these are the relationships that have been broken to this extent, so that we should really re-mix the cards if we are to ensure some democratic functioning of the National Assembly. For the fact is, we have already heard today that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is a small constitution, command us that all the working bodies are composed by reflecting the power of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Once again, when the SMC Group has two representatives on one committee, it consists of four members and, on the other hand, the LMŠ Group with two representatives on the 14-member committee is higher than the surplus. And it is time for us to sit down, Mr President, this also calls for you to convene a working meeting again, and we are re-forming it in all committees, not just the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u193	I'm gonna be a lot shorter than some people think. That's what I'm gonna say. I looked very closely at the faces. By the way, to comply with procedural rules, I will vote against it. I looked very closely at those faces on that side when I listened to this criticism of violation of the rules of procedure, of disproportionateity. And most of them look at the phones and the floor. Because they're embarrassed because they're ashamed. Because they know it's fucking true. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But I'm gonna tell you why the hell it's true. Remember the time when President Borut Pahor sat up there. There in the last bench, Comrade Tanko will remember, and probably another Member, because they have remained in the well-deserved ministerial posts, as you have been obstructed for several months because of the disproportionate distribution of seats on committees and commissions. Because it was illegal for you and I know what else. On your knees Borut Pahor came to ask you to come for God's sake to establish democracy in the National Assembly. Well, of course. [[…]] I know it's hard to listen, but it's embarrassing, but it's hard to hear the heart. But there you had to drag Mr. Peric aside by the ears to explain a few things to him about how these things were going. This is called a metaphor for the ears to be drawn, yes, what has the power of the largest coalition party as leader of this coalition and who is in fact responsible for this parcel of armament that happens in the National Assembly. I've said it over and over again, and I'm gonna do it again because it doesn't help you. This is, you who want democracy to be implemented must first respect the form, which means the rules of the game. Then we can talk about content. But you're not even worthy and capable of knowing what form is, let alone respecting it. And that will eventually take you — the little things. None of this has ever fallen because of the big stories, because of these little things, you're going to fall in the end. Of course I'll vote against it. And I'll remember you or they'll remember you, depending on what happens on April 24th, when the cards are re-mixed. And when you cry, some of you won't be able to get committees in certain positions. Once again, I said clear out loud, I'll remind you or they'll remind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I thought Jani would mention it, because even at the beginning of 2014 because of some biomass at the beginning of the SDS, you didn't take what was yours. Then after a while you must have been a little itchy money, and Janša moves you a little bit and punishes you in this way who is more at the trough who is less and then you wanted yours and we retreated. You remember Dani that much, don't you think? Is that right? No, you forgot. Now, colleague Tina has made it a little complicated, but you know, when I look at this, it's supposed to be forgiven, the two Members of Parliament from Izola are a little bit smaller after the growth. And by this logic, obviously in Desus, another MP at the SMC, I think that if we decide that this is a positive discrimination that we support in the National Assembly, I will support it. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u196	Look, please, please don't go to the personal level because it's really not worthy. Winning Jelinčič has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I don't know, I don't think Mrs. Udovč has left the parliamentary group yet, she hasn't resigned from the parliamentary group. She only went from the party to the other party. This is said to continue to be a member of the Group of Members and remains a position and everything as it was. I don't know why all this sausage business is here, if the actual situation is the same as it was a month ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u198	Comrade Jelinčič, get your nose covered, come on. My friend Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u199	President, thank you for your word. I didn't even want to mention this thing because I think this is your thing, this is your college thing. And I was hoping you'd solve this thing yourself, but because the month and month and months are over and nothing is saved because it fits that way. You don't know the rules anymore, it's become a clean market. The market. This is where he trades votes, that's all. They leave one alone who knows he'll get a voice anywhere. And that's what pays them. In finance, SMC has four and a half members, because I did not understand the status of the fifth member, because I do not understand if it is SMC, if there is something concrete or concrete or not in the register. The public on TV said she'd be a single member of the public on TV in front of everyone. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] It's a shame to sing the word three hours later because you know you're gonna lose all your privileges. Now he thinks he's going to be the president of one committee, which I don't know, but I don't care about, but it's unfair to the SAB, which we have six Members and one President, and in Desus we have four Members, two Presidents and one Vice-President of the National Assembly. That's a shame what's going on. And this must not be happening I mean, there is no moral here in this House anymore. [[…]] And let's be clear. It's not fair. But that's not fair by SDS we already know that, a lot of things when you don't respect the laws don't respect anything. And apparently also the rules. That's what it looks like now. But what I'm curious about is, how are you going to vote for a settlement now? Is it worth it or is it not worth it? Will you get a vote from half the MP or, I don't know, what else? I want to know what's gonna happen here, too. Because now, I'm sorry, I didn't understand what it was? Is there still SMC? It doesn't exist? Is it concrete? I haven't seen anything in the register that hasn't been erased yet, not new, because I've looked through the register every day, at least to know where we are. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I've got a register in here, I'll show it to you right now in a minute, only you don't know, you support digitization, you don't know what digitization is. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Chief President, I just wanted to say this, let me handle this matter. I think it's last time to really, really, because it's really four months before the election, but at least so many faces this SDS should have, at least so many faces, that it can fairly distribute forces in different committees and commissions. [[…]] That's all. Because now it's not fair and it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u200	Natasha Sukič, I think it's also for procedural No? [[…]] ♪ And I ♪ [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u201	I mean, I just wanted to ask if I could, but then he skipped me, colleague Bandelli, maybe you could explain, because I can't or didn't know anymore, or could I replicate in essence, Comrade Jelinčič, that's why we're doing such a circus? Yes, of course we do, because the cuts are always wrong, because five or four or half, it doesn't matter, it's been too hard before, in these months. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u202	Comrade Duck, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u203	Yeah, I need to have it procedurally. I'm listening to all of this, and I would ask the president that you warn your colleagues that we're not offensive to people who work at the market, because if there were a quarter of "casine" on the market, as Marko would say, there would be a health inspection, there would be a market inspection, and such a man from the market would have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u205	I didn't mean to call back either, but, of course, Marko warned in his typical way about the problem here which is the point. On the one hand, it is an unfair division in general, among the parliamentary groups, as we have previously warned the leaders, and on the other hand it is a truly bizarre situation that we should all resolve together here. The point is that our Rules of Procedure do not stipulate that if a Member has been elected on a list and we know that in this country, in this proportional system, you have been elected for the benefit of a party, I have repeatedly said that who is comforting that he is elected for himself to continue to do so. You have been elected for the party and someone elected for the party can then, this has happened to Mr Polnar, or in one year or three years from now, as it happened to Mrs Udovč, these voters of this party will resign, step out of the party, in the case of Mrs Udovč goes to another party, even publicly on television, and our Rules of Procedure do not allow that own delegation group to exclude him. That's what I'm saying so people will know. Thus, the Member who has stepped out of your party may, in fact, have failed voters, for his own benefit, as in these cases, decide not to resign from the Group and the Group of Members, in which case the SMC Group is now the hostage of its former Member, who still wants to hold a presidential seat and who still wants to have some privileges, but at the same time is no longer a member of that Party or what they are now, or what they are, and what they are, on the other hand, a coalition that could jointly punish such behaviour by a Member, whatever, and say, because of all of us who can be in such a situation tomorrow, such behaviour cannot be tolerated, it will now be because of this market even perhaps, as I see these discussions now, even allowed, and this is really crazy. We must urgently change the Rules of Procedure. The moment someone gets out of the party, he has to stop being a member of the parliamentary group, and we should all do this together, and now, I'm just wondering what's going to happen with this vote. Let's let Mrs. Woodcock stop, let's see, maybe the SDS will give her a function, and then we'll see where she is. [[…]] Let the electorate know what a Member represents. If Mrs Udovč gets a new presidency from the SDS coalition, that's their right, these cities have a lot, that's their right, that's their right, that's legitimate, but people will understand what happened, that there's no SMC anymore or that there's actually something more medium possible, but now, it's much more to the right and that it's not a good country. Let the relationship be clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan signed up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u207	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, once again welcome! I must say that I have a problem myself, in fact, how to vote, because from a distance it all looks like a struggle within a single tribe, not a tribe that is on the side of the opposition, but a tribe that supports a government that should long ago be the past. But I have to tell those of your colleagues who don't see as well in the middle as I do. The visual condition already looks terrible. Monica with her body on one side, Matthew on the other side. One will climb up to the SAB any time, the other to the LMSH. It's already physically hard to watch. How can such basic things be done, such as that if someone gets out of the parliamentary group, it should not really be that we are now dealing with the emotional situation of a single parliamentary group, which we no longer know the names of by discussing 90 Members and Members. I don't care what's going on inside the SMC, which isn't happening anymore, but let me basically agree in this way that we don't look at this sad picture one way or another. I mean, I don't even understand, like, Matei, I have to tell you if you get out. You can't get out the way you don't get out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u208	My fellow Jew, please don't do this to ad personnel, it's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u209	But I'll tell you all the time if you can, because you're not doing your job.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u210	No, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u211	The committees are no longer constituted in accordance with the Constitution's direction and you are the first to be a defender of the Constitution. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u212	It's true. It's true, it's a fellow Jew. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u213	but not that you're playing some kind of interplay. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u214	It's true. Just please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u215	a mediator between us where it does not belong. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u216	Look, please, don't go to the personal level. That's not going anywhere. There's no one in the Criminal Court here, so I don't know what you're whipping or anything. The fact is, we're going to have to redistribute our working bodies, and we're going to depend on some willing majority who has or doesn't have any democratic feelings, so far she hasn't, but that's it. Not personally, please. Comrade Koprivc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u217	Thank you very much. President, I don't understand how we can't go to a personal level if we're deciding on one particular person. I don't know. Just explain to me if it's possible. But I would like to point out here that this is a broader issue that did not begin with the exit of Mateya Udovč, but with the entry of SMC and Desus into the government of Janez Janša and with the issuance of electorates and voters. In fact, these two parties made a clear commitment not to do so. And when they did that, they were just voters, and the polls found out, they were rewarded in gimmicks, and the parties disappeared from class. And because the client’s public opinion was no longer perceived, there was a great panic and thousands of pieces of it began to break. One part went out first when he saw it, the other part a little later, and now it's Matthew the Widow. But this is all an extension of the SDS. Dear colleagues and colleagues do not go blind. You're looking for solutions, I'm sure the voters know what you've done, but it's all irrelevant. This is about providing support and most of the SDS and the government of Janez Janša for the next few months. Please deal with me honestly, it is completely inconsequential, because the fact is that the ratio of forces to the leadership of the labour force in the National Assembly has not been in line for some time now with the actual relative position of Members and Members of the coalition and the opposition, but I do not think they will solve this matter even in these few months before the elections. You're funny. You're funny. As my fellow Jew said, there are others watching each other through each other, and together you have cooked what we have Jansizem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u218	Bojana Muršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u219	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the current composition of the National Assembly, we have markedly disproportionate employment in working bodies, which I must point out for over a year. These exits, enters, transitions from one Member to another Member Group, I think it actually destroys all this balance that we have. Maternal working bodies are extremely important in the further legislative process. If there is disproportionateity on the working body and then there is a vote, then this law can also be adopted in the procedure below, and this is a major, major problem. Therefore, it should have been a new cut a long time ago, but given the composition we have, the question of what will be added together, and if we are to somehow establish some rebalancing is the last, last time to restore balance in the working bodies and also to determine who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition, because we have customers who have signed agreements with the ruling coalition, we also have a minority who support this government, which is also evident from all these votes, and also these two minorities are many times the weight of voting in the National Assembly. And here's the problem, and that's the big problem. I do not dispute, of course, because minorities have exactly the same right as it is, but minorities decide on the majority of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, this re-incision is absolutely necessary. However, in so far as anyone chooses to step out of the parliamentary group or from a party that has to take note of this and then take over all the consonants that they are, sit in the last bench and act as you are ordered by this term of office. It's a little funny. We have the SMC Group on the other side. The SMC is no longer a party because it has been renamed concrete. I don't know if it's yet entered into the register, and then it's still to be understood that this group of Members is not being renamed. Because in the previous term we had the name of the Mir Cerar delegation to the Modern Centre Party Group, and I know that it went extremely, extremely fast. But I just don't know here anymore. There is still an SMC Group, but we already have a party in particular, and the President and Specifically is supposed to be the legal successor of the SMC. So it's a little strange here now. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'd like to express my opinion to the end, Comrade Pojbič. Because I always listen to you, I never speak. Indeed, what we have in this National Assembly is truly unusual, insane, and simply the time to go to the elections. As long as the early elections do not take place, it would finally be time to be April 24th and somehow voters and voters will say who deserves to sit in this National Assembly, who is then the coalition, who is the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u220	Thank you very much. He still has the SMC Group to make it clear. I'm not informed of any other name. Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u221	Yes, if I'm going to connect to the front door, they've specifically put Slovenia on hold. The party that came to this National Assembly with promises under the rule of law, anti-Anti-Anti-Anti-Science and all, is now here where it is. And it's very sad. I only call on you, Mr President of the National Assembly, to take into account, however, the calls made by the opposition representatives and to make a new cut. Because the situation is unsustainable. Janism and this system shall be kept by the votes of the non-existent parties. And this is problematic because laws are adopted which are extremely important for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And it is unacceptable that this Parliament does not at all reflect the will of the people. Let me remind you that it has already begun with Mr Polnar's exit from Desus and that he is still in charge of the committee. Moreover, it still has views on behalf of the DSUS, which has already given up on this Group of Members. So what are they now? DESUS task force, independent faction? I mean, it really doesn't work. And what happened now with Mrs Udovč is just the continuation of this practice, which leads to a complete anarchy and a stronger law. So I lay on your heart, let's sit down, let's get some sense back and set up a system that will be sustainable, even if four months before the elections. And I really hope the sun shines on us in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u222	Thank you very much. More? Comrade Koprivc, you've already discussed this. Anyone else who isn't? I'm closing the debate. Before we move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to dismiss President Matej Udovč from the Committee on the Economy and appoint Vice-President Matej Udovč and Vice-President Gregor Perič in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, I allocate 10 minutes of breaks to the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy. We will resume the meeting at 4:50 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.39.) (The sitting resumed at 16.50)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-22-SDZ8-Izredna-90.ana.u223	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 50, for 22. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 90th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
