ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Gregor Židan, Jožef Horvat, Only Bevk until 2 p.m., Robert Polnar until 2 p.m., Monika Gregorčič from 11 p.m., Bojana Muršič, Franc Trček until 13 p.m., Soniboj Knezak until 13 p.m., Alenka Jeraj, Nada Brinovšek, Karmen Furman, Suzanne Lepimenko, Eva Irgl, Violeta Tomić, Matjaž Han, Franc Jurša, Alenka Bratušek, Matjaž Nemec, Franc Rosec, Aljaž Kovačič, Iva Dimič, Maša Kociper and Andrej Černigoj from 13 to 15 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the third draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Regulation of the Market in Work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Mario Fekconi.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Nice greetings, honourable Members and honourable Members! The law that we have tabled and will most likely be confirmed in this consideration is the first indicator that the recognition of inequality in the treatment of cross-border workers has begun. The right acquired by this law is based on the European Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems. The principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination in that legislation allows an insured person who pays into an unemployment scheme in any Member State to have the same rights and obligations as a national of that State. However, the principle of the portability of rights which also stem from this Regulation allows that if a person is entitled to payment in one country, he/she will also receive it if he/she lives in another country. The current regime places the worker in an unenviable and discriminatory position in the territory of the European Union, where the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital applies, at least in the social benefits segment. Several words have also been said on the basis of the functioning of the system and the principle of solidarity in the previous examinations of this bill. The proposal of this law does not touch on the principles of solidarity, at least not in Slovenia. In Slovenia, the situation remains exactly the same, only that more resources can be obtained from the budget. But the matter is different abroad – there we are in solidarity with them, and they are not with us. We pay much more into the system, but we get much less than we do under the same system of solidarity, only abroad, in the country where we are employed. And that is what legislation should balance and establish a just solidarity system in the European area. That is why we have a regulation on the coordination of social security systems. It is clear to everyone that cross-border workers spend all their income in Slovenia, even if they earn it abroad. This brings EUR 150 million to the Slovenian budget, in addition to all the VAT benefits. In addition, we need to add all the natives who live in Austria, which we see at weekends in Slovenian shops. Dear Members, we should be proud of the cross-border workers, thanking them that they are still loyal to this country when it comes to spending. Migrant workers save the social distress of the periphery, they are the most profitable export product. Of these, the State of Slovenia has only and only income, benefits and no costs. Therefore, as President of the Migrant Workers' Union, I ask you to think at times of the meetings of workers travelling across borders. Dear Government, I'd like to take this opportunity. From now on, you have closed all border crossings in Koroška just at critical times when people go to work. We do not expect you to applaud us, to thank us, we just want you to listen to us, to take those 15 minutes of your time when we ask you to meet. Numbers and mathematics show that we are a very important factor in government revenue. In the future and also in other matters, give us an opportunity to find out together, and you will learn why we are a priority and not an obstacle in this country. There is an even greater challenge for migrant workers in the future, as well as for Members – a proposal for a law on income. On this occasion, we have been waiting for everything since the end of the special tax relief, but this is another story, much more important and probably full of surprises. We're ready for them. I hope that human reason and dialogue will prevail there, as in this law, and not merely an ideological basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The initial explanation of the Government's opinion will be presented by Matej Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, the representative of the proposalr! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by the Trade Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, with the proposal with the amendments tabled being partially supplemented in the context of its consideration on the home committee. That proposal provides for the fixing of an exemption from the maximum amount of unemployment allowance for migrant workers who, in the country of last employment, would be entitled to a higher financial compensation in the case of unemployment. The proposal provides that the right to a higher financial compensation for unemployment of unemployed persons who are resident in the Republic of Slovenia and who have obtained a full insurance period of 10 months in the last 24 months prior to the occurrence of unemployment in another Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation shall be granted to another Member State of the European Union or to the Swiss Confederation. It is said that the proposal concerns border workers. For these unemployed persons, the proposal provides for a new maximum amount of cash compensation for unemployment, i.e. a thousand EUR 785, representing twice the current maximum monetary compensation granted under the Labour Market Regulation Act to unemployed persons who have been employed in the Republic of Slovenia or who have been active in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. 892,50 euros. Furthermore, the amendment provides that that exemption shall apply only to the first three or the first five months of receipt of monetary compensation, since, in accordance with European rules, the Republic of Slovenia is entitled to reimbursement of the cash compensation paid for a period of three or five months from the competent institution of the Member State whose legislation is applicable to the person, that is, the migrant worker, lastly applicable. The bill is prepared in a way that it can be implemented and is therefore proposed to approve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	Good morning! Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! This law proposes that some 40,000 Slovenian workers working in neighbouring countries receive the highest compensation they would potentially receive when unemployment occurs. But the real injustice is not that about 40,000 workers are not entitled to a higher remuneration than everyone else, but that for 800,000 workers, the lowest compensation is set at a level that does not allow survival, but the life and dependency of social assistance, which many do not benefit from because of the stigma or ignorance of the system. The lowest wage for a worker to survive with is currently just over €400. Such a low remuneration can offer no security to the worker, although at the time of his employment he pays contributions precisely for this case. That EUR 400 did not prevent a serious risk of slipping into poverty in 2016, is an empirical fact demonstrated by the Institute of Economic Research study in 2017. The absolute poverty threshold for 2016 was 613.14 euros. The current amount of the lowest compensation, however, is even lower than the short-term minimum cost of living, i.e. less than €442. The first point to be settled in the area of these refunds is, therefore, an increase in the minimum wage to at least the minimum cost of living. That's exactly what we suggested in Levica, and you didn't accept our amendments. It is also true that the highest remuneration a worker can receive is lower than the minimum wage. With the priority increase in the lowest compensation, we have therefore proposed in Levica the increase in the highest, but in a solidarity and equal way, so that for all 800,000 employees, it rises to the minimum wage level, not by raising for some, but not for others. But you didn't support this for all the same lift. Such partial interventions, which leave out 760,000 workers, are extremely problematic, as they are based on misinterpretation of systems that operate on the principle of solidarity and not on the insurance principle. In universally accessible health care, we are all given equal treatment in the public system, regardless of how much of our wages we contribute to the health treasury. The same applies to compensations. Workers with different high wages contribute differently, but all, with the exception of the privileges for us Members, are subject to the same maximum and lowest compensation limit. It would be wrong and insolvent for the highest compensation to be raised only for those who, due to higher wages, also pay higher contributions, but that is exactly what today’s law is based on. As the Legislative and Legal Service has also wanted to explain in its consideration, today's proposal establishes a different treatment of unemployed persons, which is the only reason for this is the only location where they performed their work before losing their job. This proposal, which was actually created under the auspices of the SDS, means that the SDS only understands electoral mathematics, not the needs of the people who rule them. We have therefore proposed in Levica that all 800,000 workers intended to live with 400 euros be compensated at least at the minimum cost of living, or EUR 613. We have also proposed that the highest compensation should be raised to all workers, to the minimum wage level or from €892 000 to €24. These amendments have not been supported by Members and Members; unemployment insurance remains at a shamefully low level, below the poverty threshold, below the minimum cost of living and below the level that could in any sense provide for survival and security, for which workers end up paying a contribution. We won't support this marriage in the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats under our auspices we have accepted the party RESET, which has fought for the rights of migrant workers. In Novi Slovenija, the ReSET Party saw the potential and similarity of the program, saw the credibility and the fulfillment of our promises. Since then, we have become even more aware of and exposed to problems relating to migrant workers, even though we have already tried to solve their problems. Amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Law provide for an exception to the maximum amount of unemployment compensation, which is limited to 892.5 euros. However, for migrant workers, the amount of the refund shall be limited to a maximum of EUR 1 000 785 for the first three months of receiving the refund, or for five months if the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of employment in the Member State of last application of the legislation. After three or five months, the limit of 892.5 euros will also apply to migrant workers. The draft law will only impose an additional burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the short term, as, in accordance with the European Regulation, the amount of compensation must be reimbursed by the Member States in which the migrant workers were employed. The system of reimbursement applies to the first three or five months of unemployment of migrant workers. The goal of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats is to stop the removal of workers and families abroad due to better conditions. These include unemployment benefits, which reflect more adequately the level of social security contributions paid. In Slovenia we have a well-educated cadre, which could easily find its career opportunity abroad. As we are aware that every evicted worker is a loss to Slovenia, we want to improve the conditions for migrant workers to stay in Slovenia. The cross-border impacts of the European economy must be reflected in balancing workers' rights. In addition, the state will not give charity and will not allow free living. It will make life in social security possible, and whoever is social, is willing to give up something, as it can count on that he may need and will get help from himself. Those who rely on the solidarity of the state have an obligation to contribute. Solidarity, however, prohibits the exploitation of social security. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are aware that by improving the conditions of migrant workers we can make it possible to better and, in view of the neighbouring Austria, where migrant workers from Slovenia usually travel to work, more just conditions for receiving unemployment compensation. For these reasons, we will also unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed law before us provides for an exception to the maximum amount of unemployment compensation for migrant workers. In the country of last employment, they could also benefit from a higher remuneration than determined in accordance with Slovenian legislation. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia, 892.5 euros were the highest possible refund. This exception would be taken into account for the first three months of receiving the refund, i.e. for a period for which the State of the last employment of the worker in accordance with the Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems of the Republic of Slovenia shall reimburse the full amount of the benefits provided by the Republic of Slovenia. However, a period of three months may be extended for a period of five months if the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of employment in the Member State whose legislation was last applicable to him in the past 24 months. In the SAB Group, we are aware that such problems also need to be addressed. We also agree with the proposaler that the problem of unemployment compensation is particularly acute during the covida-19 epidemic because a large number of cross-border workers, particularly those from Austria, have lost their jobs. In doing so, these workers received a lower remuneration than they would have received if they had complied with the legislation of the Member State where the worker was employed. Which is, in fact, in view of the fact that all funds are recovered, unfairly sought and sought for correction. However, in the SAB Group, we must draw attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the solution before us can constitute a discrepancy with the European Union's legal order and lead to inequality in relation to workers working in the Republic of Slovenia. We have already pointed out this during the discussion on the working body, but the Government representative did not pay too much attention to this, which we are already accustomed to, and expressed his support for the bill. In the SAB Group, we will still support the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation Act. We believe that the proposed solution for migrants after years of efforts to address this problem will bring relief. The solution still sounds just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On the second reading of the bill, we have expressed doubts about the draft law, which is the result of a narrow interest group of people and improves the economic situation in the event of unemployment being created solely by them. Let me repeat what's wrong with most of us. First of all, in the proposed exceptional increase in compensation for unemployed workers, we doubted already in 2013 about the decision taken by the Ombudsman of the Slovenian Constitution when, in relation to the special tax relief for this same group of people, he said that the more favourable tax treatment was incompatible with the Slovenian constitutional regulation provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution, which commanded equality before the law. The analogy of both cases is obvious. Distinguishing citizens and citizens on the basis of their legal position or location of employment abroad on the fact that residence and thus the use of common budget money services to which persons do not contribute at the time of employment abroad is not acceptable. Since the proposed solution derogates from the provisions of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, there is also a possibility for countries to act against Slovenia in order to establish that the Republic of Slovenia is working on a distinction between its citizens. Finally, it did not ensure that the Republic of Slovenia would receive a higher remuneration from these countries. In our group, we also drew attention to the meager unemployment benefits that we have not been able to raise from Zujf in spite of good economic indicators, the discrimination between the lowest and highest unemployment benefits, the broken relationship with net social transfers, which are not based on paid contributions, and the impact of low pension benefits in the future. Following all of these concerns, we have overwhelmingly supported the proposal by the amendment for a general increase in remuneration or minimum and maximum levels for all citizens and citizens, irrespective of the location of their previous employment. On the other hand, in the Desus Group, we are also aware of the unenviable situation of at least 25,000 daily migrants who, due to their employment in another country, are subject to the payment of generally higher social contributions than they would have paid at home, and have virtually nothing to do with this. The vote of Members of the Desus Group will thus follow the decision on their own conscience, and this time it will not be uniform. From this place, however, we call on the competent ministry and the Government to prepare and send an appropriate additional amendment to the legislative procedure as soon as possible to ensure that the unemployed are provided with decent survival, which must also be based on the level of contributions paid. We are aware that the latter are quite low in this area, and therefore, according to our assessment, there is a need for thorough reflection and conversion in the field of legislation governing social contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	Have a good day to all present! A novel of the Labour Market Regulation Act was prepared in the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia. In doing so, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were invited to contact the administrative unit and to support it by signing. We are pleased that more than enough signatures of support have been gathered. Anyone can be found on the path of unemployment from day to day, so he needs to be provided with social security. It is also fair to take into account their previous contribution to the possible occurrence of unemployment. It would be absurd to reject, modify or reduce the scope of social rights simply because it does not actually live in the country where it pays. The European Regulation also provides that the amount of unemployment compensation for a period of three or five months shall be reimbursed by the State of last employment. In addition, the current Slovenian laws limit the amount of this refund, which is not right. It is extremely worrying that, with one loss of cross-border employment, our country voluntarily renounces some 2 000 euros from abroad. And now each of you can count on how much damage our state budget has done in all these years since this moment. It is also unacceptable for a cross-border worker abroad to pay up to 20 times more than workers employed in Slovenia who are ultimately not entitled to a higher amount of compensation. In our neighbouring Austria, for example, this share is 3% on gross wages and in Slovenia only 0.2%. Does that seem fair to you? It does not seem to us in the Slovenian National Party. Our current laws in this area are strange, for the country is taking our money away from us and is easily giving it up for the harm of workers. Therefore, we need to eliminate the nonsense that restricts Slovenia from drawing financial resources from abroad. As we have seen, the previous government has completely ignored cross-border workers, and the current government has a keen hearing and at the same time the desire to regulate matters as is necessary. With the covida-19 epidemic, the whole problem has only grown, as many cross-border workers have lost their jobs overnight, so to speak, on the road or at the border. It is also good that the proposed amendments to the law will not add to the burden of the Slovenian budget. The current law, as the maximum possible amount of unemployment compensation, provides us with 892,50 euros. Following the adoption of the amendment to the Act, which has been recast by the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the unemployed, with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, who have been driven to another EU Member State, the European Economic Area or Switzerland for at least one week, are recognised as having a cash refund of up to EUR 1 000. The favourable positive effects in this area will be the economy, as double increases in the level of unemployment compensation in the recipients will result in higher consumption, purchases. In the Slovenian National Party, we are well aware that failure to comply with the bill would result in a rapid increase in the migration of individuals from Slovenian families beyond our borders. The latter would not suit us if we looked from an economic, economic and financial point of view. We have no reservations in the Slovenian National Party to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A nice greeting to the guests from the Ministry and the proposer is said to be a representative of migrant workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act were made by migrant workers travelling to work in other members of the European Union with 5 000 658 signatures. The legislation currently in force is equivalent to that of migrant workers with employees in the Republic of Slovenia, although the payment of unemployment compensation contributions has not been equivalent, contrary to the 13th preambular point of the EC Regulation, number 883/2004, the European Parliament and the Council of 29 4. 2004 on the coordination of social security systems, which deals with the guaranteed equal treatment of persons under different national legislation moving on the EU labour market, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation. The proposal follows the European legal order and is also supported by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, as migrant workers point out in their argument for a proposal to amend the law, they also pay higher social security and unemployment insurance contributions to another Member of the European Union. Our citizens have decided to work in neighbouring countries for various reasons. Some because they failed to find suitable employment in Slovenia and others because they wanted a better or better quality of life for their family. The number of those who actually choose to work in another Member of the European Union has been increasing gradually since 2015. There were 14,000 at the time, we're talking about over 20,000 in Austria alone. However, since there are also terminations of employment contracts there, of course we have to think about them. Since we all hope that they will like to return to the homeland of Slovenia, because it is mostly the bearers of young families, we support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Their consumption in Slovenia also has a positive impact on the state budget. When they lose their jobs in another member of the European Union, they become unemployed persons and are registered unemployed and active job seekers in the country of residence, i.e. Slovenia. Here they receive unemployment compensation under the same criteria and conditions as workers who were employed in Slovenia, i.e. with a limit. The unemployment allowance in the Republic of Slovenia is limited to 892,50 euros. The amendments are based on the fact that the Member State of the European Union where they were employed would fully refund the remuneration received by the Slovenian State for unemployment benefits. Any such refund shall, however, be effected by delay. The proposal for a law follows the objective of a more favourable and fairer social security system for migrant workers by fixing an exception to the maximum amount of unemployment compensation for migrant workers who would benefit from a higher compensation in the country of last employment in accordance with the unemployment contributions paid under this Title. The exemption from the maximum amount of unemployment compensation in force in the Republic of Slovenia would be taken into account for the first three months of payment of the compensation for which the country of the last migrant worker’s employment, which is a member of the European Union, repays to the Republic of Slovenia the full amount of compensation and charges paid by the Republic of Slovenia to its unemployed citizen, the so-called former migrant worker, or for the first five months of receiving the cash refund, provided that the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of insurance periods in another EU Member State, EEA or Swiss Confederation in the last 24 months, and has the right to payment of unemployment compensation in accordance with the Labour Market Regulation Act for six months or more. For a period of up to five months, the former migrant worker shall be paid a cash refund in the amount of EUR 785 per year in another EU Member State, EEA or Swiss Confederation. As we support working people in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we also have a social sense for those who lose their jobs, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. A respected choir! The proposed amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, group of 5 thousand voters, proposes to amend the current regulation in force concerning the limitation of the amount of cash paid for unemployment. The proposal to amend the law seeks to provide a more favourable and fairer system of social protection for migrant workers in the event of unemployment, since, according to their assessment, the current legislation in force in this area violates their rights in the amount of unemployment compensation they have obtained from work abroad. Representatives of workers who are employed in another country, who live in Slovenia, estimate that migrant workers are entitled to higher unemployment benefits, as they pay 20 times more than workers who are employed in Slovenia from their personal unemployment insurance income. They are therefore proposing an amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which would provide for an exception to the statutory maximum amounts of monetary compensation in the case of unemployment for migrant workers. The amendment of the law would allow them to receive monetary compensation for unemployment in the amount to which they were entitled in the country of their last employment, and in this case the maximum amount of unemployment compensation for migrant workers, up to EUR 785, has also been adopted on the home body. Ladies and gentlemen, at the second reading of the amendment, we have pointed out that the current limit on the maximum amount of unemployment compensation comes from Zuif and has eventually become permanent. According to our assessment, on the basis of the proposed amendment of the law, a more thorough analysis and reflection on the regulation of the system of financial compensation for unemployment so far should be carried out. In particular, it should be borne in mind the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that the proposed amendment deviates from the European Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems in essential elements. For the European Regulation provides that a migrant worker shall receive a financial refund in accordance with the rules of the Member State where he is resident and not in accordance with the rules of the country where he was last employed. Again, we note that by adopting this proposal, we will create a new inequality between migrant workers and workers employed in the Republic of Slovenia. As we have pointed out for the first time, among the 800,000 employees in Slovenia, there are also a number of workers who receive a higher salary than 892,50 euros and who also pay higher unemployment insurance contributions over the years, but who are only entitled to the highest amount of unemployment compensation, which is slightly less than 900 euros when they lose their jobs. Even this time, social democrats will not oppose the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As has already been the case at the third reading of the Law on Labour Market Regulation, which has been introduced into the legislative process by the Trade Union of Migrant Workers with signatures of more than 5,000 citizens and citizens, we draw attention to the correlation between the level of compensation received by the unemployed person in Slovenia, the structure of this work in Slovenia and unemployment in particular in places where better or even the only job opportunity is offered by neighbouring countries. This interdependence is reflected in the proposal for a shelter that we are considering today. We are all aware that the loss of employment during the epidemic has affected many countries. Slovenia and our neighbouring countries, which offer employment to some Slovenian citizens, have not spared the epidemic. At the meeting of the parental committee, the applicant pointed out that the problem of unemployment compensation occurred just when the epidemic occurred, when a larger number of cross-border workers, in particular those employed in Austria, were unemployed. They received unemployment compensation at an amount which complies with the applicable Labour Market Regulation Act setting out the maximum possible amount of 892,50 euros gross, and does not follow the European Union rules on the transfer of rights from the country of last employment. The text that we are considering today has raised this amount for beneficiaries to a maximum of EUR 1 000 785 gross. Nevertheless, we reiterate the legislative and legal service's warning that the proposed solution would derogate from the provisions of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, since a particular group of unemployed persons, namely those who were cross-border migrant workers before unemployment, would be subject to a different regime with regard to the maximum amount of payment of cash compensation because in the country of last employment, according to paid unemployment contributions, they would have a higher monetary compensation. It also drew attention to a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2013, in which the Constitutional Court finds that cross-border labour migrants are, under the Income Act, the established principle of taxation of the world income of residents of the Republic of Slovenia and taking into account the method of limited deduction for the elimination of double taxation in substantially the same situations as other taxpayers for the payment of income. Only a different working situation of cross-border labour migrants in the case at hand did not provide a reasonable reason for the nature of the matter to justify the different regulation of their situation. In addition, the other Member State of the European Union has the possibility of introducing certain procedures against Slovenia if it finds that Slovenia has a difference between its nationals on the subject. We do not oppose the improvement of the material and social situation of individuals affected by the new amendment in the Group of the Modern Centre. We note, however, that there is a high likelihood that such an intervention in law would create a different treatment of substantially equal positions. On the basis of these arguments, we will not oppose the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 30. 3. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments to the safety and security legislation in railway transport within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the essential amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act. The existing law, which constitutes a basic act for ensuring railway safety, was adopted as a whole in 2018. The proposal for amendments and additions shall cover minor necessary amendments to the law due to changes in the field of railway safety established after 2018. During this period, Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/779 laying down detailed provisions on the certification system for vehicle maintenance entities, which provides for the extension of the tasks of rolling stock maintenance entities to all railway vehicles, has so far only been covered by freight wagons. In 2019, the EU Railway Agency supervised the work of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and proposed some minor improvements with a view to clarifying the procedures and records to be defined in the Railway Safety Act. In particular, it is the content and maintenance of the register of training, verification and evaluation centres, which is directly linked to the training of drivers. An important addition to the law relates to the possibility of placing non-railway infrastructure facilities, mainly for cycling routes, service roads and accessible routes in the lane. This is an exceptionally permissible intervention in places where a different location in the space is not possible due to geographical and other obstacles in the space, and all conditions for the safe development of both rail and road transport must be ensured. Last but not least, the proposal for amendments includes a number of editorial corrections, with a view to aligning the terms with the Inspection Control Act. Five amendments were tabled on the proposal. The text, including the proposed amendments, was considered at the meeting of the DZ Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space on 9 March, which was adopted without comment. On the basis of the first and third indents of the first subparagraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, it is proposed that the law be adopted after the shortening of the procedure, as it is less difficult to amend and supplement the existing Law on Rail Safety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Summary of the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, explained that the proposal for amendments and additions covers minor necessary amendments to the law resulting from changes in the field of railway safety from 2018 to today. At that time, the Commission Implementing Regulation laying down detailed provisions on the certification system was adopted for the entities responsible for the maintenance of vehicles, which provides that the tasks of entities are to be extended to all railway vehicles. The EU Railway Agency, which carried out the supervisory work of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in 2019, proposed some minor improvements in order to specify the procedure and records to be specified in the Railway Safety Act. In particular, it is the content and maintenance of the register of training centres, verifications, assessors, which is directly linked to the training of drivers. An important addition to the law relates to the possibility of placing non-railway infrastructure facilities, mainly for cycling routes, service roads and accessible routes in the lane. This is an exceptionally permissible intervention in places where a different direction to space is not possible due to geographical and other obstacles in the space, and all conditions for the safe operation of both rail and road transport must be ensured. The representative of the Irena Rus Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up a written opinion on the draft law and had made some comments which were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Councillor Bojan Režun, stressed that the Commission supports the legal solutions presented and particularly welcomes the possibility of building railway infrastructure along the track. The proposed solution allows for faster improvement of important infrastructure towards the expansion of cycling and walking infrastructure with the aim of strengthening sustainable mobility. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 13, 15, 21, 23 and 25 of the SDS, SMC and Nova Slovenija, which, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, everyone has a good day! Last year, the European Railway Safety Agency, as part of its supervision of the work of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, identified certain shortcomings in the transposition of the fourth rail package. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, specifying the implementation of certain procedures at the Public Railway Agency, addresses these shortcomings. In this way, the content and the manner in which the register of training centres, inspection centres and assessors is maintained and the procedure for verifying and granting applicable driving licences shall be specified. It shall also comply with the implementing Regulation of the Commission of the European Union of 16. 5. 2019, which provides for the extension of the tasks of rolling stock maintenance entities from freight wagons to all vehicles. An additional obligation to report to the safety authority operator and the competent inspectorate in the event of incidents is new, as possible recurrent incidents may endanger rail safety. In Novi Slovenija, we are particularly pleased that the law also brings some solutions to the current problems of putting non-rail infrastructure in the space along the lane due to either spatial distress or other geographical obstacles. This is where cycling routes are first placed. The bill certainly expands the range of non-railway facilities which can be built exceptionally from now on in the lane, and the investor will have to obtain the consent and conditions of the public railway infrastructure manager in order to ensure railway safety. In the case of facilities that could endanger traffic safety, the impact of such facilities on road safety will also need to be verified. The proposed legal solutions are therefore still important for the development of cycling infrastructure, which cannot be limited spatially in particular by reason of geographical data and limitations. Such solutions have been particularly supported by municipalities that have been quite unsuccessful in placing bicycle lanes along rail infrastructure. With a view to facilitating accommodation, it is proposed to reduce the minimum distance allowed between the extreme track axis and the nearest point of the road, which may be less than six metres or eight metres outside the settlement, and to obtain prior consent from the public infrastructure manager. In Novi Slovenija we support legal solutions mainly from the point of view of the development opportunities of municipalities, as they enable the construction of non-railway infrastructure along the lane. Since the proposed solutions in the law allow for faster reform of transport infrastructure towards the expansion of cycling and walking infrastructure with the aim of sustainable mobility, Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act addresses certain shortcomings in legislation identified by the European Railway Safety Agency in the framework of the supervision of the work of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the content and the manner in which the registers of training centres, inspection centres and assessors are maintained and the procedure for verifying and granting applicable driving licences are determined more precisely. The law is coordinated with the Commission Regulation, which provides that certain maintenance entities must also be for other vehicles and not only for freight wagons. The bill also contains a solution that expands the range of non-rail infrastructure, which will be exceptionally possible to build in the lane from now on. Such interventions will be exceptionally permissible and the investor will have to obtain prior agreement and conditions of the public railway infrastructure manager. Such a change is necessary, as otherwise some facilities could not be accommodated. As is clear from the proposed solutions, security will be taken care of. The investor and the operator will be forced to obtain a traffic safety verification report from the road safety assessor before such an intervention. Such solutions were also supported by some Slovenian municipalities, which faced spatial and geographical constraints mainly in the placement of bicycle sections. In addition, the minimum permitted distance between the axis of the extreme track and the nearest point of the road in the village from 8 meters to 6 meters shall be reduced. It is pointed out that this is an exception which will also require prior agreement from the public railway infrastructure manager. Such a solution pursues the objective of facilitating accommodation, which we welcome in the SAB, while at the same time reminding us that safety must take precedence over such interventions and that the safety of road users must be provided to the maximum extent possible. In the SAB, we are aware that railways are an important part of the transport system, and we support the development of railway infrastructure all the time, as we have clearly demonstrated in the past. We launched one of the most important projects from a dead point, this is the second track project. We are aware that in Slovenia the development of railways is far behind, but for us safety is always first. That is why we will continue to pursue the development and progress of the modernisation of railways and railway infrastructure in the future, but, of course, taking strict account of all safety standards. We will not oppose the proposed solutions in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The existing Railway Safety Act, which constitutes a basic act for ensuring railway safety, was adopted as a completely new law in 2018. However, the proposal for a bill on the table contains changes and additions, which do not mostly introduce new solutions, but improve some of the existing ones. The novel provides for only one completely new solution concerning exceptions to the placement of non-railway infrastructure facilities in the public rail infrastructure lane, by requiring special conditions to be met by the investor and the operator of these railway facilities. The proposal for a novelty covers minor urgent amendments to the law as a result of the changes that have taken place in the field of rail safety in 2018 and to date. Let me remind you that during this time, the Commission Implementing Regulation laying down detailed provisions on the certification system has been adopted for the entities responsible for the maintenance of vehicles, which provides for the extension of the tasks of entities to all railway vehicles, before which only freight wagons have been covered. In 2019, the EU Railway Agency supervised the work of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. It has proposed some minor improvements with a view to clarifying the procedures and records to be defined in the Railway Safety Act. The proposals for improvements focused mainly on the content and maintenance of the register of training centres, verifications and assessors, which is directly linked to the training of drivers. An important addition to the law relates to the possibility of placing non-railway infrastructure facilities, mainly for cycling routes, service roads and accessible routes in the lane. This is an exceptionally permissible intervention in places where a different location in the space is not possible due to geographical and other obstacles in the space, and all conditions for the safe development of both rail and road transport must be ensured. Last but not least, the proposal for amendments includes a number of editorial corrections, with a view to aligning the terms with the Inspection Control Act. In the view of the Desus Group, the proposal for a novel is primarily intended to improve the area of security, as well as important development opportunities related to the construction of railway infrastructure along the lane. In our opinion, the adoption of the novelty will also allow for faster reform of transport infrastructure towards the expansion of cycling and walking infrastructure. In the Desus Group, we support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Good-bye, everybody! Safety in rail transport is of the utmost importance today, and it should be even more important in the future if we are to get as many citizens and citizens on public passenger transport as possible, including train rides. The laws of the European Union also provide that the driver must have a driver's license with him all the time, and also a certificate or certified copy of the certificate. We have less difficult amendments and additions ahead of us and compliance with the Inspection Control Act and the changes required under the supervision of the European Union Railway Agency over the Public Railway Agency. This also takes into account the principle of compliance of internal legislation with European Union legislation, where the findings of the European Commission's official reminder are removed due to the incorrect transposition of certain provisions. An important novelty is to identify the entity for the maintenance of the rolling stock, which is also the responsibility of the vehicle owner, as well as the registration of the entity in the vehicle register. In this way, vehicles must have a designated maintenance entity from 16 July 2020 onwards. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems relevant to add an obligation to the security authority to also report on incidents in rail transport. In doing so, we absolutely agree that operators and carriers must immediately inform the railway traffic inspectorate and the security authority of the accidents and incidents. The latter, in general, was not much of a pink epidemiological situation at present, since some individuals commit suicide and jump under a train, others, especially young people, are careless, as they headlessly do selfies on the railway tracks. Some on foot or by bicycle cross illegal train crossings. There are also many cases where drivers are in a hurry to ignore traffic signals and drive past downhill ramps and similar things. There is only one new solution, where a range of objects can be built exceptionally in the lane. In doing so, it is very important to take account of the safety of bikers and other road users and to ensure safety measures by setting up a safety net. It is precisely for the safety of all road users that an additional condition is also laid down for an intervention in the lane, where the investor and the road operator must obtain an earlier traffic safety verification report issued by the road safety assessor. It will also be possible to establish a building right on public railway infrastructure, which will contribute to facilitating the placement of facilities in space. This will make it easier and faster for municipalities to follow their development needs, renewals and reconstructions of existing facilities. We are not most inclined to reduce the minimum permitted distance between the axis of the extreme track and the nearest point of the road in the village from eight to six metres, otherwise with the prior agreement of the infrastructure manager. It is true that we already have a lot of spatial and geographical limitations, but the driver has a bad feeling if he is driving on a narrow road near the railway. According to the original proposal, the evaluators' register included, in addition to other data, the e-mail address and the telephone number of the evaluator, which was somewhat controversial, as the OPS of the National Assembly also pointed out. The coalition has properly corrected this with an amendment. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems to us that an anti-group fence is included among the components of the public railway infrastructure, where the railway route across cities or settlements is carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act should be considered following a reduced procedure, as it concerns less complex amendments and additions to the law to comply with Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/779 of 16 May 2019 laying down detailed provisions on the certification system for operators in charge of maintenance of vehicles, in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing the Regulation of the Commission, which provides for the extension of the tasks of railway vehicle maintenance entities to all vehicles and not only freight wagons as it has been so far. The main objective of the bill is to define in more detail certain procedures relating to driving licences, certification of maintenance entities and the management of the register of training centres, inspection centres and assessors carried out by the security authority. In line with the findings of the European Railway Agency in its supervision of our Railway Agency, it was found that certain procedures carried out by the AŽP should be more precisely prescribed. The proposal for a law specifies more precisely the tasks of monitoring compliance with the conditions for entities to be implemented by the body responsible for them under the certification procedure. The proposed amendment to the test procedure for rolling stock shall specify the procedure led by the AŽP. These changes are necessary for the implementation of further procedures and are welcomed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The following area is the placement of non-rail infrastructure in a space which can exceptionally be placed in the lane. In our view, the proposed change solves the greater problem of putting into space in geographically or spatially limited conditions. In placing non-railway infrastructure facilities in the space, there are problems in areas where it is not possible to install objects without interference in the zone of the runway due to spatial distress and geographical constraints. In order to address this problem, it is necessary to lay down the conditions for ensuring the prescribed safety in rail and road transport for such installations which may be carried out exceptionally. The proposed law provides for an exception to the possible placement of non-railway infrastructure along the lane to address investor issues in areas with spatial and geographical constraints. In order to ensure safety in rail and road transport, a possible exemption will exceptionally be granted in order to meet the safety conditions of rail and road transport, with specific conditions to be agreed upon by the investor and the operator of these facilities, namely the railway infrastructure. So far, there have been problems putting such infrastructure in the lane. The new law finally brings solutions to place important sustainable mobile projects in this area. We are pleased that the proposal of the law brings some solutions to the current problems of the placement of non-rail infrastructure, such as cycling and recreational routes, parking lots, roads and so on, into the space along the lane. The municipalities have long sought such solutions, but they have not been heard. As this government has listened to them so far. The proposed solutions to this law, in order to facilitate the placement of infrastructure projects in the search area, in particular with regard to the development of sustainable mobility, also allow for faster innovation or the renovation of transport infrastructure. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act will also benefit the local communities of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in full and gladly support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! We probably all remember the derailment of the freight train between Kopro and Ljubljana when there was a leak of kerosene from one of the freight wagons. In order to avoid future developments of this kind, today's novelty addresses areas aimed at achieving a high level of safety in rail transport, according to the LMŠ Group. It is the duty of the proposers of the sectoral legislation to make the rules clear and feasible and to follow modern guidelines and regulations to ensure interoperability with the safety systems of railway networks in the rest of the European Union. As a result, the proposed amendment of the law implements the European Regulation establishing a system for issuing certificates to entities in charge of the maintenance of railway vehicles. In accordance with the legislation in force, the latter shall be issued only to entities maintaining freight wagons and, by implementing the regulation in question, shall extend this obligation to all entities irrespective of the type of railway vehicle maintained. A safety management system approved by the infrastructure manager and an integral part of the safety certificate is also established, thus proving that the activity of the carrier follows all the requirements for ensuring the safety of transport on the railway network. The proposed amendment to the law introduces an additional requirement, namely that the transport operator submit any changes to the approved safety management system for review and approval to the safety authority, namely the Public Railway Agency. In the third part, the proposed novelty extends the range of allowed interventions within the track belt to the construction of public and non-categories roads, cycling links, service transport areas and service access routes to the railway line. On the basis of the proposed amendment, which will allow for the construction of cycling links within lanes, taking into account all the safety regulations of the competent national institutions, the local communities and the country will be better able to develop sustainable transport strategies, which are one of the key measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will support the proposed amendment in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a fellow Member! A short time ago, the supervision of the work of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia carried out by the European Agency found that certain procedures carried out by that Agency should be more precisely prescribed. It is necessary to define in more detail the content and manner of keeping the register of training centres, inspection centres and assessors, as well as the procedure for verifying and granting applicable driving licences.This finding is the main reason why the Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rail Safety and the content of the law is also coordinated with the Commission's implementing regulation. The Ministry shall specify, as the main objective, the details of certain procedures relating to driving licences, the certification of entities responsible for maintaining and maintaining the register of training centres, inspection centres and assessors carried out by the security authority in accordance with the findings of the ERA in the control of the Agency referred to above. As part of this proposal, we welcome the solution that there will be a possible exception to the possible placement of non-railway infrastructure in the lane to address investor issues in areas with spatial and geographical constraints. In Slovenia we have a lot of areas where it is very difficult to put different forms of infrastructure into space and from roads to cycling and walking paths. The proposed solutions will expand the range of non-railway facilities that can be built exceptionally in the track belt from now on, which means that the development of cycling and walking paths will be significantly accelerated. Last but not least, congregations that had previously had difficulty settling in the area have taken hold of such a solution for a long time. That is why the Social Democrats will also support the marriage proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Your Honor! Today, we decide on amendments to the Railway Safety Act, which regulates the placement of non-rail infrastructure facilities and details the tasks of monitoring the fulfilment of the conditions of certified entities and training centres of assessors. The proposed solutions translate into practice less complex changes and additions, which are inter alia consistent with the European Commission's Implementing Regulation. The Regulation lays down clearer rules on the functioning of the vehicle maintenance system of entities. We support the proposed amendments to the Railway Safety Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We believe that all these changes will contribute to the safety of public transport. On the other hand, they optimise the possibility of exploiting existing infrastructure potentials. We therefore support the harmonisation of the existing law with the regulation of the European Union Commission, which brings to our system clearer provisions on certification, management and control of rail system operation. We believe it is crucial that we follow the latest security trends and guidelines on such important issues as the issue of rail safety. In the future, we will strive to eliminate the critical points in rail transport as the safe implementation of public transport is of paramount importance for the country. In the legal solutions related to the construction of railway infrastructure along the track lane, we see a large developmental opportunity in particular, allowing for the expansion of cycling and walking infrastructure and thereby strengthening the principle of sustainable mobility. At the same time, the issue of infrastructure development in areas with spatial and geographical constraints, which are not lacking in Slovenia due to the pervasive landscape, is being addressed. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that Slovenia must, in accordance with all the safety recommendations, give every opportunity to optimize its infrastructure. We also believe that infrastructure projects in the form of walking paths and cycling routes are of paramount importance, an important part of Slovenian cities, as confirmed by many projects already implemented in accordance with the concept of sustainable mobility. On the basis of these facts, we will be happy to support the amendment of the Railway Safety Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	Respected and respected, thank you. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act brings solutions that align the existing law with the EU regulation and the Inspection Control Act. Thus, the amendment provides for more detailed provisions in relation to the register of rolling stock, certification of entities responsible for maintaining and maintaining the register, training centres, verification centres and assessors. The changes ahead also follow some of the findings of the EU Railway Agency, which it has made in overseeing the work of the Public Railway Agency. The findings related to the already mentioned maintenance of the Register of Training and Verification Centres and to the process of verifying and granting applicable driving licences. The EU Regulation provides that rolling stock must have a designated maintenance entity, which has so far been designated only for freight wagons, the choice of maintenance workers is the responsibility of the vehicle owner, which must also take care of its registration in the vehicle register. The amendment of the law also entails an expansion of a range of non-railway objects, which can exceptionally be built in the lane. This is an exception to permissible intervention under defined conditions. This solves the current problems in most cases, particularly in cases of narrow valleys, where there is often very little space and facilities, in this case it is mainly roads, it is not possible to place them without reaching the area of the lane. There are also some spatial solutions from the past at the time of geographical considerations. The law thus introduces an exception when it prescribes a minimum safety distance of six meters inside and eight meters outside the village. This preserves and ensures safety both in rail and road transport. The distance between the line and a public or non-tegregated road should allow for the safe installation of all installations which are necessary both in rail and road transport. The provisions are therefore of particular importance in the cases of connecting roads built as substitutes for the closure of unsecured level crossings, service access routes, roads to the railway and cycling links. From now on, the investor and the road manager will have to obtain a report on the verification of traffic safety in advance in the planning of operations and then the project conditions and the agreement of the public railway infrastructure manager. We do not oppose changes in the law in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. OF THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE DETERMINED TO THE ACT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE OBJECTARY PARALLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE FINDING OF THE REAL STATE AND THE MORITICAL POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CARRIAGERS OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURES RELATED TO THE CIVID-19 EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT AND THE IMPLIMINATION OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS, FOR THE PERIOD OF 13. MARCH 2020 until the date of the determination of the extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation and the possible amendment of the applicable legislation governing State action in the event of an epidemic of contagious diseases with its consequences. The proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation was submitted to the assembly by an investigative committee. I give the text to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Robert Pavšić, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	Dear and respectable, good afternoon! Before the current exacerbation of the measures we are witnessing against the epidemic, both government policy and profession have recognised experimentation during or too late action before the second wave. We all bear the consequences now. Finally, we received recognition from all who suspected that everything was not going as it was supposed to, but two words were crucial — too late and experimentation. It is therefore of utmost importance to explore the past, not only for the purpose of identifying and taking responsibility, but above all for the purpose of not repeating such a concerted action. Two parliamentary investigations are currently under way in the National Assembly to identify political responsibilities on measures to control the epidemic in Slovenia, the Commission of Inquiry to determine the actual situation and the possible political responsibilities of public function holders in the implementation of the measures and the parliamentary investigation focusing on purchases of protective and medical equipment. The last one gets an epilogue. The Court of Auditors has issued a report which can be an effective basis for the speedy work of the Commission of Inquiry. However, in controlling the epidemic, the subject of the study needs to be broadened as the government’s management of the epidemic is far from complete. Thus, in just a few months, we have been monitoring various affairs that give rise to legitimate concerns. All we can remember is the purchase of quick tests, the purchase of vaccines, or the selection of a distributor of vaccines. Everything that has led to public doubts needs to be investigated, which is currently impossible within this Commission. The Commission of Inquiry is currently limited to the 27 October 2020 cut-off date, with a whole range of measures still changing after that date, being applied and implemented. However, suspicions or concerns, in accordance with the purpose and subject matter of the parliamentary inquiry, remain the same or are even more intensively materialised. In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, we have unanimously decided at the meeting of the Commission to propose to the Assembly that a specific parliamentary inquiry be completed, which is why the applicant is also requested. Why is it necessary to expand? So far, there is no comprehensive expert analysis of the situation and there is no analysis of the state of management of the epidemic in Slovenia. While the Commission is aware of the statistical models of COVID-19 of the tracker, the findings of the Institute of Joseph Stefan and the expert article of IBMI, i.e. the Institute of Biostatics and Medical Informatics, entitled From a Story of Success to Disaster: What can we learn from this, but in all cases it is a mathematical statistical analysis that requires an objective explanation of all the circumstances of the measures in terms of potential political responsibility, an epidemiological insight with direct consequences remains. We have therefore adopted a decision on the Commission to appoint an expert in medicine and the field of epidemiology. Given that the development of both the covida-19 epidemic and the management of all aspects of the epidemic continues beyond 27 October 2020, it is necessary to create as comprehensive an analysis as possible a time-bound extension of the investigation, which will also cover action after that date. The Commission of Inquiry has so far collected more documentation, which I am still examining and through which a number of issues have been raised. This is expressed throughout the whole investigation period and is continued again through the adopted cut-off date. This is a matter of various indications and suspicions that need to be investigated in the light of the political management of professional issues. In order for the Commission of Inquiry to fully implement the substantive scope of the investigation, which is also the evaluation of the measures taken and implemented in particular in terms of their adequacy and effectiveness, it is necessary to define a longer timeframe, particularly due to the continuity between the time frame already adopted and the continuation of the epidemiological situation in Slovenia. This is a direct link between measures and the consequences of measures where the appropriateness of the use of public funds and other consequences of measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic need to be addressed more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Dear President, your honors are here! The purpose of the opposition parliamentary investigation is to clarify and clarify all facts and circumstances and to identify the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified rights limitation in the implementation of measures related to the covid-19 infectious disease epidemic. The Commission of Inquiry proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to extend the scope within the time-limit of the investigation, as government management of the epidemic is far from complete. The epidemic is also still declared an area of the whole country at least until 18 April 2021. The Commission of Inquiry is currently limited to the 27 October 2020 cut-off date, with a large number of measures still changing after that date, being applied and implemented. The suspicions or concerns in accordance with the purpose and subject matter of the parliamentary investigation remain the same. In the parliamentary group, we support an act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation. We believe that the Commission of Inquiry could fully implement the scope of the substantive investigation, where the evaluation of the measures taken and implemented is also among the primary investigative tasks. In particular, in terms of their adequacy and effectiveness, it is necessary to define a longer timeframe primarily due to the continuity between the time frame already adopted and the continuation of the epidemiological situation in Slovenia. This is a direct link between measures and the consequences of measures where the appropriateness of the use of public funds and other consequences of measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic need to be addressed more precisely. I have also repeatedly pointed out that the coalition has abused the epidemic at the expense of which certain individuals have unsupervisedly spent public funds and, as I have already said in the past, it is necessary to save money in times of crisis, not to spend taxpayers' money. It is therefore necessary to extend the scope of the investigative commission, where all aspects of the purchase of protective equipment by the current government will be explored. In the Member States, we are in favour of bringing offenders to justice in the event of the infringements found. We will not get the money we have saved back; now we can only determine whether the funds have been spent transparently and economically. It is only necessary to get to the bottom of things and to let individuals answer for their actions if violations are detected. For the money of taxpayers must be dealt with transparently, effectively, carefully and in the spirit of a good master at all times. As I have already said, in the SAB Group, we will support an act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! “This situation was waiting for us relatively unprepared.” Thus, at the start of the violent second wave of the epidemic last fall, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Tina Bregant, confirmed in a single short sentence what we had been warning the opposition all along. At about the same time, the official official, I emphasise, the government spokesman Jelko Kacin said on national television that some have hibernated over the summer, so some have failed to perform the tasks entrusted to them. However, these words passed relatively peacefully, although, of course, all the alarms should ring in the Government responsible for dealing with the epidemic. They didn't. That is why the work of this commission of inquiry is so important – that this commission will find the political responsibility of the officials of this government for the ineffective fight against the epidemic. Because this government in itself does not take responsibility for anything. Experience so far has shown that a number of measures, such as closure of regions and municipalities, closure of trades, schools, curfews, have not yielded results. It was more or less a political calculation, and above all, it was a search for the culprits for failures. Mostly with people. This government has thus been deepening the uncertainty and fear of the citizens throughout the epidemic, even because the covida-19 pandemic has no good solutions, and it is difficult to say that it has them now. Many epidemiological statistics confirm that we have so far been among the world's worst countries in the fight against the covida-19 pandemic, despite the exceptional sacrifice of health and other personnel. This situation is no wonder, since all important decisions were taken earlier than the President of the Government, often beyond the opinions of the former Minister of Health and the profession itself. This was the situation in the second wave of the epidemic, which has now become the third wave. The investigation ahead of us is still important to find out why the policy in the fight against the Coronavirus did not take the epidemiological profession into account. Why is the health system not properly prepared for the second wave? Why has everything been used so far to fight the epidemic and mitigate the consequences, and could it really not be used more purposefully, more carefully? Why does the guarantee and liquidity scheme not work for the economy? How and why were the proposals of the social partners not duly taken into account when we are witnessing the breakdown of social dialogue? Who was helped, and why is it not? Why were the scenarios of individual stages of the fight against the virus not coordinated and adopted overnight? It's obvious today. And it is obvious that in the second wave of this epidemic, the government of Janez Janša failed to fight the coronavirus. There are more and more questions, much more than publicly available answers. That is why the parliamentary investigation is even more urgent and how necessary it is to extend it time and content. We entered the third wave of the epidemic and the second wave is not finished. However, questions remain on the transition from the second to the third wave, such as questions relating to rapid testing, questionable quality tests, testing. Is it important to believe in the government’s expert opinion that rapid testing has led to an epidemic? When were rapid antigen tests available in Slovenia? Why did we not start using them until six months after they were practically available? Since last fall, there's been a mix-up about rapid tests. Therefore, the identification of political responsibility also. And that measure is full, it's even worse and much more fatal with vaccination. The very beginning of the organization of vaccination, where people should apply, either to the state portal or to personal physicians. Finally, those who have applied extensively to the national portal may find that they are practically not registered for vaccination because in the meantime I do not know how many times the regime has changed, that what we knew at the beginning will be the most meaningful — that people apply to their personal physician for vaccination. We are four times, or this government has changed only the vaccination strategy so far, probably not the last time, and of course this investigative commission will also have to identify political responsibility regarding the issue of what happened with the procurement of vaccines. Did Slovenia really lose almost a million doses of vaccines because of the negligence of those responsible? Whether this is because of negligence or because of calculus, we do not know, but it has happened that Slovenia has lost a million doses of these vaccines. Who's responsible for this? Political responsibility in this regard will certainly have to be sought. This commission of inquiry will identify this political responsibility and it is therefore important at this time, given the state of the epidemic, that we extend its work to both the substantive and temporal levels, as the apparent epidemic is far from over. The third wave is here. We can hope that all of us, together with this third wave, will be confronted more in an organised manner than the Government and the profession have faced with the second wave, especially because the opinions of the profession have been largely over-examined and it has been more or less to experiment with the government of Janez Janša in the fight against the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. A pleasant greeting to the few present! Your Honor! The Coronavirus epidemic is not beyond us at all, we are in the third wave, and unfortunately there is also no shortage of work for the parliamentary investigation commission, the determination of the actual situation and the possible political responsibility of the public function holders in the implementation of measures related to the covida-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences, due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of the rights and freedoms of citizens and citizens. Since the Commission is currently replaced by a cut-off date, this is October 27, 2020, its competence should be extended at the present time. Why? Because we know that, from 27 October last year, virtually every day, something new has emerged on the sidelines of public officials in the fight against the epidemic. The most famous is the confusion and contentious claims about the acquisition of vaccines, even at the time when Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša served as Minister of Health. Then there is the implementation of the vaccination strategy, the work or better-spoken work carried out by Janšev's Secretary of State, Mr Kacin. Then there are bizarre strangeities and confusions about resting B2Bs and other pranks with peach sandwiches on their foreheads. Above all, we must be concerned about the response of the Government and ministers to the deterioration of the social and economic picture. What is the actual situation in the labour market? What will happen to people's jobs and social situation? These are the real issues that we need to discuss with the daily information on closing down production, especially in the car cluster. And who's responsible. Who is responsible for all the confusion, mistakes and abuses that occur under the criticism of the epidemic by the authorities? We'll see about that, colleagues and colleagues, and we'll check it out on the committee. Why is it logical to extend the timescale of the investigation? Unfortunately, even during the third government, Ivan Janez Janša has reason to be concerned about the abuse of positions, the damage to public finances, the attack on independent institutions and the interference with rights and freedoms never runs out. Social Democrats will be eager to prevent and sanction these inappropriate and suspicious acts in the future, of course, to support the proposal in question to extend the parliamentary investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! The parliamentary inquiry into the possible political responsibility of public function holders for financially ineffective measures and the suspicion of human rights violations in the implementation of measures related to the covida-19 epidemic, which was launched by our National Assembly by the decision and the establishment of an investigative commission, is in full progress. Let us recall that the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is in particular to clarify and clarify all the facts and circumstances and also to assess the actual situation related to the preparation and implementation of measures to prevent this communicable disease. Any irregularities, non-professional and unconscionable work and any suspension of the duty of public function holders, which, or could lead to the reckless and ineffective use of public funds, are identified, in particular as a consequence of the far-reaching and persistent public finances, social and, in particular, health consequences for people in this country. Otherwise, the swift action of the Government, which was necessary because of the objective conditions of the epidemic, is not and cannot be an excuse for the reckless and reckless spending of public funds and the questionable consequences behind it. By appointing a parliamentary inquiry, the work of the Commission of Inquiry shall be limited to the period until 27 October 2020 and from the beginning on 13 March 2020. Given that both the development of the epidemic and the management of all aspects of it continue beyond 27 March 2020, it is necessary to create as comprehensive as possible an integrated analysis, a time-bound extension of our investigation, which will cover measures also after that date, that is 27 October. We know that after this date, there have been rapid tests, orders for supplies, distribution and access to vaccines, work of vaccination centers. Government control of the epidemic is far from over and the epidemic is still being declared a whole country. Moreover, measures taken in key government documents to manage and address the consequences of the epidemic before the 27th of October last year are still being implemented, complemented and upgraded. The public has recently also gained insight into the revision of the work on measures to prevent and extend covid by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which analysed the effectiveness of the acquisition of protective and medical equipment to control the spread of covid virus. The Court of Auditors’ report notes that, despite exceptional circumstances, the auditors, namely the Government, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Economy, the Defence Ministry and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves, were not effective in purchasing protective and medical equipment. Inefficient behaviours have been reflected for the period under review both in assessing the need for protective equipment and medical equipment and in procurement procedures. Examples of inefficiencies are specifically highlighted in the audit report. At the same time, the ineffective conduct, which, according to the Court of Auditors' warnings, is also formally disputed if we only monitor the reporting of the media on current measures to mitigate and address the consequences of the epidemic crisis, is apparently continuing unreservedly. We therefore agree in Levica with the proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary inquiry in the subject matter, purpose and scope of a specific parliamentary inquiry, and we will also support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Now, dear colleagues, colleagues, there are quite a few cancellations, so I'm going to count some of the following debaters. The first one's going to be dr. Franz Trček, then Nick Prebil, Vojko Starović, Jani Möderndorfer. The first one has the word Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a little strange that almost no one wants to discuss such an important subject. If, in two words, I could describe this government and its work in a good year, and also on the basis of Dr. Simoniti's “beautyful” interpretation, I could say: arrogant incompetence. Despising incompetence, that is, in two words, a description of the work and the image of this government. One book, which may be written about the 14th Slovenian government, already has the title: All our affairs. If I touch only these stories about the non-contamination of the vaccine by the head of the Minister of Health, Ivan Janez Janša. If you go to see the Penal Code, you have a 258, article that speaks of the bride’s work at work — up to three years in prison. If you pose a general threat to your job as a bride, Article 314 KZ — from five to eight years in prison. If you have had the balls to take my immunity from me, give it to yourself, those Members and Members of Parliament who support this and such a government, as well as the criminally responsible government, 114th Article of the Constitution. It's not like it's a week to not have an affair. Janez Janša says, yes, we're about a month behind inoculation. Wait, in Kočev they prepared for vaccination in December, our Mariborians too. In short, how late are you? December, January, February, March – four is not the same as one. Unless you have some new and different math and actual counting. Now we're going to lockdown, after a year. Yesterday, I was doing an analysis of people's comments on media portals and they're actually going crazy. I will not say that I do not agree with the profession, that it is probably necessary to lock down, but you know, also how it will work out – in particular, take care of the interests of the RCC leadership before the schooling. After a year, when this government, which has repeatedly violated the decrees, no one trusts, after revealing all the affairs, after revealing how many fellows have paid off some of the medical supplements – some amounts which the vast majority of citizens and citizens can't even show in fairy tales – still with the same incompetent, scurvy people in too important functions I'm afraid this lockdown will fail. Because if we have learned something in a year — not just us, not elsewhere — it is that dealing with the epidemic and preventing us from being pandemicized is successful, if politics is in a narrow sense a model for taking action, and if there is some mutual trust between citizens and citizens and those entrusted with a difficult political profession if you are serious about it. There are no bridges, there are no wormholes, there are no parallel universes. Here it is, as you would say in a saying in a saying that has a domicile in Serbia: “Yes to the road, to the woods,” or vice versa. As someone wrote, if we successfully face this third wave, of course, the government will earn all the credit, even though it is not entitled to it, but we will – who already? The descendants of the slaughterhouses, as a regular professor would say. So much for intellectuals in Slovenia. It is certainly necessary to extend the time with which we will be dealing on the committee or with colleagues. If this did not happen, the third branch of government, including that investigative work, were it not for the U.N.P.P.D. to be fully, the prosecutors and so on, would essentially be dealing with what is our primary task, but not – how many do we have now? – with six investigators in Parliament counting us 90. Which, once again, is a madhouse of its own and shows off the exploits of this arrogantly incompetent government, which, of course, has not chosen itself. It is also a political infantility of Slovenia, because politics is basically, you will not believe, it does not happen on Facebook or on Twitter. It seems to me that all full-year citizens and citizens must also be imagined here. As I said before, the Social Democrats will support this extension. On the other hand, I would most like none of these investigators to finish their work, since it would have been a preliminary election to rescue you, in our own words, for some of the dangers of death, of this defiant incompetence that we have been living for more than a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Vojko Starović, prepares Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. In my debate, I would also like to touch on the dimensions of this government's action during the covida-19 epidemic, after a really unnecessary increase in repression and the use of repressive measures. In yesterday's Sunday's Work, Dr. Dragan Petrovec, an expert at the Institute of Criminology, said in his interview that he and his colleagues had also investigated this increase in repression. This increase in repression, which is so typical of all the governments of Janša, which have appeared regularly in the last two decades. In doing so, it notes that repression is increasing to both its breadth and its depth. It is punished in all order, from taxi drivers to constitutional readers before parliament, croissants, passersby who do not demonstrate at all, children, after all, children and adolescents. This repression extends to all areas. It also attacks, say, environmental protection, our social well-being and attitudes towards the protection of nature and the environment. In front of us is the change of the Water Act, where the constitutionally protected right of citizens to clean water is attacked, to clean drinking water. This was directly attacked with the intention of allowing the construction of hazardous facilities in watertight areas. This does not endanger, let us be clear, it does not only endanger the nature, living beings, even humans. Let's look at Anho's and so on. But all the depth is shown by the increasing penalties, which are already so very high in our country. The police have almost instructions that they no longer warn, but punish. This repression is getting more and more visible. Petrovec says that these moves appear to be psychotic and that the supporters of this government show schizophrenicism. Occasionally, coalition parties of ruling coalitions, individuals succeed and say that the Government makes mistakes, that it has failed to agree, from almost all ministers, except NSIs, they have all found that, but then they change. Whether it's fear or not, then they change their mind. I think they're also under the influence of repression. I think that this proposal to extend the work of the commission of inquiry is appropriate to look at where, in fact, it leads us to such a way of dealing with repression that does not produce results. Just as the supporters of this government are waving at me – it is the best government, but it has the worst results. With the repression of the Slovenians, you don't raise your trust. You only raise your trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	Nice hello to you all! One of the main tasks of the Commission of Inquiry is to propose to the National Assembly a proposal for an extension when it comes to new knowledge. This makes it possible to do a really good job. Some are convinced that what you set out at the outset should then be in charge and that this is the only way to function. We see this already in some other investigative committees where, as a fence drunker, they stick to, say, dates and simply do not allow interference over fences. Especially when they see that they can't actually work on an investigative committee and they don't even propose extending the work of the commission itself. Some even feel that the Commission of Inquiry is not actually going to discover anything or that it is a waste of time, that it actually makes no sense and that it leads to a dead end. On such a question, I always wonder why those who are such critics of such extensions or of such a way of working are leading the investigative commissions themselves. Why do they even do it if they don't actually believe it? One of the possible answers is always on the palm of your hand, which is to prevent the other from finding something. We have already seen this on the famous investigative committee led by this government or coalition, which in fact deals with a very similar topic, such as that of this investigative commission. Of course, this is a question that the Commission of Inquiry is increasingly and increasingly facing, because in fact the problem it has begun to deal with has not yet ended. More, more, more, more. The epidemic is going on, and human rights and illegal acts are going on, nothing to me, nothing to you. They simply decided to get to the bitter end. I fear that only a few years later will come on the day what has been happening in this period and what has brought a time when someone today, without shame, says without shame on television to citizens and citizens: “You know, when we are negotiating, democracy is when it is necessary to execute, but it is a dictatorship.” I didn't think we'd talk about that word after independence, and we wouldn't even deal with it anymore. This government isn't really awkward anymore, it's not ashamed anymore. They say out loud what they are going to do and how they are actually going to take these policies to Slovenia – through dictatorship. With dictatorship, did you hear? They're dealing with dictatorship. Yesterday, all the alarms should be ringing in Slovenia when the minister said so out loud. But no no, in an epidemic is allowed, it seems, completely everything, dictatorship, greed, power to the bitter end. And what's even more dangerous, we think that this is part of nature and that we have to get used to it and that what this power actually does is the most normal thing. You know, the devil took the joke a long time ago, but the problem is, when you get sick, especially when it's invisible, you get so scared and you're so afraid of it, it just doesn't matter anymore. If there is anywhere in this house, there must be no fog or cause, an excuse for us to turn away. This government has gone further. She simply made it very clear that the epidemic is now being blamed by the opposition, the opposition that has not given the legitimacy of this government, of course, in the way in which it is used to act only by the opposition, and in fact to decide. It is therefore important to keep an eye on this government and its actions and consequences. Unfortunately, the consequences will come anyway. This is seen in the actions of the President of the Government and individual ministers. Remember that at the time of the epidemic – I agree that life is going on, but – this government is simply taking certain steps that are contrary to all agreements, social patterns, and I will say finally also the basis for some of the grounds that we decided on in 1990. What devastation will be at the end of the day when this government ends its mandate or its early rule not only from a financial point of view, but not only from the point of view of human resources and not least the damage it creates in the world, in the international space, is only a matter of imagination. For what seemed impossible to us yesterday – because you know what “no, it will not do” – “no, but it will not go so far” and when you want and believe that this will not happen, it will happen exactly the next day. In fact, this government no longer has boundaries. If we once said there was only heaven above this government, I'm afraid the sky is gone too. As an opposition, I would like much more to deal with the classic part of the opposition, just as they do in every normal democratic country. Much prefer. But I'm afraid it goes beyond anything. The people I know and have not dealt with politics at all yesterday, and they were not interested in it at all – and in normal democracies, 80% of the population are not involved in politics at all, but they are dealing with some basic, purely everyday things, such as family, work, personal growth, entertainment, joy – today everyone is afraid of what this government will do the next day. Tell me if it's normal, is it really what we wanted in this democracy? The people that we thought were normal yesterday, for ordinary, for sober, for discerning, today without shame, are lying, and, most awfully, they even believe their own lies. These people are the most dangerous. One of the fundamental human rights is, of course, freedom of movement. Normally, during the epidemic and during the quarantine and limitation of this virus, it is undeniable that it is necessary to protect human lives, and one of the measures is to limit, of course, quarantine freedom. However, the measures proposed here by this government must not only be disproportionate but simply impossible to explain. Let someone simply explain to me that one of the experts and the policy that swears to this simply explains what it means to close all the restaurants, all the economic activities, to make service activities, and at the same time, when everything is closed, to set a curfew and simply not to stop it. One of the inspiring experts and at the same time ideological fans of this government said: "The danger is that people get drunk and then you can no longer blame them. It is therefore a curfew to get them home." Yes, for God's sake, how can he get drunk if all the inn is closed?Oh, my God! How? We do not pour alcohol outside of an epidemic at bus stations or gas stations and shops after 22 p.m. So who's honored by this farce now? Why am I bringing this up? Because curfews and restrictions on movement are one of the greatest interventions to human rights. I will say very directly: if this government, the SDS party with this Prime Minister, is a government that, every day for a second, does not forget to brag about how he liberated this country – if he freed it to shut us down and limit our movement in the police force, then let it stop bragging because we didn't want it. Not here in Parliament, no one in this country wanted a curfew. I'm just waiting - you know what? I'm really waiting for Orwell and the Chinese principle of how we're going to control the entire people with a facial exam. I even expect them to introduce the points of how we behave. One who looks a little ugly will not get enough points and may not get an apartment or get credit for it. Why do I speak in a way that actually caricates the whole thing? Because I mentioned at the beginning of my debate that everything that was just imagination yesterday could become reality and reality tomorrow. This government no longer surprises us, this government is just applying all our imaginations. It is therefore a matter of who bears political responsibility and who bears responsibility for all the consequences. Are we that far?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	Thank you very much. As a member of that committee, I am carefully reading the material as well as the Court of Auditors' report. The report is long, extensive, accurate. Thus, I read on page 9 in a summary how the Court of Auditors clearly states that the rules during the epidemic were inadequate and incomplete, and also instructs the Government to prepare a five-year supply reserve programme that will include all the elements required by the Law on Freight Reserves. So it is a confession that the government of Charché has done absolutely nothing. It's beautifully written on page 9. On page 38 of this report, the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters 2016 was adopted, which provided for the preparation of baselines for the programme to supplement the missing amounts of protection for the population for the five-year State Reserve Programme beyond 2018. The Sharcha government has done nothing. She fled from the epidemic on 27 January 2020, as did some at the time of her independence in Austria before the war on Slovenia. In January and February 2020, it was clear to us all that we were facing a major disaster. As President of the Committee on Health and Social Welfare of the Municipality of Ljubljana, I called, long before the epidemic was declared, an urgent meeting of this Committee, where we wrote down our opinion that the Municipality of Ljubljana should take certain measures. To our surprise, all present remembered exactly what the government of John Janša then took. At the same time, we had the expert opinion of the then NIJ Director on how to take action during the epidemic – to sneeze and cough and wash our hands. On 27 January, the Sharcha government left empty warehouses, there were no fans, there were no masks, there was no disinfection. It's the only way to cough up your sleeve. As soon as the outbreak was declared in March, the government of John Janša received such a condition. It had to deal with a global epidemic and a global shortage of face masks, surgical masks, breathing fans, eventually disinfected. Vaccination. That the lie, Mr Trček said, said the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who then replaced the Minister of Health, who also left. He ordered and said that he ordered the vaccine, ordered the Ministry to get the vaccine as quickly as possible, regardless of the cost, only that the vaccines would be. We all know about AstraZeneca's problems. AstraZeneca is a company that supplies vaccines, has a contract with the European Union. All countries have problems with AstraZeneca. However, that vaccination is going well with us, people living in Germany say. Germany, known for its discipline, order and justice, is significantly more lagging behind after vaccination than Slovenia. That's not what our predecessors said. The Commission of Inquiry shall extend its investigation for a longer period. Careful reading of all materials, in particular the report — taking time — indicates incompetence, unconsciousness, neglect of the Sharcha government in every document. Therefore, in despair, new hairs are sought in the egg at the work of this government, for the attack is the best defense. Okay, if someone's hiding their incompetence with the charges, we're just gonna investigate. There's no way we're going to let you say that, but now we're not going to investigate because we're afraid of something. Let's just explore, because we have time! It is true, though, that it is necessary to read the reports accurately and not to speak casually, but to lie with them. Because if you read precisely, then I'm afraid that the client who publishes his program will be a new program – in fact, I don't know if they're going from an empty pool into the kitchen with a doughnut, but the water that's been drained, so the manure that's going to pour on them, no water that's been released from this pool will be able to wash. Because with every new request, he shoots himself in the knee. Read the Court of Auditors’ report. It's not all interpretation, you have to read it. And also the inventions of the SAB, how we talk about water. Although this is not the topic, but since he has already talked about it, the SAB Member – it is not true that anything will pollute in the water protection area. This water will be clean water. This article goes out of the law, but no clean water will be able to wash this manure that has been poured into the opposition itself. But you pour it so that you don't even read the material and talk into it, and there's another lie that comes along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	The replica, Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The truth is, in the first half of the Janša government, there was nothing in the supply reserves of this material, regardless of government. There was something small in 2015 until the epidemic occurred, in fact, there was a small health care home for one day to keep and protect. These are the facts. Second fact. The President of the largest opposition party always sits in the National Security Council. Janez Janša, if not in power, is in the National Security Council all the time. Third time. Even if Charc's government were worthy of its polishing rods, ten times as bad as you put it, it is not an excuse to surprise you with the first, second, third wave and to do the work you have been doing for over a year, madam. Basic logic. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Robert Pavsovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It is very difficult for me, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, to combine a position with a Member right now, but the debate of the Member actually shows the whole dimension and mentality of the approach to this issue, and in particular indoctrination and degrading attitude not only to me personally as President of the Commission of Inquiry, but to this Assembly and especially to the public. Send someone to read – and I will read it to you, Madam Member, on the same page as you quoted it, and evaluate one more paragraph yourself: "The Court of Auditors has assessed that the Government, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence and the Department of Commerce Reserves, each within their competences, have not been effectively organised in the procurement and procurement of necessary protective and medical equipment. The procurement procedures have therefore not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of providers of protective and medical equipment, and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts.” If you read this carefully, it's clear to you if you don't understand it and I'll translate it into illegal. If they are in breach of the rules and other acts, they shall be illegal. We continue: “The effect of such behaviour has also been reflected in the fact that some users have been distributed inadequate protective equipment or ventilators that were not suitable for immediate treatment of patients with COVID-19 at the time of distribution. A certain quantity of equipment has also been distributed to entities which have not been entitled to it without adequate grounds.” And if you insist so stubbornly on how empty warehouses were, then this equipment mentioned by the Court of Auditors is entirely, absolutely and entirely the sole responsibility of this government and this procurement system. Otherwise, I thought we were talking about another commission today, because in a committee I run, we're not dealing with the acquisition of protective equipment. This is the responsibility of another commission, which you have voted so franticly, and it would be good for both of us to connect together because it is very intertwined. That is why today we are talking about the Court of Auditors report – this is not actually the subject of both the proposal for enlargement and the content of the Commission of Inquiry. But it was said because there's something I can't do. [[…]] In fact, I cannot understand how a man can so completely ignore his intellect, knowing the whole story, that he says, "We already knew in January and February what awaits us." Yeah, of course, and I can only tell you one more time, and then the whistle turns chocolate. By the end of February, some of your people had gone skiing abroad, and then they were happy to publish it on your media. But that's just another story. In view of the debate, I feel that it would be better if we were quiet now, at least not to embarrass ourselves so much, and if we didn't talk about this matter, it would disappear faster, but it won't. We need to take a little look at yesterday's event. For this government has already underestimated the epidemic, with what we have made available to the public, proven underestimation. She underestimated the epidemic, underestimated the expertise, underestimated the people. Experimentation and late action resulted in measurable numbers. We've got over 4,000 dead. We have stopped public life in perfection for six months, we have been living in such a reality that we cannot even tell it reality, it is like we have a nightmare, schools are closed, and in the end the government has our face to claim and claim that everything went well. No, it didn't go well! In December he said: “We have entered a blind street with measures.” Tonin said yesterday, yesterday, look at the statement: “We have seen the consequences of late action.” The Minister of Defence therefore admitted yesterday that they had acted too late, and that is why they were now, in the third wave with this haste. Besides emptying a thousand beds in senior citizens' homes. And remember last fall when the secretary of state said: “The epidemic caught us relatively unprepared.” When I listen to these statements, the work of the Commission of Inquiry is actually quite simple. If these people who hold political functions repeat these statements before the commission of inquiry, our work is completed. Because that's exactly what we've been trying to prove, and that's exactly what we've been saying all along. “We walked into a dead end” – that means you didn't know what you were doing. “We have seen the consequences of late action,” said the minister of this government. This is a recognition that it was too late to take the necessary action. The head of the expert group is talking about experimenting in the second wave. Yes, a fine experiment was this — with severe consequences that continue and will continue. These statements need only be repeated before the Commission of Inquiry and this would be a responsibility and this would be a responsibility. But to be honest, I do not expect this, because this would be a step forward towards creating some advanced democracy, where responsibility does not only mean letters on paper, but also actually one concept that defines politics as such. This, lady colleague, if you're mentioning it, read it all. Because it's best to do selection and talk. Ineffective — illegal. Ineffective, illegal, in two words we can summarize. I thank all the debaters for further questions, for extending some new dimensions that we will be able to process qualitatively within the framework of the work of the Commission, but I am afraid that similar substantive escapades will also take place on the Commission. If someone else were to be president instead of me, I'd want him to have calm nerves, and I'll have them for myself, and I hope I'll follow my own advice. No matter what happens. One day this responsibility will have to be taken over, and one day it will be necessary to stop deceiving, lying, and very selectively reading what suits you. If you find one paragraph on 250 pages that suits you, you have to stick it to disability — no! As a commission, I ask all members to process or at least know the material we have at our disposal. What the colleague said today is proof that she has no idea what we are talking about and what we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he would also like to discuss the proposaler's representative, Robert Pavšč, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Five panellists have been reported. Everyone gets five minutes for a word. First up is Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, I had no intention of discussing this point, but when I listen to these discussions on the other hand, by the KUL opposition, I have to take a call. Above all, everything else is being discussed, just not what should be discussed. This is about the Water Act, before we listened to the representative of KUL, the party of the SAB, who discussed the Water Act, which is due tomorrow as the first item, on Tuesday. I don't know if this water thing is in this proposal of yours? I didn't see it. So I don't know, I'm just asking [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, that's what you discussed in the opposition, the Water Act. Then here we listen to everything that is possible, but all the days at these sessions are one and the same, a bunch of insinuations, deceptions, half-truths, lies, in short, you strike. It's a regular practice. I think it wouldn't matter how the title of the point, what the point has a name, we listen to the same thing all the time, all the time. I don't know if it's intentional or you don't know what you're talking about. What's the problem? Just one and the same, one and the same without tail and head. Yesterday there was a meeting in Brdo, where the President of the State invited all parties from Parliament. You didn't attend, you didn't come from the opposition, you rejected the President's invitation, here you are, today you're discussing this, which is not even in the material. And you're probably sorry you didn't attend so you could say there. Because you didn't take advantage of the possibility there, which would be right. If you are one of the states-owned political parties, it would be right to be there and be able to say these opinions. Without a post festival today, the day after that you are discussing here some things that you should say on Brdo pri Kranj and would probably be very well listened to because the matter was public. All citizens and citizens could see this in a direct transfer. You keep forgetting that there's an epidemic, and you're saying, I heard one debater get in, and he even said the schools are closed. I don't know if this debater has slept until now, that he doesn't know that schools are open. Schools are open. Schools operate normally according to the recommendations of the profession, as we heard yesterday, and with a unified opinion of epidemiologists and all others involved. They decided to take more stringent measures for 11 days in particular to avoid an additional 500 dead by June. 500 said the Minister of Health and Professional Affairs, who stands united behind him. And you're obviously whistled for that 500. 500 people would die if more stringent measures were not taken, which of course we will all have to stick to. But not to encourage, already here in these debates, to say in advance that these measures will not be taken to close the country, that it is all without connection. This already suggests to all those influenzars and everyone else who panic in this country and cause infections to spread. I would therefore ask you to be a little more patient in these discussions, to work together and to overcome this virus together, and not to make fun of health and, above all, this data, to protect 500 people by June so that they do not die. If we didn't accept it, of course, then later we'd use it and abuse it and talk, and again, so many and so many people died. So do not be double-minded, cooperate, respect, respect all measures and work for the good of all Slovenes and Slovenes and especially for the good of health, Slovenian health, in order to be able to do its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. I find it fascinating to listen to this. I really want to know why in the coalition you are so afraid of extending the parliamentary investigation if everything is so fine, so clean, so transparent and so on. And then talk about how you offer us a hand of cooperation, how the opposition does not come to the Hill, how it does not cooperate. Please, come on. In all PKP packages, we have offered you hundreds of suggestions on how to improve the strategy for the fight against the epidemic, and nothing, nothing has been accepted. So much for your cooperation. But I believe we are now being lured to the Hill to hide our incompetence, not to say anything else, behind the opposition's back. You're good at this, but we're not that stupid. But we are here in Parliament to face the facts, to examine things and to see where we are right now. As far as I'm concerned, it's a case of the epidemic. Yes, what should be the outcome if this government, with decrees, with decrees, communicates in a confused way, actually communicates disastrously? In fact, it is not clear to people, today one decree, tomorrow another, sometimes even published in the Official Journal and nothing at all. The method of obtaining quick tests, testing, purchasing and accessing vaccines is chaotic and wrong. The fact is, and you cannot deny that, for example, this government cancelled the order of almost half a million doses of Pfizer, 400 thousand doses of Moderna in December. Why, we don't really know. We don't really know. At the rate of vaccination that we are witnessing, in the absence of vaccines, we can be very concerned about this moment. This incredible incompetence and this irresponsible behaviour of this government could otherwise be covered by some rational organization of vaccination, but we also see here that the system either collapsed or never really existed. For example, you say you have set up some sort of vaccination strategy, but even if you did, it is more than obviously irrelevant because each healthcare home carries out this vaccination on its own. And so within a small country as we are, there are incredible inequalities. This is also a violation of human rights, respectable. Vaccination is carried out at an absolute rate without any central plan. While, say, the political class representatives were vaccinated on the NIJS unit and we were given priority over many social groups that should be given priority, let's say from workers in industrial halls where the epidemic is still spreading, the virus is still being transmitted, firefighters, health-threatening traders, traders, merchants, those who, after a miracle, are already on the turn of vaccination must be vaccinated in inappropriate situations, for example at the Economic Exhibition, where the elderly stand in line and wait in the cold. What about those who don't have their own personal doctor? Where do they turn? And maybe they're being medically compromised. We know that not all people today have a personal doctor, because it's simply hard to get to him, not because they wouldn't want to. All these things need to be taken a closer look at, explore what is going on. So far, the fact is that the virus is still spreading with all measures and with all the repression you can afford. It's spreading and there's no end or end in spite of your curfews, and I don't know what you're making up. In short, the measures are more than obviously ineffective, the vaccination is non-existent, they are chaos, inorganic, random, and this must be investigated. It's your responsibility. It is the collective health of the nation and you are responsible. This is the subject of an investigation, and it's the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. So that I don't repeat myself and this will go to my colleague Doblekar's liver, I'll start with a quote. I quote: “And in the end we will realize that we have come from barbarism through sadism into simple barbarism. That our lives will be slowly regulated by models that trade little, snivele little, threaten little, engage little in prostitution and steal little. They get jobs, they get positions, they get influence, they get influence to share prey. Little bastards who are the victim all the time. Buy parachutes for the time when the car will collapse.« End of quote, Mr. Leon Magdalenac. I also agree with the paragraph before that, but it is too long for us to fall into this sadism to be responsible — on the right, I would say guilty — both Zoran Janković and Miro Cerar, as well as Marjan Sarec, as mentioned by Mr Leon Magdalenac. If we touch these 500 more dead. These investigators also need to find out how many a hundred more are dead because someone has not prepared for the second wave, which he admits is a little interlinear, the vice-president of this government mags. Tonin. How many 500 more dead are there now and will be in the future because someone didn't order the vaccine if they could? Mrs Škrnjar herself said: "You know that the problems with AstraZeneca are problems." This was already known when Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša had to do something and he did not do it. Now people are saying that maybe because it wasn't as easy to do business here as it was with this equipment and those golf clubs, passats that are now standing in some warehouses. And only the bonus of profit in that company, which happens to be a company where the mother of one of the vice-presidents of the government works, is identical to how much you would have ordered these vaccines that you didn't order. There is also a question of how Mr Velinja, with his team, with Civil Protection, with the Mayor of Kočev team in the largest Slovene municipality on the surface and neighbouring small municipalities, could properly organize vaccinations, how they could organize this similar good in my and our Maribor. But at the same time, if you want, what we call a state or a government has failed. It's like it's scientific fiction to think about what register it's from, whether it's a register of residents or going to the ZZS, compulsory insurance and watching, calling people and actually dealing with things. And now the opposition is going to blame the Influenzars for actually screwing you up? On the one hand, Mr Doblekar says, let us love each other, let us work together, Mrs Škrnjar is still beating – sorry – a story like that virus chooses left, right, middle or I don't know where. Probably someone who's the executive has to do something, and here we have a story that someone wants to live on 30 years of age and to get it there from that pears in the Depala village — how long has it been? March 20th, Sunday, 27 years ago – it imposes some resentment that must now be experienced through all sadism, will slap the former president of the SMC Group. And no colleague from the coalition came forward about it. In short, we also have a misogynist Prime Minister of the Government, after all, what he's doing with both SMC ministers. Opposition. Is it the opposition's fault that this government apparently slept through the summer and the second wave was a surprise? And on September 4th, Dr. Ihan warned you, and then we'll go to the lockdown. This is some sort of infantility of primary socialization, I'll say as an analytical sociologist. What you are, Mrs. Shriner, as a long-standing pedagogy, you know very well. This is something that a child must survive at the latest between the second and third years of age, not that you are 62 years old, but that others are always guilty. Come on, grow up already.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm going to leave the inn debate with a slap and a wheeze, because of course none of this is true. It's a really ugly way of expressing it, and it's a fake way of expressing it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Will you leave me alone, please? I am also talking about Mrs Sukič not only not reading, she is not listening. But it's obviously your own self to the opposition: you're not good, you're not doing well, you're not reading much. And if you'd listened, you'd have heard, Mrs. Sukich, that I'm not afraid of extending the investigation. We've all unanimously confirmed that the investigation is expanding. However, the fact that Mr Marjan Sarec has not only left empty warehouses, following a resolution adopted in 2016 which imposed 2018 additions to the rules, has not ensured this, nor is it only on page 9, also on page 226 of the Court of Auditors notes that the procedures laid down in the Law on Freight Reserves and other existing rules or strategic and implementing documents are not determined to be useful for the effective assessment of equipment needs to be acquired and distributed to relevant users without delay. But Mr Sarec resigned on 27 January and had only time to complain about it until 13 March, when he was still able to declare the epidemic, and then hid nicely in the opposition. At the same time, I could supplement these rules imposed on him by the resolution and, as he saw in the Law on Trade Reserves, in order to need operational regulations on the basis of this. None of this has been done, but today you are talking about how ineffective our government is. This government faced an epidemic, directly at the outbreak of the epidemic came, operated on the basis of documents or regulations that were in force at the time, and thank God that it carried out the fight against the epidemic in the way it is, since it protected many lives and health. In one year, this government provided hospital beds for intensive care, which you could not have done before, even though you had a year and a half of the government, this government has also arranged additional, non-empty beds in nursing homes and this government has actually started working for people. The money she gave to solve the epidemic is money for people and for the economy, not for the bank factor, not for the resolution of tycoon credits that resolved bank resolution after Alenka Bratušek. Opposition KUL, I suggest you start reading the documents carefully and listen. Once again, we're not afraid of expanding the investigation, which should be extended. We're paid to work, so we'll investigate. And we're gonna have to read. We agreed unanimously that the investigation should be extended. If that's what you want, let it spread. Why not? There's nothing to hide. You can hide only you who hide or your president hides in the opposition, not likely, I'm sure because of the fear of the epidemic. If you take my speech as a snooze, I regret it. I think that I am unfavorably speaking with a suitable tone, but of course Mr Trček must end his gap at the level of the inn debate with insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	A typical case of lack of empathy and self-criticism, but let's leave the matter alone. Today we are talking about extending the subject of the inquiry commission's investigation, which mainly identifies political responsibility in response to the measures, across the cut-off date, which is October 27th. We will talk about the Court of Auditors and how much someone has earned legally or illegally, how much potential corruption, customerism, we will talk about when the time is right; once soon. But when we talk about the 2016 crisis plan, let's talk about the 2020 crisis plan. At that time, however, we had experience from the first wave, and we were already preparing for the second wave. But that's something you have to forget again, isn't it, Mrs. Boxman? Because it's completely irrelevant. I would be very interested, however, to see why neither of the debaters on your part has identified, denied or confirmed the statements we heard on television yesterday and in recent months, particularly as regards Mr Restovalska, Mr Tonin, Mrs Bregant and the heads of the section. Members of your government speak and declare publicly that something has gone wrong in controlling the epidemic. Not something, a lot of things went wrong. But this is not what the Vice-President of the Government says, one, Vice-President of the Government of the other, as the head of the section speaks and as the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health says. You always have to look for some non-bullying reasons to excuse your fairy tales. I'm sorry, but it won't go any further. It is even sadder now to trivialize the number of prevented deaths. I hope that we will prevent more than 500 of these measures, which have now been announced. The key problem is that this government has wasted all human trust and confidence in the actions that work. Because if measures were to work, we wouldn't have that situation today. That's what's important. Remember, we have measures more or less in force since 13 March last year, more than a year, by dissolution or by sharpening. Whether or not the epidemic has been declared in the meantime is not really that important, but the measures are in force at all times. And in the second wave, it wasn't proven to work. Evidence is the number of excess deaths, evidence was overwhelming pressure on the health system. But that's what, I'm sorry, according to public record, the government has cooked itself, not the opposition. I hope that once the debates we have in the investigative commission will be able to move into a slightly wider space and that the documents available to the investigative commission can be made public once. Then we'd start talking a little differently because the document is very hard to deny, even if it comes from under your fingertips. And I'll tell you, I can't wait for the hearings to start, I can't wait to hear this report publicly, I can't wait for the hearings to start on another commission, where I'm also a member. There's a lot to show for it. A lot of people are gonna be able to show up with a finger and I wouldn't be so happy, even if I seemed to know things in the archive. I haven't seen you down here before, but I've been down a lot, you know. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Boxer, please, you don't have a word. I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly ordered an extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences, in view of the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms, for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the determination of the extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation and for any modification of the applicable legislation governing the State’s action in the management of the epidemic of infectious diseases or its consequences. The proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is set out in the proposal to extend that parliamentary investigation of 19 February 2021 and in the Act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation of 8 February 2021. 3. 2021 you've received. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that it is appropriate to consider whether the measure is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market. MARCH 2020 UNTIL THE DEFINITIVE PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION AND MOBITION OF THE APPLICABLE LEGISLATION OF ORGANISATION, WORKING, MANAGEMENT, OBJECTIVES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE SLOVENIAN POLICE. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the request for a parliamentary inquiry was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members were submitted to the first-signed Branet Golubović. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Police are a service for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Service of citizens and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. She cares for the safety of all of us, and over the years, she has gained people's great trust. Does anyone in this country have the right to undermine that trust? Does anyone have the right to interfere with the work of the police, to submit to it? Does anyone have the right to turn the police into a service of a ruling policy? We are convinced in the List of Marjan Šarc that no one has this right. That no one has the right to use even epidemics to strongly politicize the police. At the same time, in the List of Marjana Šarc, together with the co-signatures for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry, with Social Democrats, Levica and Page Alenka Bratušek, we are concerned that by setting up SDS parties and parties loyal to all key positions in the police system, we are moving to a stage where the police are practically politically controlled. There are many indications for this, there are many reasonable suspicions that politicisation and ruthless submission are transforming the police into an extended arm of the ruling policy. In such situations, we are obliged to react, under such circumstances we are obliged to protect the reputation of the police with all democratic means. All together, we must be very concerned that the citizens are losing confidence in the Police as an institution. This is also confirmed by the Survey of Slovenia published days ago. It only confirms what anyone can hear, who can at least move a little between people and listen to the pulse in society. Sadly and at the same time, it is a matter of concern that confidence in people also declines in the police profession itself, and this is unfair to every police officer, police officers who in every situation at every hour take care of our safety risk even their lives. What has happened that people lose confidence in both the police and the institution and in the police, in a profession worthy of all respect, in a profession that they should trust by the nature of their mission, because they depend on our security and our well-being? In these extremely difficult times, when trust is a fundamental element of success in managing the epidemic, it is difficult to understand the reaction of the Director General of Police, Dr Anton Olai, who is even positively surprised because the decline in confidence in the police is not as much as he expected. Those are his words. That was his response. What, then, remains that part of the policy for which the political abuse of the police is already suspected clearly enough to be a strong rejection in democratic society? Voice of warning, parliamentary questions, the convening of parliamentary committees, the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior, not all of this, is not sufficient. In addition to the flat-rate replies and denial of the facts, this is, as a rule, turned into accusations by the government coalition, the internal minister, the Prime Minister and the people of his cabinet at the expense of the opposition, to launch some left-wing propaganda aimed at overthrowing the government. Therefore, it remains more effective to identify the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions. And during this parliamentary investigation, documents and testimonies will be able to confirm the suspicions that, in other proceedings in the parliamentary regime, many times remain at the level of suspicion, since government officials Janez Janša do not generally assume political responsibility. It is in the public interest to demonstrate the possible political responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs for allegedly inadmissible political interference between the Minister and his State Secretaries and the President of the Government and State Secretaries in his cabinet with the work of the Slovenian police. And it is in the public interest to prove that they want the internal ministry and the police summit with alleged political interference in the procedures to prevent or make the work of police units, specialised units and investigative groups and individuals in matters in which their findings could have political consequences due to the involvement of government officials and members of the ruling coalition. And due to procedural correctness, I am talking about possible political responsibility and alleged interference, although I have no doubt that the parliamentary investigation will confirm this assumption. I have no doubt that the SDS's largest government party has put the human resources structure in the Police Summit in such a way that Interior Minister Aleš Hojs has been able to mix his political function with the post of Police Director. It is necessary to know that the word “wrong political orientation” in police personnel is the most commonly used syntagma when the government of Janez Janša is in power. The first director of Anton Travner, after his predecessor Tatjana Bobnar went on the first night of the new government's performance to think about his future, did not stay there for long, but long enough to put Private Urbas on the post of Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police, and from the post of Director of the National Investigation Office illegally dismissed Dark Male and put Igor Lamberger there. Sam Travner left because he obviously couldn't stop the house investigation because of the controversial purchases of protective equipment at Economic Minister Restoration. At that time, he reached out to the burlesque with the irrevocable resignation of Minister Hojs, who apparently was also afraid because he had already failed to pull the brakes on the first reverberating matter. For Prime Minister Janez Janso, however, his error was not as much as the Minister himself thought it was. When Travner was replaced by Andrej Jurič, it was clear to everyone in and outside the Police that it was a transitional solution. Otherwise, you are not supposed to be a hard-on for SDS, but it is manageable enough to carry out several human resources exchanges in key places, such as the Director of the Board of Uniform Police and the Head of the Internal Investigations and Integrity Sector. And, of course, according to the tender aerobics, he carried out the placement of Petra Grah Lazar at the head of the National Investigation Office, or the choice of the SDS party. In front of her, Igor Lamberger, head of the National Investigation Office, was quick to say good-bye to the criminalists at the time of the rest of the investigation, and Uroš Leposa, who also gave up in the face of constant pressure on the National Investigation Office. New, already the third director of the Police, Dr. Anton Olay, is finally the right extension of the minister's term. Thus, an axis of command has been established from the President of the Government and the people in his cabinet to the Minister of the Interior and the people in his office, and through the Director General of the Police to the top of the Criminal Police Administration and to the National Investigation Office. The ruling policy will be or is already completely on track as to what is happening to the investigations, of course also to those which may be burdensome for the SDS client and the current government officials. The Director of the National Investigation Office shall determine who will investigate, direct the proceedings, receive information about the course, waive the matter to individual police administrations, know about the planned houses of investigation. In short, he knows everything, and if he's right-minded, he's right-handed. If we know that NPU criminals are dealing with investigations that the SDS party wants to stop at all costs, such as disputed financing by the SDS party or disputed procurement of protective and medical equipment, then it is clear why they have adapted the relevant obedient and client-friendly human resources structure. One of the methods is the establishment of so-called working groups. The first, allegedly dealing with migration, has already been established by former Director Jurič, but it is, as in the police line, the criminal group in which the former Director was dismissed, and the dismissed Director of the Criminal Police Department, the criminalist, who worked for the ruling policy of the most sensitive and potentially burdened cases, such as the investigation of irregularities in Knovs, where the investigators are State Secretary Mahnic and Defence Minister Tonin. David Antolović, former assistant director of the NPU, found himself in this group subsequently, apparently by policy order, never dealt with the problems of the Schengen border. In the same office David Antolović was found, this time in another working group dealing with backlogs on the Ljubljana Police Administration and former assistant director of the NPU, formerly head of investigations at the NPU, who was the direct carrier of the investigation of the Minister of Economic Affairs for the contested purchases of medical and protective equipment. Otherwise, with some criminals who are now withdrawn from these working groups, Member Marijan Pojbič, on behalf of the SDS party, was charged on 18 September, if you will remember. He named them names as law enforcement agents of right-wing politicians, especially SDS parties. If this is not a direct political account and, of course, a direct sign to the police leadership, what it should do. Why do the police, as an institution and as a police officer, lose confidence in people? Because people began to see police officers as perpetrators of repression. I believe that when police officers get in the face that Janshevs or Hojs' soldiers, when people take special forces with more than ten kilograms of equipment on their hands with robes, the use of physical coercion in many cases, in which people are repulsed, is a financial punishment in cases where police officers themselves are ashamed to do so, for example when writing fines to taxis, for which taxi drivers – at least such information is circulating in the public – directly thank Minister Hojs, who ordered it, and punishing the students in Maribor, punishing them with double criteria only because they held banners in their hands with expressions of dissatisfaction. And I would rather not mention the procedure against the poet who read the poem before Parliament, but I will mention it precisely because, in the most eloquent way, it symbolically shows the tendency of this authority, the desire for a third expression of any opinion that is not at the will of this authority. And that's what he really cares about. All of this is happening under the cover of anti-epidemic measures, and in fact, the power at the side door is introducing a virtually verbal delicacy. A few days ago, I heard that police officers were told to be more relentful or understanding when dealing with traffic offences than the police director would have said. But the purpose of this commission of inquiry is not to reach the police to look through the fingers at traffic offenders so that they can be closer to the people. The purpose of the commission of inquiry is to expose the strong tendency of the current authorities to transform the Slovenian police from the service of citizens into a service of the ruling suit. And the purpose of the Commission is to protect the reputation of the police, which it still enjoys among its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Of course, the current opposition does not worry that the police would not do their job. They are concerned that under the new leadership, the police are successfully and very professionally carrying out their tasks. This concerns them because then those who finance and support the current opposition are affected. And then the circle is closed. The proposal before us is, of course, a mockery of the purpose of the commission of inquiry, as determined by the Slovenian Constitution, the Slovenian legal order, the law and the rules of procedure. What do they read to the minister? By giving guidance and guidance. What does the law say? The Minister is obliged to give guidance and instructions. It is said that you read to the minister what the law dictates. In this paper, which is very non-ecological, with the damage to paper for what is printed on it, you wrap your hands because a few human resources exchanges have taken place. And in the same breath, you read in the same text that you don't care about proper staffing and so on. This is said to be – proper staffing, which you would obviously like, is almost impossible to explain rationally. Besides trying to make an impression that something is going on that you shouldn't, and of course you know that you're misleading the public. One of the better ideas in this paper is that you refer to the lists of persons from the Police or the National Investigation Office who were at a meeting in the Office of the Minister of Interior, Aleš Hojs, at any time from 13 March to today, is to say the purpose of this investigation. Yes, very interesting. I think anyone who listens to us right now is very clear about where this is going. In short, the problem is if the minister works. What's more, what's one of the basics? Think, no problem, if there have been delays, say on the Ljubljana Police Administration, this is what comes out of this proposal, it is not a problem at all. But think if the police or the Ministry set up a task force to solve the backlogs on the police department, that's terrible. Aja, someone from some famous family may be harmed, which, after Ljubljana hara. This is indeed an interesting logic; it is not a problem of lagging behind on some police administration, the problem is that a working group is set up to resolve these setbacks. That's the problem. Who really ideologies the Slovenian police? Certainly, the Slovenian police have not been more ideological than Mrs Katarina Kresal and her group, or then what followed in the previous term. There's been a lot of trouble. I'm talking to the police right now. And it was established by the NPU – National Investigation Office. At the time it was said, this will be the new FBI investigating the most serious crime, which will be the most resounding successful investigations. Well, what's the result? Which was a successful investigation in Slovenia of some serious crime, by the criminal police. So far, the NPU has zero, zero, zero. And you're defending it. Why? Because the NPU was apparently designed to protect your colleagues, including those of the famous Ljubljana family. Everything is being investigated, but nothing is ever searched. And that's not a problem. That's why I wouldn't make an investigator; I'd make an investigator if he changed the leadership and tried to get things together to make at least some impact. Great logic in protecting Slovenian crime. Apparently, you can see where the opposition dog is taking tacos. And then we have a problem with the NPU on level two. Apparently, the NPU was not established at all to investigate serious crime; indeed, to cover it. And you won't believe it, there are witnesses, I've talked about it many times, who are willing to say it, if it's necessary for individuals from the NPU to publicly boast that they haven't searched anything, that they're not doing anything, and that the NPU is not searching anything. That's the problem. And I have already personally suggested to the Minister that the NPU should be poured back into the criminal police, who are working successfully and professionally. However, he made a different decision, probably also because all legislation should not be amended. Maybe he's just hoping something will come up from the NPU someday. But until now, the NPU has not done the job you should be doing. Let's hope it's under new leadership. But you're protecting this so that nothing has been investigated because your colleagues and financiers would be affected. And then we move on. We're replacing Mrs. Bobnar like this is a big hit for the police. What was Mrs. Bobnar's biggest project? For those of you who don't know, he was more removed from the public's eyes, but inside the police there was a lot of serious blood around it. Even those personnel that were from the former Yugoslavia, which you would consider to be very left-handed. Mrs Bobnar, as her greatest goal, wanted to establish that each police station would be a safe LGBP point. Whether at some point in this process we would get the police with pink spiders or not, I don't know that, but the fact is, there was a lot of controversy about this and a lot of preparations that have gone somewhere now. But it was a major project, not a project to protect borders, migrants, investigate serious crime, fight drug smugglers, smugglers with people, fight against everything that was right. The main project was that each police station would be a safe LGTB point. It is called, ladies and gentlemen, indeed the ideology of the police; and you are protecting it because you are defending it, you are defending it. And that is why you have now made this investigator – to protect crime that is not under investigation and to protect the ideology of the police under previous governments. When this police is finally working professionally and very successfully, which proved, for example, when it came to organised – you know, you had nothing, of course not - to the unrest in Ljubljana, and this serious violent unrest last fall, the police reacted extremely successfully. If you compare this with what is happening in some other major cities across Europe, we can only offer sincere congratulations. And you wanted to make an affair out of it. What was the problem? Aja, because after the case was over, the minister also visited them. Yeah, that's terrible. The Minister is interested in working in his field because he is, you won't believe, legally responsible. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Once the responsibility is established and the police work well, that's the problem. I believe you may not be concerned personally, but your friends who finance very much; I believe that because things are changing. And then you have to have an affair and then you say what happened to some of the procedures in the past period. I believe that these are the procedures which the Constitutional Court then defined as a crime or a violation of the Slovenian legal order from the first to the last second. You know exactly what kind of things this is about. They were directed at SDS – planned, systematic. Pure abuse. Let me remind you of one of these abuses. We're only passing what is now a good three years from the moment the police broke into the SDS headquarters and wanted to confiscate everything, electronics, take away all the computers and all the backups. It's called fishing. By the way, that thing is long gone. It's called fishing. This is unconstitutional, illegal. Did you propose to an investigator about this? No, it's not. Because it was a manifest abuse, a political abuse of the police. And not just the police, but even the prosecution. Only one who thinks it's just a judge who writes one such proposal is wrong. All those who have ever had a chance to see how these processes are going, you know that this is made essentially within the police and then goes after the confirmation of individual documents to the other institutions, as the law says. And what was the abuse? It was a whole circus. I stopped them when I went to control as then President of Knovs, when I showed that letter to the lady who was the most left-wing judge in this National Assembly, and she said it more than once. She just said - and I would never sign this, ever, because it's illegal. And then the cops sobered up and stopped that trial because of this judge's statement. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. It's abuse. Did you do any of this? [[…]] And that's how the police were used in previous mandates. But now she's not, and now the police are doing what she's called to do. He cares about security, security, public order and peace, and he does it very well. At the same time, it is humanely fed to take many more things, of course not in the way you have done it, to restore the reputation of a policeman and to bring him closer to the environment, perhaps with the reintroduction of so-called regional police officers and more. Not everything that has been in the past has been so bad, one thing should be reexamined and revived. But this investigator isn't meant to. This is intended to waste time and to review things that are clearly legal in advance. Even more if the minister had not done so if he had failed to provide adequate human resources solutions, if he had not provided guidance or guidance, guidelines, as the law stipulates, would have infringed the law on his own. So you're reading to Minister Hoys today that he respected the law. And that says a lot about you and, of course, what the purpose is. According to homework, it was said that the things that the Minister, and especially the Slovenian police, had done very well and very successfully in the difficult situation, which were totally incomparable to any period since the independence itself, in which, by the way, the Slovenian police also had an extremely positive role. But now the second most difficult period since then is not comparable to any intermediate time. As public order and peace must be taken care of at the same time, measures that are coordinated at European level – this is less talked about, but this is a fact – and of course they are also committed to our country, and within the country we need to implement what is necessary to prevent the pandemic. At the same time, care must be taken to protect the border while we have such a wonderful opposition in Parliament that it has already prevented the Slovenian military from giving powers to help this police protect the Slovenian border so that the Slovenian army can carry out its mission in this way. For the mission of the Slovenian Army is the protection of the integrity of the country, the protection of the external borders. Only for partial police authority. But even so many statescapacities were not in the current opposition to give the Slovenian Army these powers. It's a disgrace to all of us. And then you say it's necessary to investigate how Slovenian police work. Slovenian police in these difficult situations, which you are guilty of and you are responsible for, are extremely good at work, with human resources, which is the result of a long series of years, and, of course, the atmosphere created in a country that is anti-domestic, anti-domestic. Slovenia is pushed in all ways to a place where it does not belong. If, in public, a man who works in any uniform for his country, Slovenia, our country, had the reputation he deserved, then surely we would not be dealing with such proposals as is before us today. In its entirety, this proposal is meaningless, unfair, reflects legal ignorance and, of course, reflects the opposition's wish that the police do not do their job. Then your colleagues would continue to be so beautiful after the Balkan Harald as to continue to be behind on the Ljubljana Police Board, to ideologicalize the police with all possible ideologies and that the police would not carry out the work for which they were called and which is her mission. This is a concern for public order and peace, for the protection of the lives, prosperity and security of all citizens and citizens. In the SDS, we therefore reject all the evidence completely and only express our support in advance for the Slovenian police, so that, as in recent months, they continue to do their work professionally and successfully, for which we sincerely congratulate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Nik Prebil will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Congregation, well-welcome! Police as a state authority of security, organisation, political independence and a body of respect – all that is not under this government and under the leadership of Minister Hojs. And this is also the main reason why we are investing in LMŠ the commission of this parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the mandate of Minister Hojs. To restore the confidence of citizens and citizens in the Slovenian police, trust, which was once high, is unfortunately at the bottom today. According to the latest survey, the police are losing the most confidence in the public, which is very bad for the country as a whole. So why another investigator? Because it's really hard to trust this government. And it's not just the mistrust of us, the opposition. It's people's mistrust. That is why it seems all the more important for us to find out without any doubt whether this government and Minister Hojs personally influenced the police in terms of both ongoing procedures and in terms of the police and the institution. Perhaps also in order to cover up individual illegalities and irregularities involving persons associated with a leading SDS party. We have been drawing attention to controversial practices for some time now, and we are also obliged to react. We certainly cannot contest the fact that the government has a specific legal authority to appoint individuals to positions. However, with the express exchange of virtually all key personnel at a time when we should deal with the epidemic and mitigate its consequences, we rightly suspect that there is a different interest in the background and a good plan after the control of everything and everyone. The plan that Janez Janša failed to implement in the previous term and has so far been very well developed and introduced on the first day of this government’s performance. And human resources exchanges, respected, weren't anything, and they weren't just on the force. To date, there have been 827 human resources exchanges. The number increases after each government meeting. And the police are not an individual institution; they are an extremely important service to people who care for our safety and enjoy a high level of trust. Well, at least until recently. In a situation where the epidemic is shaping our lives, it is even more important that the current policy of the epidemic does not abuse it for the explicit political politicisation of the police. Let's take a look at some key trades. Police leadership, CEO – third person in a year. But finally one who is obedient, obedient, and especially faithful. By setting up client and client loyal personnel to all the key places in the Police system, we are moving to the stage where the police are practically politically controlled. However, even earlier, the site had to be prepared at the National Investigation Office, where the directors had also changed so much time that after the tender aerobics, by altering the conditions, they came to the right ones, ours, otherwise the perpetrators of the duty, as there is still no final agreement on the unlawful discharge of the former Director of the NPU. Even here, the government obviously does not understand the function of the courts, even less the division of power. And that's the third exchange in this office in a year. In the meantime, of course, the creation of working groups, which are convenient landfills, in fact punishments, for those criminals who have participated in the right policy of threatening procedures. When giving guidance that interferes with the legality of action and is exclusively a personality policy direction, we run into a strong conflict of interest. The politician, therefore, respected, directly influences the work of the NPU through the Police Director, while saying that the NPU should be depoliticised. Understand who can. And these constant attacks on the NPUs, which are represented by this ruling policy, of course by the SDS party, but the other parties in the coalition are silent observers, as if it were none of your business. Your honor, it's very important to you because you're part of this government outfit. And the silent observers are guilty of the same. The functioning of the NPU should, in the first place, remain professional and independent of any political options. No matter what policy changes, the systems remain. And the Slovenian police will stay here. The police, who, at the highest level, fulfils the mission of that service to the citizens, the police who grew up in this nation and, together with them, conquered our country. Police, which is the concept of expertise and security. And it is because of these actions of this policy that people no longer view the police as security, but rather as the police — the perpetrators of Hojsova and Janša’s repression. And this police, respected coalition colleagues, you're turning into your own police force. Actually, the minister is turning her into Hoys' police. This is dangerous, and in a democratic country like ours, no one has the right to do it. And when you say that you are saving lives, that attention is focused on solving the crisis, that your accelerated recruitment and other abuses, including disguises, help to manage the epidemic more effectively, is only misleading, is a distorted logic, because it is clear that it is not a concern for the welfare of the country and the nation, but only for its own interests. And like one of you said on the right, it's about money, that's it. And all of the above you perform under cover of measures against the epidemic and the truth lovingly on our client doors you are actually introducing a verbal delict. When the opposition or, in fact, anyone draws attention to anything disputed by this government, they are immediately subject to personal discredits and accusations that they do not care about the health and life of citizens and citizens. Meanwhile, the government's representatives in the background are making decisions that have nothing to do with the epidemic and nothing to do with it. It is therefore a matter of coincidence or an impact on the course and outcome of pre-trial and criminal proceedings. It is therefore merely a case of targets being all those institutions and persons involved in SDS investigations. Of course not. All these actions show that this government and coalition do not allow control over themselves and their businesses, which should primarily be a basic hygienic condition for the normal and uncorruptive functioning of power. The facts are as follows. The minister was in cahoots. He was a big shot. The police's most important personnel were changing like a liquid tape. The minister also punished. He punished all those insubordinate cops who dared to resist or speak. And not just them, he punished the people. The minister lied, not only to the public through the media, he proved to be lying and misleading in the National Assembly. The minister was a subordinate. He subordinated the police to himself and his client. Did the minister also have an impact on the course and the conduct of the forecasting and other procedures? Did the minister also influence the NPU? Did the minister act unlawfully? Did he help his friends keep them hidden? This and a number of other issues to be raised in the functioning of this Minister need to be explored. This is simply a high public interest. And in this we shall not be the prosecutor's office, nor the court: this is the second branch of authority that cannot be confused. And unlike you, we understand that. However, we will be searching, searching and also trying to prove that ministers and government actions have serious consequences for the police and related activities. So we will find everything and anyone who has cooperated in the destruction of this part of the system, which means security for people. And that the Minister has political responsibility for his actions. And if and when these things and illegalities are found, then he also bears criminal responsibility. The purpose of the commission of inquiry is therefore to express the strong desire of the current government to transform the Slovenian police from the service of citizens into a service of the ruling suit. In LMŠ we oppose this and we will not allow the destruction of the police out of respect for it. The investigator will start work immediately, and the material is already a lot. And the devil did bring a joke, a respected colleague and colleague, and a government assessment — not enough, one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are looking forward to a debate on the Act on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations to establish the actual situation and the possible political responsibility of public function holders for unacceptable political interference with the work of the Slovenian police, its investigative bodies, investigative groups and autonomous investigative units due to the suspicion of political influence on the course and/or outcome of forecasting and other procedures for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question and the possible modification of the applicable legislation governing the organisation, operation, management, tasks and powers of the Slovenian police. In a bad year, the government replaced three Directors-General of the Slovenian Police, and this was also done at the National Investigation Office. In our opinion, the government is systematically trying to influence the police due to the narrowly targeted objectives of the political party of the Prime Minister and his people. The police, which were heavily trusted by the people of Slovenia recently, are losing support among the people of Slovenia. It is also because, through instructions from the Minister of the Interior and the silent agreement of the Chief of Police on a daily basis, the people are under pressure and often impose high penalties for events which we believe are unjustifiable. The payment order for a resident who ate a croissant or a sandwich on the street is certainly not a proportionate measure that would have a positive impact on the wider crowd. Is the resistance to the conduct of a country that is carried out in accordance with the rules really necessary to be prosecuted by writing fines? And that's because they demanded that education take place in school, or because of the dissatisfaction of taxi drivers, and you could even mention it. Ladies and gentlemen, I know from experience that warnings generally have greater effects than repressive measures, especially when instructions and measures are contradictory, illogical, unclear and are interpreted by those responsible in their own way. Perhaps it is just a diversion of attention from the activities that are taking place in the police, that is to say, a shift away from certain audits of some rebuttal cases which are without exception in the interest of the ruling Slovenian Democratic Party. Often changing leadership at the National Investigation Office is, in our opinion, a step towards decommissioning the institution. As already stated in the explanatory statement, the authorities have introduced a new way of withdrawing some criminals or lead investigators who may or may not have already compromised the interests of the ruling SDS party. It is about setting up some working groups or, rather, putting “problem personnel” on the sidelines. The actions of this government go in the direction of subordinated authorities to current policies. For he wants to protect his people and some members of the government who are in premonition proceedings because of the various reverberating suspicions of criminal services. This government also exerts pressure on other supervisory institutions, such as the Constitutional Court, to the Court of Auditors. New conditions are laid down for cooperation between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office and the like. The signed motions for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the possible political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference with the work of the police and the political influence on all other independent supervisory institutions are of the opinion that it is in fact a recent time for these abuses to be halted and to prevent the further breakdown of control systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye! Since Minister Aleš Hojs took over the Ministry of the Interior, we have witnessed from day to day the alarming phenomenon of the threat of autonomy and professionalism, we have witnessed brutal political cleansing at the NPU and in the Slovenian police. In the spirit of increasing terror, rematching and self-voluntary power, which is also specialised or primarily by Minister Aleš Hojs, we are sliding across the borders of fundamental democratic standards. In Levica, Minister Aleš Hojs is first and foremost exposed to political recruitment or human resources degradation and exchange in key positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system, especially in the Police and the Ministry of the Interior, where experts are exchanged with politically obedient personnel to influence predictive and criminal matters involving members and supporters of the SDS party. For example, the last such case is the transfer of the first husband of Cypriot criminals, Andrej Jurič, to the highway police. We are giving him control of the repressive authority by means of his complete submission in order to prevent protests against the government. In short, we give him illegal pressure on the work of the police and an objective and subjective responsibility for increasing police brutality and police repression against Friday's protesters, parents and students, against all those who are ever protesting against the current government. We are giving him access to investigations at the NPU, such as an illegal request for a review of criminal investigations conducted by the NPU and other illegal orientations – I stress, illegal guidance – and mandatory instructions to the police; all to protect the investigators associated with the SDS client. We're showing him illegal emergency control at the NPU, we're picking up a conflict with the unions, and we're violating union rights with a view to disrupting the labour organisation within the police. Let me mention just two in a series of incidents that Aleš Hojs has benefited from in his rather extensive record of controversial work. First, at the beginning of August 2020, the Minister of Interior then ordered the Deputy Police Director, Andrej Juric, to carry out an audit of specific, already completed criminal investigations at the National Investigation Office (NPU). Shortly thereafter, on 19 August 2020, a new attack on NPU investigators followed when he ordered the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate for Internal Affairs of Severin Pek to oversee the protection and treatment of classified data. There are no doubts as to the illegality of the audit or the selective audit requirements for the internal minister back within the professional public. Only the state's attorney and no one else, at least the minister, can open a separate back-up investigation. The Minister of the Interior cannot therefore impose audits for criminal investigations directed by the Attorney General. The law on police organisation and work does not contain the concept of audit referred to by the Minister in the mandatory instruction of the Director of Police Juric at the time. There is also no known practice to verify individual investigations. Hojs's purpose is obvious, influence and pressure on the work of the prosecution and the continuation of the witch hunt at the NPU, on those criminalists and criminals who are not politically inclined by the largest ruling party. Interior Minister Aleš Hojs, by order of the criminalist, ordered them to revise the completed procedures of the NPU, thus crossing the border of a democratically permissible border separating the police from the political function. The fact that Minister Aleš Hojs has ordered the revision of specific, already closed cases, those whose epilogue of criminal investigations was by no means a party to the SDS. It is clear that I would like to obtain important information in police files, information that could be misused by the SDS party in the future in its political work and in order to deal with targeted targets. It is clear that the Minister is looking for a repetition of those procedures set up by the SDS with its investigators in the National Assembly. For example, let us ask ourselves why they do not open cases from the SDS wing, such as from the Patria affair, Zvon one, Bell two, money launderer at NKBM, credit business with Dijana Djudžić from Bosnia and Herzegovina and others. And while the black clouds of the review of the last part of the NPU criminalists have not yet been properly blown, a new attack followed on 19 August 2020, an extraordinary surveillance of security and the handling of classified data was ordered by the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Interior of Severin Pek. This was the way the NPU was raided by inspectors who were searching the computers for confidential documents. In the Police Union, it was pointed out that such a form of control was illegal and, in the light of the provisions of the Secret Data Act, was also not within the jurisdiction of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, the Inspector did not have the right to access computers that were personally in charge of employees, nor to search them or the contents of a hard disk. This means that criminals are not obliged to allow access to electronic devices because such an intervention is illegal and illegal. But the Minister's legality of action is obviously not of interest. It must be made clear that the attack on the NPU and on the institutions which must be autonomous in their operation is an attack on the country. We firmly believe in the Levica Party that the guidelines and mandatory instructions given to the police leadership by the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, as well as the ministers' visible and evidentiary tendencies towards police submission and the political pressures on the work of the investigating authorities clearly show that Minister Hojs wants to politically manage the police. And this is a limit that the Minister should never have crossed. However, since it is practically every day in its mandate, it is high time that the Minister's work is taken seriously under the magnifying glass if we are to defend the autonomy of the investigative and supervisory institutions in this country and thus the highest democratic standards. In Levica, we support the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of public officials due to the suspicion of inadmissible political interference with the work of Slovenian police, police units, specialised police and investigation teams and the suspicion of political influence on the course and/or outcome of forecasting and other procedures from the beginning of the mandate of the Government of Janez Janša until the parliamentary investigation is ordered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! In New Slovenia, we respect the parliamentary investigation instrument and see it as a serious tool for Members and Members to investigate and clarify the actual situation and the possible political responsibilities of public function holders in various matters. We are aware of the weight and collected signatures of at least one third of all members of the National Assembly, which are required in accordance with Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation to submit a request for the establishment of a new parliamentary inquiry. It is therefore a constitutional institution, and we must act accordingly. The National Assembly already has 6 investigative commissions, for which we want more progress in Novi Slovenija, which come with concrete conclusions from the commission, which cast doubt or confirm it. At the time of the arrival of the invisible enemy, New Slovenia has taken a proactive approach to the formation of a new – the current government and thus prevented the headless and, above all, the opportunistic desire of one party after leaving for elections in the middle of the global pandemic. While it is perfectly legitimate to request a parliamentary inquiry, we cannot get rid of the feeling that it is also a purely classical political struggle, when on the one hand the current coalition is dealing with a covida-19, which has put the whole world in an unenviable position; on the other hand, the unconstructive attitude of the opposition, which does not outweigh the seriousness of the situation, at least in the participation of the Sunday meeting of the profession and policy at Brdo pri Kranju. 39 opposition Members signed a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of public function holders for inadmissible political interference with the work of the Slovenian police, its investigative bodies, investigative groups and autonomous investigative units due to the suspicion of political influence on the course and/or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary inquiry in question. In the fact that the current government is trying to attribute supernatural powers, however, in New Slovenia we welcome the establishment of this commission to verify and identify any suspicions, especially that it ends up operating in public with unverified assumptions. In the position of the Group Member, we would like to remind the general public in Novi Slovenija of a number of events in the previous and current meeting of the National Assembly, which are directly and indirectly linked to the reference of this Parliamentary Commission. In the past and in times of government with a different worldview view, the inaction of police and criminalists in the investigation of specific cases that have often landed in the drawers of the undernourished police administrations has not been investigated in sufficient detail. The media has repeatedly mentioned Postojna Police Station. The issue of possible unacceptable political interference with the work of the Slovenian police does not, in our opinion, agree with the detention of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology during the pandemic. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the procedures and reports so far, despite the enormous engagement, have not shown any major violations. Finally, in Novi Slovenija we would like the time interval of the investigative commission to be wider, since the period since 13 March in our opinion is not enough to clarify possible problems in this area. It seems that the current opposition was afraid to investigate even the period when they were in power alone. A very similar method to that of the Investigative Commission as regards the state of the protective equipment. I believe you didn't want to investigate the procedures that led to empty warehouses. This time, too, the determination of the initial date of the investigation raises concerns, as it shows the fear that anything from your government's mandate would be exposed. The opposition's excuses that they do not want to investigate themselves are attracted to the hair, since in such an investigative commission, in accordance with Article 6 of the Parliamentary Inquiry Rules, each parliamentary group of its representatives does not have a private parliamentary investigation of one political option. The Group agrees with the establishment of an investigative commission, although we have little concern about the time component, since we feel that before the last quarter of the reference to the eighth term of the National Assembly, the period is somewhat too short. We have had and still have various parliamentary investigations, from the case of vascular resistance, TES 6, bank holes, bad banks, customer financing and so on. Some parliamentary investigations work better, others slightly worse. We certainly want all members of this new parliamentary investigation to succeed. The goal of New Slovenia within the commission of inquiry will be one; and this is to enlighten the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much. He'll be like the last one. Andrej Reich presented the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! It has been more than a year since the current government's appearance. This year was marked primarily by an epidemic of coronavirus, and the government of Janez Janša doubtless left its mark. From day one, we are citizens and citizens who have witnessed actions that point to the Government's extremely strong ambition for supervision. One after the other, staff exchanges took place, and in particular, exchanges in key human resources positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence area were placed in the eyes. Most of these bodies belong under the Ministry of the Interior. At the time of the appointment of Aleš Hojs as Minister of the Interior, we have already warned in the Sab party that it is a person who has a great desire for authoritarian guidance and a desire to control those institutions which are independent under our constitution and laws. Among all candidates for ministers was the candidate for the Minister of Home Affairs, in our view, one who could compromise the functioning of this government. This is the kind of man that the President of the Government imagined in this position. It is aware that only through its assistance can it achieve its objective, view and impact on the work of the Police and the impact on the progress or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. It will be recalled that key human resources exchanges have already been carried out at the government's founding session. The ruling policy has thus led the police, the military, the intelligence security services in Morse and many other authorities to be loyal to themselves. The exchange was then also given the top of the Directorate of Criminal Police and Owl. In the SAB, we are aware that each government, at the time of its term of office, puts its people in certain key positions. There are clear grounds for this. In our country, however, we have authorities where the mandate in the highest positions is clearly fixed in time. These are, in particular, bodies that must be autonomous and independent of the governing policy in their operation. The Human Resources Rosades, which received the most violent responses, are those at the National Investigation Office. In early May, when Darko Male, Ivan Lamberger was first placed at the head of the National Investigation Office, then Uroša Lekoša, last of which was Petra Grah Lazar. It is a person who does not meet the conditions for becoming Director of the National Investigation Office with full powers, as he has no managerial experience. Her profession, however, sees a lack of experience in police and criminal work. That the discharge of Dark Male was illegal, we were convinced in the SAB from day one. Later, our allegations were confirmed by the Administrative Court in Novi Gorica. However, repeated exchanges were not limited to NPUs, and the government also replaced the Director-General of the Police twice. All the names the government has placed on the positions of these key authorities are eloquently indicating that it is a fully politically motivated workforce. Therefore, the autonomy of these organs is questioned. In the SAB, we ask more than justifiably whether both the police and the NPU are still independent in their work, or whether they are actually subjected to political pressure. When the police were led by Andrej Jurič, the minister began to intervene directly and to interfere with specific open forecasting procedures. In doing so, he intervened in the jurisdiction of the state prosecutors, who are legally responsible for the prescribing proceedings. They also adopted a new practice, namely the establishment of specific working groups. For example, a Working Group on Migration was set up to include police officers representing thorns in the fifth largest government party. This is about people who have not done migration before; they have done good, quality and professional work in their jobs so far. From day one, the government has been fighting against the covida-19 virus against the rule of law and the system, which should be improved rather than decommissioned. In the SAB, we agree that such conduct is unacceptable and unacceptable, and we therefore support the determination of the parliamentary investigation. It will show whether the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have really crossed the line in their work; and therefore they are also politically responsible. Some public surveys show that in the last year the police have lost the most confidence in the country. Police should be an organ in the service of the state and its citizens, not a tool for governance. The parliamentary investigation is certainly in the public interest, as citizens and citizens deserve to be investigated and found out the actual situation in the Slovenian police and, above all, in the National Investigation Office; and that such unacceptable behaviour by public function holders is absolutely prevented in the future. Every time the opposition in every democratic system is called to mind the controversial and irregular practices of the ruling. We have been doing our job in the SAB all this time, and we will also be actively involved in the parliamentary commission, as we will continue to do our best to prevent the government from destabilizing democracy and transforming our country into another republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the procedure first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Madam Vice President, we are talking about a very serious subject. The time is 13.09, but we have only 36 Members in the Chamber. The hall is completely empty, I see one representative from a colleague from SD, LMŠ and SAB. And that's all. With 36 registered cards, I have a procedural question whether we can continue our work at all. Of course, I understand that this is the last point and that some would like to go home on this beautiful weather, but the job is here, in the National Assembly. And I want to know what to do. For as worthless as some Members take up their work, but not for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your procedural question more than no. The presence of Members for the debate shall not be required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the quorum shall be checked only before the vote. I in this place, although the hall is almost empty, cannot do anything that would be in accordance with the rules of procedure which would allow me to do so. Although there are only 36 registered cards, and far from there are so many Members in the Chamber, we need to hold a debate or have the opportunity to hold a debate. I suggest we start the debate anyway. The first word was asked by the proposaler, Mr Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would respond to some of the allegations or findings made by Mr Grims' biggest government party, who in fact fabricated and crippled the basic message presented in the request or proposal for the establishment of this commission of inquiry. He turned around some facts and claims that we want to investigate how the police work, which of course is not true at all. It is a matter of identifying political responsibility and, of course, we are not, by no means, at the level of the profession, nor do we have the authority to investigate how the police work. On the other hand, if we have pointed out a violation of the reputation of Slovenian police between citizens and citizens, we are not saying that we will investigate the work of the police, but we want to find out the reasons, the reasons why this is happening. And the only thing I can agree with him about this is when he said that the police were successfully carrying out their tasks. I can agree with this, and in explanation we have clearly separated the professional work of the police from the process of politicisation and political interference in the work of the police alone, all the way to the police working on the ground at the highest level. We understand the law very well, and what the Minister's powers to give guidance and instructions to the police work mean, we understand very well. But this does not mean that the policy – through the Minister and people in the cabinet, through the Director-General of the Police and below – can be directly involved in the investigation procedures themselves. According to the indications we have, and this is what we want the Commission of Inquiry to end up confirming or rejecting that there is a direct involvement in the procedures for investigating the financing of the SDS's largest client, and to mention only the most receptive, in investigations into the procurement of protective and medical equipment. This government was in charge of the acquisition. So it's not an impression that this is happening, but they're actually in the palm of their hand very clear, very clear indication that these involvements are coming. And it is obvious to us that we are against the establishment of working groups that are supposed to end, in this case he mentioned the backlogs on the Ljubljana Police Administration. Of course we're not against it. However, if I withdraw from the previous statement what is happening now with regard to this working group to remedy backlogs on the Ljubljana Police Administration, for example, an NPU criminalist, who directly, directly, conducted procedures in the investigation of the contested purchase of protective equipment and medical equipment, landed right in this working group to remedy backlogs. So a criminal operative who worked on a specific case was removed from there and transferred to this task force. This, in our opinion, is a direct consequence of what we claim to be involved in the policy and clear direction of the procedures themselves. We did not trouble us, as did our obvious colleague Grims, the Deputy Director General of the Tatjana Bobnar Police, we did not trouble her. Otherwise, we mentioned the way in which this change took place, before the government took power by Janez Janša, because, of course, the current Secretary of State in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Jan Mahnic made it clear to her that he should consider his future and, of course, also tell her what would happen when they came to power. But we haven't bothered to replace the Director General of the Police himself. Exchanges have also taken place in the past. Personally, I think if the police are working professionally, if the Director-General of the Police is working professionally, there is no need to replace the Director-General at any time. But it's just some practice that's established. However, we have also challenged in this parliamentary inquiry request any further changes that followed this exchange, which indicate obvious political changes. All the most important functions in the police have been replaced by personnel that are obviously loyal to current ruling politicians, otherwise what is happening in practice would not be happening. This, however, is a direct involvement in procedures that can be very burdensome for both the largest customer in the government and for other policies in this government, which have also come under certain procedures. However, the SDS colleagues did not define themselves until they spoke of the necessity of raising the reputation of the police and the profession of police. Yeah, we're talking about that, too. But why did it happen that there is a fall, a violation of this reputation and trust between citizens and citizens? Why did this happen? As a result of this basic direction of this government, and as a result, it also affects the police to tackle the problems created by the spread of this epidemic with repression. With more repression than we would have expected in the past from the Slovenian police. And that's what people feel, that's what people feel. From here on out, their relationship with the police. And I do believe, but I've talked to several police officers, that of course it doesn't matter that people treat them this way, that they don't care, of course, that they're ashamed too many times when they act on the appearance of banal, banal, misdemeanors, if they are, disproportionate. So with much more repression than we'd expect. And we point out that this is the final result, and this is the final result of the politicisation of the Police, the true leadership of the Police; and then it is carried down to this policy of repression, because this government has decided to resolve these matters in this way. When will the repression take place? When some authority begins to lose some legitimacy. And legitimacy quickly fell in the hands of people – I am talking about legitimacy, not legality – quickly fell from the very beginning when this government took over power and got involved in these suspicious operations with protective equipment that have been pointing to possible exploitation since the beginning. I'm telling you, they're pointing at possible encroachments because the investigation is still ongoing. And that's what people just see. This is what people see and lose confidence on the one hand in power itself, and on the other hand in the measures that this authority exercises. And on the other hand, of course, they never applied the same vats to everyone. If Minister Koritnik was caught and Logar Minister Kustec at the time of the worst epidemic, when people were particularly sensitive, violating the decrees they had adopted would, of course, also provoke an aversion in people. As a result, this authority wanted and wanted to “smart” people with greater repression than expected in this country. Perhaps even with regard to the perception of Nova Slovenije that this investigation committee is involved in politicisation. Of course not. Quite the opposite. We are talking about the necessity of depoliticisation, and therefore we want to see political responsibility precisely because of the need to depoliticise the police after the ruling policy wants to get into all times of the police system. And when he mentioned his colleague Chernigoj, I understood it as some kind of excess that the Minister of Economy was detained in the investigation. No, for this very investigation, until politics got involved and some criminals were removed, has shown that police or criminals are doing their job professionally and that they do not make any difference in their work. It happened that both the director of the NPU and the criminalist who was directly investigating the case had to do so. However, I agree with Mr Montenegro's debate that the purpose of this commission of inquiry is to reveal the truth. Find the truth. The Commission of Inquiry is legitimate and I do not know where the biggest government party is angry, but when their Minister of Internal Affairs, in his first reaction to the announcement of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry, has made it very clear that the work of such a commission seems perfectly legitimate and will participate fully in the proceedings of this Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Jani Möderndorfer gets the first word. Get ready, Mr. Janez Moskritch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. Perhaps, however, there is a procedural proposal because SDS Members are coming to their seats, although it is problematic because it is still number 36, that is from 90 one third. We know that if we want to work in the National Assembly, at least 46 cards should be filed. God has shown mercy to you where we came from with this work in the National Assembly, but it only points to the work of a coalition that is not seriously doing its work, that this quorum must hold the opposition to them, that at least something seems to be happening in this national assembly. You can imagine this LMSH coming out right now, only four of them would be sitting in there. Catastrophe! Well, we're going to the investigative commission. If the times were normal, if the ordinary government were, every time, whatever the government was in power, it was not Janša's government, it would already be possible for the Knovs Institute, i.e. the Intelligence and Security Services Commission, to carry out that basic purpose and mission of this commission, and this is also the control of the repressive body we call the police today. However, this is not the case because, for some time now in this Knovs, the opposition does not have any majority at all, if we theoretically look at who the members are, otherwise we can say that there are 5 opposition Members in it, but because one of these opposition Members has signed an agreement on cooperation with this government, Knovs is actually a crippled body that cannot actually carry out his task. And that's why this commission of inquiry is so much more necessary to explore and do in peace the task that, at least in part, it can't even do in Knovs. Why is police supervision always needed? It is always needed primarily for this reason and can only be desired by any Minister of the Interior to sleep peacefully because it is a repressive body. These are people who have recently been able to use, in particular with special powers, the additional powers they have received under the Law on Infectious Diseases and Decisions, which give them additional power to actually now carry out health inspections, in terms of quarantine control, masking, measures and so on. We've come so far, the police are already writing sentences if someone's on the street. Then you know where we live and where we came from. That is why this oversight is so urgently needed, and such violations are far from what this commission wants to investigate. However, he wants to investigate how far politics has gone into the police structure of command and not just direction; in fact, what the Minister of the Interior can do. The fact is that this Minister of the Interior has already proved that he imagines the management of the Ministry of the Interior very much in his own way. For him, the concept of directing police work is a very broad concept if you can imagine what I'm trying to say. He doesn't just want to direct, he wants to give direct instructions. And because he can't, at least formally, give them informally. What does that look like? Simply, you activate a 10-year-old retired police officer, you put him in the post of Secretary of State, he becomes a political officer, and because you don't fit the Director-General, because again, the second time you call him, you put him at the end of the State Secretary for Director-General of the Police. You can imagine what this means for a journalist who does 20, 30 years of his journalistic work and then becomes involved in politics and becomes a political official and so on, works, does his job. And when he finishes his term, one way or another, irrelevantly, I'd like to become an independent journalist again. As a rule, the journalist does not approve of this, and such a journalist has very serious problems returning to his work circle normally. But that's right or wrong, today I'm not even gonna judge because it's not dark today, but let's make a comparison with a cop. A police officer works in his own kind professionally, does his job, even becomes a responsible official, a police officer let us say that we will understand what we are actually saying, not in the real sense of the word political. And when he's finished his career, because we know that cops have the opportunity to retire early because they have a benified internship, he's going to retire. Then he's retired for 10 years. There's a lot going on in the middle. Policy, legislation and so on are changing, and this officer becomes Secretary of State. And as Secretary of State, he doesn't have any sympathy for certain ideological views, which, personally, doesn't bother me if we don't get along the wrong way, as long as he's Secretary of State. But when the Secretary of State becomes the Director-General of the Police, well, here, of course, everything stops, because that means that we get ideologically cleaned, cleaned, verified personnel to the post of Director-General. I don't remember being single when another CEO had a transition like the one he had. I don't remember the case, but we've already made it clear to many of the Director-General that he could be indoctrinated in one way or another, ideologically, from a political point of view. But as evident as this Secretary of State is, it is more than clear to me that he has no confidence whatsoever. Not because he'd be a bad person, no, but because he's ideologically contaminated to the end, because he won't convince me to work professionally anymore. Moreover, the Minister, in whom the Director-General of the Police was once his State Secretary and is already used to picking up the phone and ordering what needs to happen, will do the same later when he becomes the Director-General of the Police or now when he is. What's the CEO doing down there?Oh, my God! Of course, he works in the name of the profession, and we all know that he can also have an ideological charge. This party, this government, when it was not yet a government when it was in opposition, did something similar on other authorities. Remember what she was doing with the PKK in the previous term. She wanted to shut it down and said it was just enough to have the Court of Auditors because we don't need the KPK. Then she turned the board around and said we had a KPK, okay, and she was defending the new KPK president because they didn't like the last one, and they liked it. But then there was another twist. This turned out that if they had previously said that the Court of Auditors is the one who can perform the work of the KPK, they do not now like the management staff of the Court of Auditors and want to head it. And they're not even hiding it. And they do all things according to the order that they can: even more, they bring upon him, for the first time in history, the police. What should an average citizen think about all these gymnastic bras they do?Oh, my God! What should the police think is fair? That the police did their job right? It's damn clear to me that the cops are just doing their job. The police are essentially a hierarchical profession, where they know it's a command system, and what it means when you refuse command and refuse to comply with it. And that's why it's our intention to protect the police in some way, officer. Because what's happening right now, I have a lot of acquaintances in the police circle, and I tell you, they're sick of watching the police sign go all the way around and over with political walking and similar measures and moves. It just won't last long. And if we are talking about the epidemic, that we need confidence if we are to achieve cooperation among citizens in respect of the measures and the epidemic, then the same is true of the need to achieve a level of confidence in the police. However, the level of confidence in the police can only be achieved in one way – to achieve transparency of work and that it is very clear, with clear parameters, without any particular grimsiad, very clearly controlled. Every policeman is very much in control if he knows that in the end he will also get confirmation that he has done his job well, successfully and very well. Not the kind of control Mr. Mahnic wanted when he came to the then director of Bobnar and threatened her that if she did not, then he should be aware that her career would be very short. And when he asked her to do something that he didn't have to do without marriage. And when the moment of truth came on the day, very soon after the change of power, it was more than clear, more than clear what Mahnic really wanted. Moreover, he came to the post of Secretary of State for National Security. I'm sorry, I'm a national when I have to tell someone who's the advisor to the Prime Minister for National Security. I'm really embarrassed. It reminds me of Mr Salieri's description when he described Mozart in Amadeus. It is interesting how certain parables fly on their own. There's only one difference. Mr. Mahnic is no Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. That's the only difference that's drastic and fatal. Let me also say that I had the opportunity to cooperate with the police on another commission of inquiry at another time, not at a time when the government of Janez Janša ruled. And all I can tell you is that there was a lot going on, but the police were aware of it, and they've made things right. And there's nothing wrong with this surveillance being done. I am talking, of course, about the laundering of so-called Iranian money, for which the current President of the Government continues to scream as a five-year-old child, that there has been money laundering since long ago, when we all know that it has not really been there. But there was something else, yes, the suspension of organ duty over the money laundering process. This was, but not in the bank, sad, but where we should work elsewhere – the Money Laundering Office, the Bank of Slovenia and similar authorities. And finally, with officials like the Prime Minister, ministers, secretary of state, you won't believe it, even the National Security Advisor was the one who left the duty of conduct. And these are the things that this commission needs to find out whether this is a serious political responsibility in leadership and also in making decisions about a repressive body that we call police. Until this control is very seriously carried out in a very transparent way, it is so long an illusion that citizens will trust a common policeman, rather than a functioning policeman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Since Mr Moškrič has checked out, Mr Robert Pavšič is the next debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I am particularly concerned that in the opposition we were forced to set up three commission of inquiry within just a year in view of the acute situation in this country. And all three things are critical, very worrying, systemic. But since it is impossible to focus on this systemicity in a short time, then we need to focus more on what is most exciting. Human resources exchanges are not all controversial, certainly not even when it comes to setting people up on a trust basis; however, those who affect the functioning of the whole system are very controversial. And then, as a human, you ask yourself two questions — why this change of work and with whom is a staff replacement made. And when we follow them, even at key positions in the last year, we can only wonder what this ingenuity is like when we look for reasons. And today, of course, it is difficult to challenge by coalition Members the request to set up an investigative commission; and I understand the silence. So far, we have only heard opinions, and even those who have been on the side of the coalition are very paradoxical to protect the NPU, because it notes now, before that, our funding. Who's funding us? Rock Snow White? Diana Djijic? That is precisely why and also why you requested replacements in the highest positions. And that is why the opposition must give moral support, not to the police, and to the National Investigation Office; and also to investigate all the disadvantages regarding the acquisition of protective and medical equipment. There may also be inconsistencies that we have been able to monitor in the media today regarding the disappearance of equipment in the Maribor UKC. But we can see how this human resources philosophy is actually done by hitting people like a dominion or like a bowling ball until you get to the right person. Let's just remember a little, because one year isn't that far. NIJZ – you replaced Mrs Pirnat, Mr Ergen, to see Mr Krek. At Furs, you got your hands on the director because he didn't want to interrupt the search for fan supplies. You replaced him. On Surs, an unauthorized, expert group of Mr Lakhovnik, demanded sensitive data, bare data. Since the director couldn't give it away, he couldn't give it away, so you replaced it. While you had very legitimate reasons for replacing the Director in the Police, when the police failed to stop the investigation against the current Minister of Economy, the Director resigned, after which he was responsible for the award of employment at Darsa, who was currently under the New Slovenia domain and their former Vice-President of the Party. He was also replaced by a minister because he had resigned; but unfortunately with the same person. One of the same ministers, I hope he signed the contract twice; or he doesn't need the contract. If I were twice, I'd swear once again in this national council. And then finally, at the National Bureau of Investigation, already the fourth director, the fourth leader in a year. This points to major difficulties in managing and directing the police, particularly from a political point of view. To your big problems, probably the last man. Well, once someone bends down, things get easier, but still, some things can't be stopped. That's how we unlocked phones in Germany, even though it was alleged that they just didn't call but I don't know what else. No, it's not that simple, and it's not all black and white, far from it. And the guilt will eventually be determined by some other authorities, but these matters must be investigated without political influence. And what is happening now is a direct attempt to influence the investigating authorities. Then, in our views, we heard about politicalization, about the need to set up an investigative commission. And this is from a party from which we were given illegal insight into records that took place under political direction by the former Prime Minister of the Government. Then it was clearly proved that it was not true and that it was only a statistical phenomenon, but it had to be very politicized and used for its political agenda. But this man who pointed out this probably didn't apologize for the fact that it wasn't true after some of the current advisors to the government for national security. And this man is now running for President of the National Assembly. The whole circle spins fast. It is not only the issue of NPUs, it is not only the police, Sursa, Fursa, NIJZ, the Court of Auditors, which could be listed indefinitely; it is a brutal issue of the current ruling policy that is completely affected in every marriage of the public professional and business council in that country. And you're in such a hurry. And that's what we should all be worried about, and that's what we should be worried about. I believe it's hard to listen to things like this. Each government carries out some human resources exchanges, but each thing has its own limits. And, unfortunately, you've crossed your limit too many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Since there are very few reported debaters, I will read everything. Mr Predrag Baković, followed by Mrs Jerca Korča and as the last mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It is my opinion that this parliamentary inquiry is necessary and, as such, I welcome it. Let me first identify myself with regard to staffing. I somehow understand, and it's also acceptable that any government team that comes into position will replace a few key people who are trusted. Today we have heard many times, and I will point out that in one bad year, the third Director-General of the Police and the fourth Director of the National Investigation Office have indicated that something is happening in the Police as well. If we look at it, the Director-General of the Tatjana Bobnar Police Department is known in police circles as an exceptional expert, both for the so-called police law on crime and for anything else, extremely appreciated, also popular. Then it is interesting why the next Police Director-General, Mr Travner, resigned. He resigned directly after the house investigations carried out by the National Investigation Office relating to the determination of the suspicion of the offence of the acquisition of protective equipment. And if we look at it that way, he gave up because the police were doing their job. Since the police carried out several house investigations on the basis of orders issued by the investigating judge, the judicial branch of the authorities, then they also detained the persons. And here I must say that no one can assess whether the persons who were detained at the time for carrying out these investigations were unduly detained. Those who say that do not know or know very poorly police law, if I may say so, and in particular the conditions for which a person may be detained under the Criminal Procedure Act. And in such investigations such detention is almost necessary. It is quite interesting that because the police did their job, Mr Travner, Director-General of the Police, resigned. Then came Mr Jurič, and he left and Mr Anton Olay, who is still there today, came. As far as the National Investigation Office is concerned, as I said before, we have a fourth leader in one year. Very quickly, as we took up this mandate, some pressure began and some of the revelations came to Mr Mužinič by the then opposition, which is now in the coalition, and some persecution began. And then it soon became clear why it happened. Although he was able to prove in court that he had been illegally resolved, the situation is still the same as it is today. Mr Igor Lamberger, whom I know personally, has barely been replaced, including Mr Leprechaun, although they are fine operatives, but they have not stayed in this job for long. And now Mrs Petra Grah Lazar, who I do not know, I will not comment on either. But as far as I know, it doesn't come from the police, and it doesn't come from some kind of knowledge that a man like that should actually have. You know, the most stressful thing for such operational services is the exchange and such exchanges that have taken place, and as often as they have happened. The NPU can't afford to replace four leaders in such a short time. I know what the findings will be – the NPU has carried out or investigated a very small number of crimes, one per year for crimes, or whatever these numbers have already been operated on in the past. I can tell you this: the NPU is not investigating a chicken thief or I don't know what it is, but it is investigating extremely complex cases, extremely complicated crimes, difficult, linked quite often to connections from abroad. There's time here for another dimension. In the views we have heard, we have heard various things, including that we have heard that we as proponents of this investigation are somehow complaining and that is why we are also instituting an investigation because the minister was doing his job and we would like him not to do it. It's about directions. This is very flat-rate, and here I want to make it clear that everyone will understand. The Minister may and must give guidance. It's all good and good up here. However, there are three types of orientations, as set out in the Police Organisation and Work Act, which are in fact defined somewhere in some medium-term police development plan, and then there are annual guidelines relating to the development of an annual police work plan and individual orientations relating to the execution of individual police tasks and actions where this is necessary due to immediate action and the resolution of some shortcomings. However, there is also a condition here that these guidelines do not apply to those police procedures whose orientation has been taken by the state prosecutor. The Attorney General is the one who takes over the matter of criminal offences at the time he is informed of a crime. And, of course, here is where the cooperation protocol between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, which, as I hear, is changing in some way, and it can also become problematic, and so far, as far as the prosecution's information and guidance on the investigation of these crimes have been carried out at a good level. And then it is the easiest thing to say – Yes, the minister can and must give direction and you do not agree here that he gives them. That's not what this is about. It is a matter of giving and giving direction, but in those matters that the Prosecutor has taken over, the Prosecutor takes over as soon as he is aware of it, and all the time thereafter he keeps his hands on these cases, he must not give these guidelines. What happened then began to set up working groups. One working group has been set up to successfully manage irregular migration and have been appointed to this group, as I have already said, by the former Police Director-General Mrs Tatjana Bobnar, who is, as I have said, an expert in criminal matters; Mr Lindav, the first criminalist, who is also extremely professionally valued, is successful. I know what you're going to say – and then so much better, it will be easier to do so after illegal migrations. But that's the excuse a cat on his tail brings. And, of course, for the first and long time, the first pear Mrs Vesna Drole, who has performed this task extremely well and for a long time, as I have said. And this is now a dream team of this team to manage this migration; and in fact you have wasted the knowledge and expertise these people have in various areas, so that we have a working group that is actually studying the issue of illegal migration. It is also interesting to see another working group dealing with the resolution of backlogs on the Ljubljana Police Administration. You don't have to be in any working group to figure out why there's such a backlog. Of course it's about malnutrition. Here I agree with my colleague Grims, who initially said the police were malnourished. Of course, it has been stored for a long time, not only under the current government, even in previous, ours, if you wish. The police were fed all the time and, of course, there are delays. And there is no science here how, in what way this matter needs to be resolved, but only by strengthening the staffing of the Ljubljana Police Administration in order to ensure adequate means to ensure that the relevant other resources are also provided; and, of course, the backlogs will no longer be as much as they would have been. You know, there's a regular work surveillance plan for police stations and police administrations in the police department. Every time it's one, two, three, or I don't know how many police administrations where everything checks out. Expertise is being checked, it is being verified how they worked in all areas, and they have recently verified compliance with deadlines. That is why we do not need any working group, and this can be determined by regular controls that there has been a backlog and in what way. Of course, certain measures are also being imposed to eliminate these backlogs. The establishment of a working group, it really seems to me, as I have already said in my position, is that certain people go on the side track and then do something that actually doesn't make much sense. I believe that at the end of this term, if it lasts, or the next, we will find out whether there will be no human resources support on the Ljubljana Police Administration, that these backlogs will be the same or even bigger, whether we have a working group or not. And all the things that I have listed now, of course, indicate that this parliamentary inquiry that we are talking about today is really necessary, necessary and that we may only somehow come to the key conclusions and put things in our place. Last but not least by finding out where the legislation needs to be amended. This is the last part that I find extremely useful not to be abused and that the work of the police would be even more effective than it is. But the police have not only been effective in the last year, but they have been effective in the past. And that someone would now take credit for getting the police in line or that the police weren't okay before, I think it's over. So much for now, and we're probably going to respond in some kind of replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Jerca Korče. Get ready as the last mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all your colleagues and friends! I hope that most of this debate is being monitored by offices because this debate and this commission of inquiry are more important than any other matter that has taken place in the National Assembly. Why? Because we're talking about the police, which is one of the foundations of every country. And the key to operating virtually all the systems we have in the country is trust. Trust in both politics and confidence in the functioning of the police, which we are talking about today. And if a citizen trusts, that means that a certain institution also believes. And this should be practically in the interest of the whole policy, and we see that this government has come up with exactly the opposite logic, and this is the logic that trust in systems needs to be broken. How is it that, when trust falls, it is practically possible for this government to see itself if it is capable of self-reflection when we are talking about an epidemic? When there is no trust between citizens and citizens, then we have a serious problem; and this problem is evident in the epidemic if you want, even in the victims. When citizens trust in some important institutions in the country, they ultimately recognise the legitimacy of existence; the legitimacy of the existence of an individual institution increases with confidence. And the question is how policy works in these respects. Or for the good of the country, of course, by strengthening trust; or by using authority for some entirely different purposes that we are witnessing today. And the question is, how does politics work? And this policy led by the SDS has long since decided that trust needs to be broken down, so that, of course, it can run its own way through these systems. The very attitude of the leaders, who later, of course, occupied the cities, proved to be virtually predate to the appointment of this government. We know how Mr Mahnic demanded data beyond his powers while he was still in office; and when the Director-General, who had been professionally involved in the police at various levels for 27 years, argued against it and even told him that the policy would not tighten the police's deadlines, he kind of burned to think about his future. Of course, it was information from the SDS financing investigation. Then we had Mr. Travner, who had so little to call for supplies and asked about some business. Then we had the minister's marching around the center when the protests were just for some media show surrounded by some armed special forces. Then we had an affair of onions and bananas. The fact that high political officials behave in this way shows how they feel about systems and about this country. Yes, then the working groups were established. They could be named for the withdrawal of personnel or for the withdrawal of disturbing personnel, so that those who do not respond, regardless of the achievements they have from the past, may be cleaned up, regardless of the fact that they are professional personnel who have been working within the police for years and years. And the question is, do these actions go in the direction of building trust, or do they go in the opposite direction? Of course, in this government it is clear, it is the opposite of logic. And why is this government doing this? Because trust in institutions is particularly important for democratic power, but not for those non-democratic regimes. However, the logic must be the opposite, that is to break trust, and let it be in any independent institution that is watching over the conduct of politics, and if we are talking about the Court of Auditors, if we are talking about the courts, if we are talking about the police. Why? Because when trust breaks down, that policy can do what it pleases. And if any authority rises up and wants to perform its function independently and in accordance with what it is set up, then it is either media-tortured or discredited in any other way. I rarely recall in the past that so systematically - of course, there have been some rejections of individuals - but that any authority in such a systematic way would allow itself to demolish the institutions that this country has established in order to have transparent control over the functioning of politics, I do not recall such cases from the past. Today, we have entered a blind street where this policy, which is at the top of everything, at the top of the pyramid is SDS, systematically interferes with systems that, in some ways, were considered unto some extent untouchable - on purpose, so that matters were not politicized and that the time frame of policy did not interfere with this sense of sweetness, so that any system can be guided as it wants. And of course, these systems reveal the benefits of these governments, or, above all, these governments, and that some things need to be stopped. And if anyone thinks with their own head, if anyone advocates a professional position, they put him somewhere in the work force. What's more, we've seen that when one of the names on the investigation went to the crime scene, he was pretty quick to get his shit together. So it's going the way it is – be quiet, otherwise you'll be removed from your position, publicly clouded. And I believe that a lot of people, because it's in human nature, are going back. And it is necessary to follow and always follow that it is the police who are following the interests of citizens, not politicians, not bureaucrats, and not least the police's own interests as institutions, but only citizens and citizens. And so, unfortunately, we had to go to another investigative committee, which may seem to act as irrelevant, but it is one of the most important. Because if we don't protect the police's independence from tightening the deadlines so brutally, then we don't get it right. And I'm wondering if this government and the leaders who are so gravely interfering with this system are trying to frame it in their own image, especially to protect their own interests and to break some of the investigations that are ongoing, if anyone asks what the long-term consequences of such short-sighted protection of their own chairs are, if you will. And once trust has been lost just because someone has decided to walk or scrutinize the system, of course, after someone else has lost that trust, it is poorly written to the country in the future. But of course this does not interest the ruling people, because the view is very shortsighted and incompetent sightings over the fence, but we do care. And that's why we're going to do this investigation, and I believe we're going to show and prove what was going on, what was going on, what was going on with that government. I do not pretend that someone will take responsibility for this, because it is simply not in the political dictionary of this government when they take power or enter politics. However, I hope that we are working primarily for the future and to demonstrate to the system that there is a large majority of the healthy core policy in this country, which nevertheless understands that some things need to be protected and left to their sovereignty, even when we are on the wallpaper of these investigative bodies; and that this is good. Because it is only in this way that the state can stand, that is to say that we are all committed to building confidence and allowing these authorities to carry out their task independently of who is in power. And above all, we allow them to investigate everything, regardless of political colour, regardless, but it is the President of the Government, but it is a minister, but it is an ordinary citizen if you want. These systems have to work because they work for the citizens, not because someone has sat on a chair and seems untouchable to him. On the contrary. That's why our predecessors set up these systems. And if we want to preserve and strengthen democracy, then we will go this way. Of course, this is not an intimate option of SDS, but I still believe or is a healthy part of a policy that feels the opposite and is aware of its responsibilities that have been entrusted to us. And in this light, I also see this investigation, and I believe it will come to conclusions that are already clear from the satellite today. But it is right for citizens and citizens to see what kind of business or how this policy, which has been in power or still in power, has tightened the hands of certain systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Thank you very much. He's got the word "magic" as the last one. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! This debate has proved perfectly how well Murphy's law applies. If you take the proposal from the investigator himself and then add what those who support him have now said in the debate, this is the perfect confirmation of Murphy's law, by which the most highly eloquent words are usually followed by the most obstinate political interests. One of the editorials said earlier that I had mutilated the investigator's basic message. Only those who propose can do so. And the proponents were able to mutilate this investigator's basic message in its entirety, and then this is the only thing they really did. I was just doing it. What did they hit past? First of all, the basic evidence in this investigation is that the minister is clearly given instructions or guidelines. Anyone who reads at least the law governing these relations within the Ministry of the Interior and the Police would know that not only does the Minister have the right to give instructions and guidelines, but he even owes them to him. This is said to be something you read to the minister because he was law-abiding. That's great. That's for a ten. This, however, is called a disgrace to the basic message of an investigator, a respected colleague. Then, let's say inside as a material you're describing who the police or the NPU was, think of it as a conversation with Minister Hoys. The list, that'll prove it. Yeah, great. In fact, it could be proof of who he wasn't. If someone was invited and refused to come to the minister, he would probably have had to answer something, but this is a matter of discipline within the system, not one of the investigators; but not who was in the conversation, the people of God. How are things supposed to work? And here we are with what really bothers you. It really bothers you that the police are really starting to work as well and as quality as the police. And now you're panicking. Because what happened in the past? In the past, in past mandates, police have in some cases been abused since independence. You know, we used to have a human crutch chasing an internal enemy. And some things, except in this light, simply cannot be explained. Like one of the MPs who resented his fellow left-wingers, the computer was seized under some pretense. And look, the police lost their computer, copy, backup, and all the evidence. Have you suggested, colleagues, any investigators on this? Yeah, you didn't do that because it was about you. Then let's say the bombings of the police into parliament when there were some investigations. None of the proceedings in court were completed by a single conviction, which is said to have been an obvious intimidation and form of pressure, which means a pure abuse of the police. Even various house searches, look, the media found out about that house investigation half an hour before it was done, so they could get there and set up cameras so they could record. Do you know what that is? This is totalitarianism, called police abuse for pressure, to intimidate a political opponent. And that's what you support, that's what you're worried about, because it's no longer possible for you to Satanize anyone who disagrees with you. I've already mentioned the last of such a sinister case. Police incursion into the seat of the Slovenian Democratic Party a few years ago, suddenly. And all the media knew that, everyone was there, everyone was filming. What was the contents? Pure fishing, unconstitutional, illegal, purely political totalitarianism – with your blessing, ladies and gentlemen. And because it's no longer within your reach, yes, and now it's a panic. Even your judge, no matter what anyone thinks of her, Dr. Jasna Murgel then said publicly that she would never sign it. The eccentric abuse of the judiciary, the police, the law enforcement agencies, all the prosecutions you want, the institutions of the system. And because it's no longer possible for you, but you don't know, but now it's a panic, so the investigator is going to cover it up, and you're going to cover it up. What you've been talking about today. The first is, if there is any basis for this proposal, ignorance and ignorance of the law. The Minister is obliged to give instructions, he is obliged to participate, he is obliged to talk, he is obliged to direct, he is obliged to provide guidance. He is obliged, ladies and gentlemen, by law, because he is also responsible. If they had read the law, they would have known that the minister was also responsible for his field and for the situation in that area. By the way, the situation in this period is much better than it was in previous mandates, so all recognition to the Minister. If we move forward, what double criteria did you have here today? In the meantime, it was also suggested that the problem was what the NPU would investigate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard a single one that would count a good, resounding end to the investigation conducted by the NPU, which would end with the conviction of some known criminals, a criminal association, anything. But you all know how many cases there have been when they've been making intensely repulsive pressures of this kind, including house searches. Anyone who doesn't know what a house investigation is, it's one of the most brutal interventions into privacy. Thus it was also defined by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in one of its provisions. But nothing ever happened after that. None of those investigations ended with a rebuttal conviction. So much for this strong NPU. And now, because leadership has changed, because it's trying to get things in the way that the NPU is at least roughly responding and doing what is right, it's a real persecution of big crime, but it's a problem. And then he packs it up and hides it for me, I don't know what. The highlight of all of this when you cover it up is what you already had as a red thread today at the previous point – export masks. People of God, when this government took responsibility, what did you do? Not only have you not taken care of Slovenian citizens and citizens, you have obtained nothing, even more. Another million 200 thousand masks were exported to China as aid. You even took a picture with him. It's a disgrace to all of us. This is the continuation of that policy. For strangers, nothing at all. Then the rifle runs into the corn. And when the next one comes and saves in the total chaos that you've caused, now you're hoping to chat when you're getting rid of what to get rid of, but that's all from crime to I don't know what. Shame on you, devil. And also responsibility, you said before – responsibility. Take responsibility and repent out. You left Slovenia with no protective equipment. Do you know when you went to this export? 13 February 2020, when there was already a hot spot in Italy. And now you'll talk and then you'll be responsible. Get out of here, all of you, back off the set, get some rest if you're responsible. You have so much to say about responsibility. Then let's say double criteria, that's also interesting in a relationship. The problem is for Dr. Olaya, because his entire life as a police officer, a career officer, was extremely successful, at least I don't know if he had any special black spots, and he was a secretary of state for a while, and then he took over the lead of the Police, in which he worked his whole life. So, a real man in the right place. And the police are doing well at this time, I hope, no one will object. Then what's the problem?Oh, my God! But you're a problem. But beware, the same man, specifically Möderndorfer, who spoke about this earlier, was a Member at the time when Mr Goran Klemenčič was first Secretary of State, then went to KPK, where he was a neutral and independent judge and, of course, made a pig political affair; and finally he was Minister again. But that's okay?Oh, my God! Did Mr. Möderndorfer protest at the time? Well done, if you would. No, that's what happened to his voice. Let's get a little less bullshit, that's all too much. Then it's the next thing. Judge Murgel, I respect her because she was right, despite the fact that we were ideologically very on opposite sides, but it was the right thing to do. But the people of God, the judicial branch of power is supposed to be completely independent of politics. The judicial branch of the Authority must be concerned, even by definition, about the appearance of neutrality. One day is the judge, the next day a member of the National Assembly of a political party, the next day after the expiry of the term of office of a judge again. Ay, ay, ay, did Mr. Möderndorfer protest anything? It's not. You see, these are double criteria. And it's like they're in front of each other and yes, sorry, this smells like heaven. Let's move on. Speaking of double standards. Earlier, much has been said about what the police should do, the issue of caring for violence, violence, attitudes towards women and so on has also been mentioned. I agree with that. I'll sign it. Violence against women must be strictly sanctioned. But, ladies and gentlemen, have you suggested any investigators on this subject? It was March 8th, a day that was symbolic of women's equality. March 25 – Mother's Day. We could have an investigator on this day. How could it have happened in the case of a pharmacist that all the evidence had been destroyed and that it had expired, that the deadline had been delayed, even though they had been warned at this time on the institutions which would have been obliged to do so; and then the evidence was destroyed overnight. And just in that case, you won't believe it. In no other case did anything like this happen, just in this case. Did you perhaps call for equality of women, an example of an investigator who would decide on political responsibility to do so? Yeah, you didn't. Because the person who would make this happen is very close to you. Sometimes you're financed or sometimes you're connected to it. That's the way it is in practice. So that I don't continue to say anything about any kind of kinship or relationship. And then you say there's a problem with human resources replacements, and then you tell me where they've been. I told you what you left behind before, and be ashamed of you. A complete disaster, empty warehouses, you have done nothing to protect the Slovenes and Slovenians, all citizens and citizens. The fundamental thing that should be independent of all ideology, of everything and what you owe. I think we should even be criminally responsible for this. But that's just my opinion. You didn't do anything. You have knowingly abandoned that course of action. And that was in all areas of social life, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why they're human resources exchanges now, because they're trying to fix and solve what they can. Human resources exchanges are due to the catastrophic legacy you left behind. What kind of legacy this was, I've told you before, I can work it out. Mrs. Bobnar, who you're so defending, what was one of her main projects? To keep the LGBT stations safe. That's why they had meetings, meetings, all sorts of things that people had to prepare. That's what they told me, one and the other, you won't believe, even some of your colleagues who are ideologically purely somewhere else, like me, who love Joseph Broz, and if you want, they're still in the police force today, because they're from the previous system. But they too were furious to the end because of what was happening because they realized that it was an unacceptable ideology of the Police. And this has happened to your voices, ladies and gentlemen, with your knowledge; and now you are defending it. Now that it's gone, that's the problem. Once again, I'm just wondering at what point in this process the blue police uniforms would trade for pink spiders. And then you're telling me here today why cops don't have the reputation they need to have. But how can they do that if you constantly make a fuss that every legitimate police action has been proven, verified controlled pressure and terror over the public and any other nonsense we've been listening to here for months. Take a look at what's going on elsewhere in Europe. Take a look at the police work systems elsewhere in Europe. Take a look at what a French police intervention under Macron looks like against its citizens and citizens. I've seen them, you've got all these videos on the Internet, all you want when you've been beating people with meters of wheelchairs, not saying what's been going on, and the bullets that were fired, and then they shot somebody's eyes, dead and wounded, and I don't know what else. Here it was successfully transmitted, extremely professionally, even when there were indeed riots that you had been horrifying for months, and then you distanced yourself from them when the matter was completely lost. And even then, the police acted extremely well. Has there been any worse consequences? It's not. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen. We have a police officer who is currently working under such pressure as you are now, in fact, under cover, defending the police, producing to make some kind of look, what terrible police are doing. The police are just following the rules, working in accordance with the law, and I'm saying it works very well. And also these instructions, which go in the direction of not going in the direction of severe punishment, but also of warning, are correct in my firm belief because this is confirmed by any European practice. It's not the most effective system that begs you to write a fine at all costs, which has been typical of us for inspections and for the police in the past two mandates. But it is the most effective prevention when one knows that they can spot it, knows that they can catch it; and then it doesn’t matter whether it’s a severe punishment or not. It also makes you know that there's control here. Then it works preventively. And this is where we need to go, not only in the police field as such, but also in the area of inspection services. What happens to us when the police and the inspection stand in front of the inn, but not at this point when they're closed, but it was happening, as you know, in the last term; and waiting for a mistake to be made, and then they will pass the draconian punishment. That's unacceptable. Do you know what inspection and police work in Austria looks like? They come and they warn you. And they shall come to see if thou hast heeded the warning: and if thou hast not, they shall warn again: and in the third, if thou dost not heed, thou shalt have a decision. And only in the fourth will there be an orc punishment if you don't respect the matter. But for this reason, they also help, say, young entrepreneurs, because they know you can make a mistake, even in such chaos of regulations. All right, now it's supposed to be reduced by luck, but it's still a chaos of regulations in Slovenia. Therefore, there is a need to work more on prevention and less on severe punishment, which I personally agree with. This does not mean, of course, that if there comes a single stroke, 500 pieces and wants to be organised in Ljubljana, with the silent support of a large part of the opposition, because they feel untouchable because they think the police will not act. It is right to act, and it is also right to use force, of course in a controlled form, that there are no worse consequences. It is said that the smallest quantity is used, but in such a way that success is ensured. That's why it's the police. However, you must be aware that the police are working today in extremely difficult circumstances and thus the ministry as a whole. And this is to be taken into account when assessing their work, not only with regard to this unfortunate export, your export of masks to China and the transfer of masks to China, then to empty bags, when things were being resolved, but today it is obvious; but also otherwise. Today is a pandemic, a pandemic is not just our problem, it is a European problem, so it requires a different relationship at the borders, requires different engagement within the borders of the country, these are tasks that are some coordinated at European level, some at our own. All of this must be managed and implemented by the police with the current human resources force. At the same time, the police still have a duty to take care of the border, where there is still the same situation as it was. The lower the number of illegal migrants last year than last year, of course, this is pure manipulation because they walked for almost five months last year, and the rest was under the cover of pandemics and lockdowns in neighbouring countries. As a result, the number is lower, and it is not essential. And if that goes up, of course, things are going to get a lot sharper. And they could make it easier and more effective if you, as the opposition who are now here in the Holy Land – to tell her how our police had to do this – allowed the Slovenian army to help protect their borders in order to help the police to obtain those minimum police powers for effective assistance. You've turned it down twice. Now here we hear nonsense about how Slovenian police are not aware of what they are obliged to do but that they have failed in full and in the same way. You're responsible, nobody else, not the police. However, the matter will have an absurd situation when foreign police come to the Slovenian borders. But this will be better than if you let the Slovenian army, whose mission is to protect the Slovenian borders, make it possible to do so with their votes? Is that gonna be better? I don't think so. But that's your responsibility. Of course, the situation is absurd with regard to this entire investigator. Both the ministry and the police are working better in this mandate, in difficult circumstances, significantly harder, the only ones comparable to and directly after the period of independence, but working successfully, very successfully. All the things that were necessary were successfully done by the police and the ministry with her; and this bothers you. Therefore, this matter is completely absurd and must be rejected in its entirety. Of course, you can get, you have enough votes, you will have an investigator, but this investigator will be the only mix of fog, in order to confuse the essence, which is simple – that the ministry and the minister work well and that the police work in extremely difficult circumstances, nourished, resulting from a long series of years, at least two mandates, in too few, in extremely difficult circumstances. And that's why Slovenian cops deserve all the credit and all the congratulations. And personally, I'd be happy to say it to them myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Pavšič signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, first let me base the replica. Mr Grims referred to the previous item on the agenda and mentioned masks and mask exports to China four times. Mr Grims, if you're throwing me and my colleagues out of Parliament and telling us to get back together, if I use your words, then I can tell you, too, that you're a great liar. I'd like to finish this once and for all, but I know I won't let you do it again until you pass out; we've explained the story of the mask donation a number of times. Donation of masks was of a private nature. All the Republic of Slovenia had with this government was to allow these masks to be transported to China; and nothing else. And then the People's Republic of China was so grateful to us that she donated 20 caregivers and a whole bunch of protective and medical equipment. With such manipulations, and, now I'm going to say, you're going to achieve the opposite of what you wanted or wanted. And stop, please, repeating this mantra once again, even if you believe it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Mr. Pavšič, focus on the replica of your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President, because I'm actually done. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Baković has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Thank you very much. This reaction, which we have just witnessed, actually convinces me that this commission of inquiry is necessary and necessary. The words “speak out”; I don't know why I would have fallen out of this Parliament, Mr Grims. I also do not expect this from you because you have been democratically elected and sit here and defend your views. I'm not gonna let you tell me to get out. And what you have now is unacceptable and ugly. I'm gonna say it again. You probably didn't get me right. The Minister may and shall give guidance and instructions. There are three types, I've told them three. The latter are also for individual cases, but not for those taken over by the prosecutor and led by the prosecutor. In this case, however, it was a matter of giving direction to see certain things relating to specific crimes. And that is unacceptable, the Minister could have used a second piece in order to exercise control over the implementation of a certain procedure in a particular crime which he has in Article 5 of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. But he did not use it, but he was directing the individual act for which the prosecutor was informed and he became the guardian of it. That's what I'm talking about. And now it's casual to say that we prevent or say that if the minister works by law, it's not right, and then we're conducting this investigation, then it's over. I have to take the cops to the defense. The police officers who are here today were also before 13 March 2020. Before that there were the same people, some are now in other jobs. And I have to take it to the dam to do it right today, but then it's not, so it's not back. She's doing fine all the time. But it is something that is as far as politics now deals with the police, but it has been gone for a long time; and that is not right. And it is not right for operational services to be subjected to such pressures and exchanges as are being carried out. And that's the end of it, because I can see that I'm already being warned by the clock. These reports that we left empty warehouses; okay, there were empty warehouses, it was full of cash registers. After the epidemic, there will be empty warehouses and empty cash registers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Mr. Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President. Completely calm, without any panic in the opposition parties, we collected signatures and filed a request for the establishment of this commission of inquiry. And after the reactions of a representative of the largest government party, who also manages the internal affairs department and thus the police, it is now apparent that we have done the right thing, because I do not know why anyone would, in the context of some of the arguments set out in this proposal to set up an investigative commission, indicate that some of them will also have to be confirmed in the investigation itself, but I believe that we will be more or less easily, but why such an outbreak of nervousness, the instigation of the opposition from Parliament, even from the country?Oh, my God! Yeah, that's probably because if I make it a little bit easier, we got the cats on the tail. Since the only thing that Mr Grims has failed to deny, but to confirm twice in his implementation, is that the Minister has the right and the legal basis to direct the work of the police. Yes, and here we join you, Sir Grimes, indeed have this right. But that's all you've said about the contents of this commission of inquiry. Nothing else touched the content of this requirement for the establishment of an investigative commission, nothing. You went somewhere, I don't know where, in history, the crucifixion, and you didn't deny any argument about the allegations that were in the request for the establishment of an investigative commission, or one. Of course, the Minister has the full right and the legal basis to direct the work of the police and to direct the work of the police. But is he obliged to do so, or does the legal basis influence the course of specific investigative procedures? That's what's in there, my respectable colleague. Does that have a right? You say the police are doing well; we agree. Whether a minister or a politician has this right, has the right to obstruct, obstruct, even prevent individual investigative procedures, we ask. And we are looking for answers in the content of this inquiry commission because there are so many indications that this is happening; and, of course, in the procedures that concern the SDS client, in particular the area of SDS financing, and in the investigation of the acquisition of protective medical equipment. Because it is clear how criminals withdraw from individual procedures and they are suffering from some working groups for areas they have never had anything to deal with. And these are according to your instructions to be given by the minister. However, it is fully evident from all of this when we report on the staffing of the establishment of a clear axis of loyalty and also of client ownership from the President of the Government to the National Investigation Office, the criminal police, the uniformed police, all with one goal – to have full control over the procedures I mention. And, of course, I'm afraid that there are others; we probably don't know all about them. The Commission of Inquiry here will be able to discover much from those whom we will invite to testify, and from those from whom we will request certain documents, they are obliged to do so. Finally, I didn't even want to tell one short story that I actually want to illustrate and reinforce what we say all the time – that it is a political impact on certain investigative procedures. And I'm going to tell one story that didn't happen in an unknown place at an unknown time; it's after real events. And I'm going to cover up the names, I'm going to cover up the locations and functions, and I'm going to cover it all up because then there's going to be a lot more to the investigation committee of these stories, I think. But how does it go, well, how does it go? There's no need for the minister to call around the individual criminalist and tell them - do this, do this, do this. Of course not, because that's not how it happens. It's not happening. Or even, I don't know. But it's about investigating the purchase of protective equipment and medical equipment. And in the investigation, there's a senior official at a department -- no name, no ministry -- connected to these purchases and that's why in the investigation. A while ago, this senior official came to this ministry from some police department, from the Department of Economic Crime. He was employed there, and then he came to this department and he's under investigation. And if, of course, the guidelines are correct and if, on this axis, I mention, everyone is rightly targeted - but we know that the Head of the National Investigation Office directs all these matters and also determines who is going to investigate something - and look at him, well, this case of this man who was employed in an economic crime department on a police administration, precisely the police administration and that department of economic crime from where he came to the Ministry, he is now investigating this man. And I'm not going to prejudge, I know what the epilogue was like, and I think it's better if I don't speak publicly, but I just wanted to show you the way it runs. More sophisticated than it seems at first, though sometimes I would say that just as these things happen to the public, which sophistication you do not look overly at. But that's how these things run. And then do not deny that there is no political instruction and political direction to drive these matters in this way. You can't because it just happens that way. I just said one case, pretty innocent. There's more. There's more. In fact, I would like to conclude this reinforcement why we have decided to set up this commission of inquiry. And above all, because of what is happening in the direct relationship between police officers on the ground and people. And now we have been able to hear from the ruling party a follow-up strategy when we and people are warning that there is some excessive repression, but we are not talking about pennies here. To the exorbitant punishment, in fact, to the silence of people who want or have tried to speak out publicly in any way, or even innocently disagree with this government or with the actions of this government. But here we have now heard a follow-up strategy, so I am not surprised by the reaction of the Director General of the Police to the fact that confidence in the police profession and the Slovenian police have fallen on the basis of these results from the last mirror of Slovenia, that it is actually a surprise that this confidence has not yet fallen significantly further. Now I see from what the biggest government party has said, that, of course, people can expect greater repression in the future, because for this party there is not enough what we have witnessed on the ground now, but we need to use, of course, pendrakes, more repression or more violence. Let us, he says, take a look at some countries in Europe where people are supposed to be treated like this. Well, I'll give you a comparison, the taxi drivers who were protesting before parliament or whatever it was, if it was a protest at all, were ingrained for a total of 20,000 euros. Recently, it was reported that about 10,000 people were protesting in Vienna, and they received 400 euros in fines. So much for the proportion of police officers to citizens. Of course, it is not possible to blame the police because it is clear here that it is a political direction — to solve problems with more repression, with a more repressive attitude towards citizens. And as I said in the introduction, the cops here said themselves when these cabbies were punishing them for being ashamed of doing it, and a lot of them. Even in Trbovje, when they were walking from house to house the next day, knocking on the door and picking up pictures from Facebook, who was at that school opening protest, it was also awkward for the police, and they were embarrassed at times. This is the story calling for an investigative commission that will find political responsibility for the politicisation of the Slovenian police, which turns from the service for citizens to the service of the ruling policy. And that's unacceptable. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Thank you very much. There are no more replicas in this part because we are in the final phase. Mr Grims, there is no replica in this part, because we are in the final phase when the proposaler had the final word. But now you have a chance. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Grimes, may I explain? But now you have the opportunity, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, to re-apply to the debate and you will have all the time to respond to the applicant's concluding thoughts. At this stage, there is no longer a replica of the Rules of Procedure. And even in dividing time, to remind you, there are no replicas according to the rules of procedure. Now I'm asking you if you'd like to discuss this further in accordance with Article 71? Mr Grimes has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	Please quote, according to which article in the closing speech at the time of the discussion is not possible a replica. But I would really like to hear this article of the Rules of Procedure because you just made it up, so we can go to that vote and I'll sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Mr. Grimes, I can tell you. The replica shall be allowed to be debated in accordance with Article 70. Mr Bear did not have a discussion now, but he had a final word as a motioner. We concluded the debate with you as the last debater, and I also announced you as the last debater. Then you had two more replicas to discuss, and this is where we ended the debate. And according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the option of replicating only to debate Members. Now I suggest we proceed. Mr Grimes, please, procedural. You're very persistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	There's only two things procedurally. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the debate is open, this is a debate, depending on who is speaking. And in this debate, of course, there is a possible replica. Everything else is your completely arbitrary interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Mr Grimes, this was neither a procedural proposal nor a procedural proposal. You were just commenting on my interpretation of the rules of procedure. But I believe you're aware that I'm right in this case, but let's just leave it. You're right, I'm right, I'm right, I'm in charge of the session. If there is still an interest in the debate, I open the application and ask that if he wants to discuss it, he too will get the last word in the debate, to which a replica will not be possible. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. We'll have five minutes each. The first one gets the word, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Prepare yourself, Mr. Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. At first, I didn't mean to come by, but I have to respond to Mr Bear's debate. Let me explain the correctness a little bit. A comparison of the punishment in Vienna in Austria, where there were 10,000 protesters, was presented in the debate and a colleague said that only 400 euros were fined. I would say that this is very misleading, because we know that this colleague did not mention or give this information that the stage of these protests was such that they had to settle peace with the water cannons by means of coercive means, tear gas. In short, they did not write tickets with sentences, but with tear gas and other military means, they intervened to control the crowd. This is a comparison with punishment, and let everyone judge if this fits. In short, misleading to extremes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	President, thank you so much for your word. Earlier in the replica, I was running out of time to stand up for the NPU's readings so that we could point out some case where they were successful. There are many such cases, respected colleagues, both in the field of illicit drugs, where they have been seized both by criminals from individual police administrations and by individual criminals from the National Investigation Office. This has also been the case in other segments of organised crime and also in the area of economic crime. However, the key question is how much as a legislator do we want the NPU to succeed, that the police are successful. And as much as we want, it'll be as successful. And let us recall only all the discussions in this mandate, when the applications were reversed, regarding the IMSI Catchers, regarding the conduct of house investigations in cases where the owner of the apartment is not available. Who had already given a request for constitutional review? You know, these are tools with which services like the NPU and everyone else could be much more successful. But apparently we don't want politicians to, or they don't want that to happen. And we will be able to evaluate the work realistically and impartially when we say – we have done everything with our things, we have given them enough tools, we have given them enough resources, we have given them enough resources and they should work. As long as that is not the case, however, we will face problems with the backlogs we discussed earlier and with many others. But in principle it is the desire and mission of every police officer, criminalist and anyone else in this police force to carry out their work in a responsible manner, regardless of who is currently in the government. Therefore, to say that the NPU is not successful; all rebuttal cases fall in court for such and other procedural reasons. And also because they have certain things they could use in the bunker because there's a constitutional requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	Thank you. These motioners of today's session have serious responsibilities issues. This responsibility under the current opposition system looks like this: we are responsible for the exercise of responsibility, except when we are responsible for something, but then every mention of responsibility is hysterical and the exercise of responsibility is unacceptable. That's great. Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility always begins with itself, even when it comes to the present opposition, because you were once in power. And what was I talking about before? About you leaving behind a complete mess. You said those masks were exported to China by a private company. But who made it possible, and then who paid for it, how did it go with transportation? And what have other countries, ladies and gentlemen done? That's essential. Germany, France, and so on, not to mention, seized every shipment that came in, let alone send something out when the pandemic started once. And once again, this was February 13th, this was not once December or January, when there were no formal infections in Europe. And if we had 10 million masks for Slovenians and Slovenians, for citizens and citizens in warehouses, okay, we could just give, say, 1 million to help. But you had a zero for Slovenians, and you were exporting the last remaining masks to China. You think I forgot what it looked like when we asked for masks, you couldn't get them. People were looking, and then something minimal came along as help from other countries. That's what you're responsible for. And when I said, when you have so much to say about responsibility, then take responsibility. No, but then it's over, and then it's -- it's her, what's the reaction and the scheming. What are the penalties in neighbouring countries? You keep trying to show how Slovenian police work violently, exaggerate, I don't know what else, according to some political instructions. Please go to the Internet and take a look at the pictures of what crowd control looked like, protesting the pandemic and measures and so on, in Italy, Austria, France, Germany. It was such a violent intervention by the police that I was terrified to see it. And here you read to the Slovenian police that she did what she did, and then you suggest that there were strong political guidelines for this. Yeah, apparently, she was a lot softer than the other countries' police. Or for all the jugophils, look at the Serbian police's intervention against those who don't use masks. With a pendrek on the head, on the back and on the legs and so on, even when it comes to students and so on. You have footage on the Internet. This is not the case in Slovenia, and the only right thing is that it is not. So the instructions are good. And you want to show every way around here how something might be wrong. The only thing that was wrong was that you did not take care of Slovenian citizens and citizens when it was time. For strangers everywhere, for nothing at home. And don't pretend it was some private company. This was made possible by the then Charles government and its coalition. And consciously, they took pictures, statements were, here, we're going to help. Nice, but what do you have for Slovenian citizens and citizens, what's left in the warehouses? Zero. And after trying in some kind of chaos - because there was total chaos and things were unattainable on the world market - to provide help, but it's the biggest crime and I don't know what else and you're making a fool out of it. If you want to exercise responsibility — each responsibility begins with itself first. First exercise your responsibility, as I said before, that you have left completely empty warehouses, that you have left citizens and citizens without protection at risk of life. Take responsibility. But if you don't take it, stop talking about responsibility, because you don't even know what it is. And that's the problem with today's session. It's always showing how something's supposed to be wrong, but it's not. Once again, Slovenian police are functioning well in these difficult circumstances, working properly, working professionally. And for everything she's done, I can only sincerely congratulate her!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. I did not intend to respond earlier in the debate, because my position was sufficiently understandable and comprehensive, but some orc nebulosis to which an answer was to be given. Why do I keep stressing and every time I have a chance to say the number of personnel changes in this government? Because we've been listening to a number of reports of 252 changes in the eighteen months of the Sharchev government. Well, this government only made 827 in 12 months. And your own people, respected, are leaving because they do not withstand political pressures to carry out illegal procedures. And we're not going to investigate what I said in my position. That's clear and visible. We're going to investigate what's suspected, and what's going to happen is, I'm 100% certain, it's still opened up in the investigator. Yes, dear colleague Grims, the minister can give direction and it is also right to pass it until these guidelines are in accordance with the law and are not illegal, which in this case they were. And both Mr Hojs and your party, in the then opposition to Knovs, have proved that they can gravely exceed their powers; and I believe that, according to what we have heard today, this investigator is still necessary and necessary. These pressures that you're talking about come mainly from your side. And the police, this respectable police force is disappointed with this government. Even your people who belong to your client are disappointed and say that so badly and so without mercy the police have never run before. Those working groups could be some kind of punishment. And when you talk about responsibility, your honor, it makes me laugh when you know how to take responsibility, and even when the minister was afraid he wanted to step down, you wouldn't let him. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop fooling around, because if you knew how to take responsibility, I wouldn't be sitting here anymore. And the fact that this government is understated is the reputation of the police. And now I'm going to tell you when you talk about these empty warehouses and these things in the Sharchev government. When the government of Marjana Sharca left, there were 400 million plus, no dead, Comrade Grims; today you have been strong over 4,000 dead since the government of Janez Janša, and 10 billion poufs, 10 billion poufs, respected. And this beautiful ideological grimsia that was before gives me the feeling that you're really afraid of what's going to happen in this investigative committee. I really don't want to talk about these dead, but we can even see that some of your government's representatives are bragging about the release of a thousand beds. Don't be shy. And no one in this country and no one on this side has ever and never criticized the police. We have always respected it in the LMŠ and will continue to do so. The police are really working under difficult circumstances, mainly because of the epidemic. But there's another difficult, difficult situation, and that's Hoys. I think the police will breathe very well when Mr. Hoys leaves. Speaking of masks, that's all, Comrade Grimes. Your government recently exported a vaccine to the South. This vaccine, about which you today strongly complain that it is missing. And not only did she export it; she didn't even order it what she was supposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall! As the last one gets the word, Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. What we left behind was a question. What did we leave behind? We have left behind a life without threats, without repression, we have left behind a great surplus in the budget and people have not protested. We put that behind us. And we weren't at war with the whole world, even as you and the Prime Minister are now at the helm. This comparison of police intervention around the world and of course it is completely inappropriate for us. Citizens of Slovenia have our relationship with the Slovenian police. We don't have to show pictures from somewhere else. We know what we're expecting from the police. In particular, we expect its concern for our security; not that it is transformed into a tool of the ruling policy to bring repression against citizens. And if I come back to the end again, because it has been repeatedly completely misplaced, what we really want to achieve with this investigative committee, I will reiterate what was the main reason that the List of Marjan Sarca decided to file a request with the other opposition parties for the establishment of an investigative commission. The main reason is the preservation and consolidation of the confidence of citizens and citizens in the Slovenian police. This is exactly the opposite of what you said from the beginning, that we are now undermining the Slovenian police. We are aware that it is an extremely important service. The police, who care for our safety, must enjoy a high level of trust. However, in a situation where the current policy with the SDS party at the helm is also using the epidemic as an expression of police politicisation, we have simply reacted. By setting up client and, in particular, SDS clients of loyal personnel, we are passing through all the key places in the police system or we have already passed the stage when the police are practically politically controlled. And we're against it, we're trying to stop it. And the Commission of Inquiry is obliged to establish the political responsibility of both Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs and Prime Minister Janez Janša for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-29-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the Slovenian police, police units, specialised police units and investigative groups and the suspicion of political influence on the course or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the relevant parliamentary investigation and the possible amendment of the applicable legislation governing the organisation, operation, management, tasks and powers of the Slovenian police. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the request of 12 March 2021 and in the Act setting up the parliamentary investigation of 16 March 2021 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day! (The sitting was suspended 29. MARCH 2021 AT 15.20.)
