ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 71st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jerca Korče by 12 noon, Marjan Šarec by 12 noon, Luka Mesec from 13 to 17:00, Franz Jurša to 12 noon, only Bevk from 12 to 17:00 and Primož Siter until 14.30. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 71st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 20 April 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 71st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period from 2022 to 2024. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to present to you the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022, in particular in the part relating to 2021. In accordance with Article 13 of the Fiscal Rule Act, three amendments to the Decision for the period 2020-2022 were adopted by the National Assembly on 11 May 2020, 23 September 2020 and 18 November 2020, due to exceptional circumstances arising from the epidemic. This has provided funds for the implementation of measures related to the epidemic. The re-amendment of the Decision in the work relating to 2021 is necessary as the exceptional circumstances associated with the epidemic have significantly strengthened and worsened the situation since autumn 2020 and, in this regard, also the financial impact or impact on all public cash registers. The macroeconomic forecast has also changed and, as a result of these effects on public finances, it was not possible to plan the country's budget changes for 2021. I am talking, of course, about the so-called second wave and the so-called third wave. Fiscal policy is so strongly influenced by the epidemic. Looking back, the decline in GDP in 2020 was still lower than expected and stood at –5.5%. Compared to the euro area, this is better by 1.1 percentage points. The package of measures had a significant impact on the decline in economic growth, resulting in a decrease in the decline, the Bank of Slovenia estimates that for about a third, the Fiscal Council estimates by a quarter, the UMAR that this decline was less by 3 percentage points than it would have been if there were no measures taken. These large-scale measures accounted for a deficit of –8.4 gross social product in 2020, which is higher than the euro area average of 7.2% of gross social product. Packages that have affected public debt increases across the euro area. When we talk about them, we can say that in the euro area, the average debt is 98% of the gross social product, which is about 18% higher than the public debt in Slovenia. On this basis and in these circumstances, the Government proposes a recast of the current decree, with these changes for 2021, the ceiling of the sector expenditure increases to 25 000 300 million and 25 billion 300 million, the deficit amounts to 8.6% and the ceiling of expenditure will be increased to 14 000 320 million and slightly more than 14 billion for the state budget and the deficit will be 8.6%. This will allow for the continued smooth financing of all the measures laid down in the intervention laws. With regard to the budget, it has already been spent around 800 million, 500 million has already been planned, and about 260 million will be spent and diverted within EU funds. There will be some savings, and the difference still needs to be effectively ensured. With regard to the pension fund, I should explain that the projected expenditure on pensions is increasing in all future years. In 2021, pension expenditure increases by 5.9% and then increases by between 2% and 3% over the coming years. The rates of pension growth are consistent with the balance sheet of the Zpiza. The differences mentioned yesterday were due to various analytical records or supporting documents. Dear Members, after exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to ensure that fiscal policy does not threaten recovery during the medium term. This will be enabled by the adoption of the proposed decision, and I propose that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 57th urgent meeting yesterday, the Finance Committee considered the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of state budget for the period from 2022 to 2024. The Minister of Finance presented a motion for a decree with accompanying documents and explained that the materials are based on the latest available macroeconomic forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, on the measures taken by the Government, on the Public Finance Act and on the European Directive. With regard to the sector target balance, the State explained that the proposal for a decree in 2022 foresees a deficit of 5,7 % of gross domestic product, in 2023 a deficit of 3,8 % and in 2024 a deficit of 2,8 %. So the deficit is decreasing. As regards the State budget target balance, it explained that a deficit of 4,9 % is foreseen in 2022 and will amount to 2,5 % by 2024, reflecting the gradual consolidation of public finances. In response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, he drew attention to the uncertainties behind the preparation of the public financial projections and highlighted the Government's efforts to maintain and promote the economy, businesses and jobs through fiscal policy. He stressed that an exceptional situation requires exceptional action, although there is a derogation from fiscal rules, but with targeted investments, risks in economic activities are reduced. With regard to the transition from expansionary fiscal policy to less expansionary or more restrictive in the years 2023 and 2024, the President of the Fiscal Council pointed out that this is a sensitive transformation that should be accompanied by a plan and measures to achieve a transition with reduced consumption. Regarding the high public debt, he stressed that this would be manageable if effectively spent. With regard to the Fiscal Council's warning, the Minister of Finance stressed that the Government will aim to make the best possible use of resources through its actions and the measures being taken within the framework of the European Union. In 2022, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development explained that economic growth will continue to reflect the replacement of economic activity in the last two years and will then gradually stabilise economic growth at 3%. The recovery of the economy will depend, in particular, on the epidemiological situation. The discussion expressed the view that by funding and adopting appropriate targeted intervention measures, the Government managed to maintain a functioning economy and a large number of jobs. On the contrary, in connection with the Government's conduct, some discussers pointed out the irrational use of public funds, the high expenditure of the state budget and the high indebtedness of the state. The debaters also touched on the problems of building an effective economic policy based on empirical analysis and proactive budgetary policy in the current situation. In this respect, support was expressed for the proposed decision as a suitable basis for finding an optimal development model. A question was raised to the representatives of the Fiscal Council and the UMAR regarding the effects of government intervention measures. The representative of the Fiscal Council estimated that without measures the decline in economic activity would be one third more than it was. However, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development explained that the Government's actions had prevented the economic activity from falling by at least 4 percentage points. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. The Committee on Finance, as its parent labour force, has not adopted any amendments to the draft decree and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period from 2022 to 2024 be adopted in the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government! Today we are deciding on a framework for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period from 2022 to 2024. We are planning public spending for the next period in line with the public financial objectives to be pursued by appropriate fiscal policies. The Fiscal Rule Act provides that, in the framework of the preparation of the budgets of the sector, the State shall determine for at least three years the target balance of the State sector and its maximum allowable amount of expenditure as well as the target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for the State budget, the total target balance and the total amount of expenditure for all municipal budgets, the maximum amount of expenditure for the pension fund and the maximum amount of expenditure for the health treasury. The exceptional circumstances of the covid epidemic, which has affected the whole of Europe and the rest of the world, have resulted in a general decline in economic activity. All restrictive measures allowed a derogation from fiscal rules, both at national level and at the level of the European Union as a whole, on the basis of an instrument of exceptional circumstances. In Slovenia we are still strongly involved in saving the economy and in mitigating the consequences of the epidemic. This means that we also need to adjust our public financial plans accordingly. The current uncertain situation prevents us from drawing up stable medium-term fiscal forecasts, so fiscal measures can be more precisely planned only for 2022 and the targets for 2023 and 2024 merely indicate the direction of future fiscal policies. We are aware that fiscal policy will also be strongly focused in the coming years to deal with the consequences of the current crisis. We know from past experience that only by means of an expansion fiscal policy can the economy be provided with favourable and stable financial conditions for normal growth. This is what the international institutions, such as the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, are ultimately imposing on us. Nevertheless, we must do our utmost to see the country's deficit at the summit expected this year begin to decline gradually in the coming years. We are aware of all the potential dangers that fiscal policy management poses in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Of course, in his opinion, the Fiscal Council rightly draws attention to all these dangers. Therefore, as a coalition partner, we will make particular efforts to strike an appropriate balance in order to ensure a favourable situation for economic growth, while at the same time respecting the medium-term sustainability of public finances. That is why we will support the proposal of this decree in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have one of the most important documents to be adopted in the National Assembly. At least he should be. Why? Because this document sets out a fiscal policy for the next two years. Unfortunately, the document before us today is a piece of paper with no value. The numbers on the paper are written only to allow you to continue using tax money without control. A whole bunch of numbers that don't even go together. The document is without tail and head, and which is crucial, without content, without looking into the future. Your concern is that the money you received by borrowing will be used as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. The party, which has been crying out about healthy public finances without debt for a decade, has indebted the country to the highest in history. The public debt you have managed to make amounts to as much as 37.4 billion or 80.8% of GDP. Each Slovenian is in charge of almost 18,000 euros. At the end of 2022, which we are now talking about, this debt will increase to 45 billion and each Slovenian will be owed almost 22,000 euros. And this is you who have taught us for 10 years how to make debt harmful and how to consolidate public finances. In one year you have managed to put a public financial picture of our country on the head. In one year you managed to blow up public finances into a real disaster. It is important to say and point out that the Crown crisis has also put our lives on the table and that we have rightly expected people to help us in this crisis, and it is right that it has helped us. Today, however, we do not have any analysis of the effects on the measures you have implemented and paid in the last year. Is it true that you gave the students €150 twice and the priests €750 a month? Is it true that doctors also received up to €8,000 of coronary supplements and that they are employed in DSOs and only 1.3 euros an hour? It's not right, of course it's wrong. Also, planning public finances somehow does not go well with you, and this proves a document that we will otherwise consider under the next item. This is a decree on the use of public money for the period 2020-2022, which you have amended in one year or today will be amended for the fourth time. With this decree, which we are talking about now, we should draw the direction of public finances for the period 2022-2024, and it will certainly not be any better. I am sure that this document will also need to be amended several times. Also because you're obviously planning another attack on certain categories of the population. Again, your target is retired. As was the case in 2012, when you reduced more than 25 thousand pensioners by 25 thousand [[Lapsus linguae, to which the MEPs respond in the discussion below. Alenka Bratušek and Susana Beautiful Šimenka. Correct: 25%. percentage]] . Of course, we corrected your mistake in 2013 and returned to the pensioners what they had earned. Given the numbers before us, fate will obviously repeat itself. The 2022 framework has basically been adopted by the previous government, and the situation and crisis, of course, require you to make certain corrections. And you did. We have a new proposal today, your proposal to cut the spending of public money. What's interesting is that you've decided to save the exact and most on the pensioners. You are reducing pension funds by EUR 230 million. You are reducing funds to municipalities, and in 2022 municipalities will be able to spend less than this year. Not to speak of health care, where change is small, but symbolic. You'll take 5 million euros from them, too. And they cut themselves off for 650 million euros more cake. Dear Minister, these numbers unfortunately put you on a lie. Moreover, here is an analysis of the expenditure of the cash register Zpiz after years and the growth of these expenditure after years. Growth in 2019 compared to 2018 was 4.1%, growth in last year, of course due to all the observable additives, was 7.6. This year you plan to increase this expenditure at 5.4 and for 2022 leave practically the same amount. I ask once again where the 2 to 3% you're talking about has been lost. With the amount you have in your decree, pensions will have to be reduced. It's just an increase in the number of pensioners that requires more than that. These are the facts, and these facts confirm the numbers. Of course, we're not going to support such a clumsyly prepared document in the SAB party. It is sad, however, that the SDS party for each of its governments leaves a burning ground. After the government you ran from 2004 to 2008, you left us a bank hole and a big corruption affair, Patria. After the government you led in 2012, you left the country with an empty cash register, and you ideologically reduced the rights of people – you also reduced pensions by 25%, not to say that you called the troika into the country. After this government, you will leave widespread public finances, the highest public debt in our history, the strife of the nation and clearly reduced pensions again. A lot of work awaits the government that will come after you, and a lot of mistakes and nonsense will have to be corrected and corrected. In the SAB party, we strongly oppose the fact that you are planning an intervention in pensions, and we will absolutely vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the market economy, the information role of macroeconomic strategies, forecasts and policies is crucial. The government, the central bank and other institutional authorities shall communicate their objectives, basic management parameters and the system framework to stakeholders. Good, timely and reliable information is the key to business adaptation of lower transaction costs and optimal economic results. A successful economy needs two – competition and flexibility on the one hand, social sustainability and inclusion on the other. This is the reference framework within which the Government and all stakeholders in Slovenia should work. In the Desus Group, it is important to express our commitment to projections of the movement of macroeconomic aggregates prepared by domestic and foreign institutions. They produce their projections at a time when it is not known how long the epidemic will last, how deep the crisis will be, how economic activity will be affected by the measures applied and implemented by countries, and how the future interaction of global economies will be. On the basis of the latest forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development for 2022, economic growth is expected to be 4.4% and 3.3% for 2023. Gross investments in fixed assets will increase 8.0 and 6.5% in the same periods and national consumption will grow at 1.7% and 1.4%. The expenditure of the state sector will amount to €25 billion and €40 million for 2022. In the structure of these expenditure is the highest share of the state budget, which is planned at 13 billion and 300 million, which is 53% of total expenditure. In view of the projected maximum allowable expenditure for 2021, the absolute amount will be lower by a billion euros. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, we have heard the opinion of the Fiscal Council that such a conversion from an expansion to a somewhat more restrictive fiscal policy would pose a risk to the fulfilment of all the statutory obligations of the state budget. Expansive fiscal policy, however, poses a risk of not achieving the medium-term fiscal objective. How should economic policy makers act to minimise risks? So where is the optimal distinction between both types of politics, exponentially and restrictively, we haven't heard that, because no one really knows that. In uncertainty, everything can turn out to be a cause, and all comparisons are only informative. Government policies, in particular structural, development and regional ones, will be crucial. Economic history clearly shows that all developed countries have been going through long, centuries of periods in which the country's active role has been crucial to their development. This development was supported by strong state interventions at the level and to the extent permitted by the historical moment. The most successful were the countries that managed their development and did not leave it only to market legality. It is crucial to understand that effective economic policy is not built with theories and doctrines. Based on empirical analysis and active development policy. In the development of the economy, active and pragmatic governments are important and are committed to economic development and willing to experiment reasonably. The main objective in dealing with the epidemic should be to fully recover, because the epidemic is a transient phenomenon, the consequences of which can be influenced to minimise the final damage. Then it is necessary to restore a life that has stopped but has not changed. However, life during the epidemic has certainly not been destroyed. Clearly, after the restoration, it will be as good as it could have been before it. Members of the Desus Group will support the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2022 to 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! Allow me to present, for this item of the agenda, the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, both on the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 and on the Proposal for a Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024. Since the covida-19 epidemic is still ongoing, the state budget expenditure this year will be 800 million euros higher than those set by the National Assembly at the end of last November. The economic and financial situation has deteriorated due to the second and third waves of the epidemic, so the overall public finances of the country sector will increase to EUR 25.3 billion and deepen the budget deficit from 6.6 to 8.6% of GDP. As a result, last year we also had to amend the decrees for 2020, 2021 and 2022 three times. In addition, four intervention laws, the so-called PKPs, were adopted, with a financial impact of around €1.5 billion. These resources were not planned in the adopted budget for 2021. In addition, this March we adopted a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which will increase the expenditure of the pension fund. With the novel we provided the lowest pension of 280 euros, raised the guaranteed pension from 581 to 620 euros and set a disability pension of 388 euros, so the pension expenditure will be about 70 million euros higher. The current public financial data also show that the revenues of the state budget during the first three months of the year amounted to around 3.5% less than in the same period last year, and the expenditure increased by 35% and the budget recorded almost 700 million euro deficits. This budget deficit is largely due to the covida-19 epidemic on the side of revenue and measures to mitigate its impact on the expenditure side, and we can therefore agree that, as in 2020, 2021 is exceptional and that this must also be reflected in public finances. The same fiscal consequences of the epidemic are also detectable in other EU Member States. In such exceptional cases, both national rules and those at European Union level allow for a derogation from the fiscal rules in force. This allows the country to act through fiscal policy even in 2021 to address the economic consequences of the crisis caused by the covida-19 epidemic. However, the Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the 2022-2024 sector shows that the public deficit will persist for at least three years. However, it will gradually decrease from 5.7% of GDP in 2022 to 2.8% in 2024. The government also allows the possibility of taking additional measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic in 2022. The maximum total public expenditure is set at EUR 25.04 billion next year, slightly above that in 2023 and EUR 25.43 billion in 2024. For the state budget, the highest expenditure for the coming year is projected at 13.30 billion euros, about 70 million euros more than in the approved budget and the budget deficit will reach 4.9% of GDP instead of 3.1%. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree with the Ministry of Finance's warnings that measures to support economic activity, despite the gradual recovery, should not be withdrawn too quickly. Even after the easing of the epidemiological situation, there will be a need for an enabling public financial policy for some time. The economy also reminds us that it still feels the consequences of the epidemic and that it needs a new package of intervention measures. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce has been calling on the Government to extend and improve successful existing measures and some new measures to help host, tourism and the meeting industry and to strengthen the development of companies. We cannot ignore the warnings of the Fiscal Council that in the so-called laws of the CAP some measures have been taken structurally and will burden the situation of public finances in the coming years. Therefore, the financial projections for the 2022-2024 Decision are not realistic. The impact of this deterioration is estimated to be 330 million euros per year, making the situation of public finances worse. Indeed, the government envisages a reduction of the budget deficit over the period 2023-2024, which implies a more restrictive fiscal policy, but there are no measures to achieve this in the documents submitted. Not even for the above-mentioned 300 million, but for the long-term public financial implications that tax reforms and the law on debarcation will have for the stability of public finances. The government is proposing the introduction of a social cap in the de-de-irocracy law. The pension fund will thus receive between €70 million and €100 million per year from the contributions paid and around €44 million per year from the ZZZS. The Ministry of Finance has also drawn up proposals to upgrade the tax system, including several proposals for laws or amendments to income laws, the Law on corporate income tax and the Law on value added tax. The new tax reform aims at taxing labour and capital revenues or reducing taxes, which cannot be disputed. The problem is that the Ministry does not have an answer as to where to find the resources to replace the tax revenue. The solutions proposed will only reduce income from income income in excess of EUR 200 million in 2022. In the coming years, there will be an additional drop in revenue, even up to some 100 million euros in 2025. Therefore, we think that the Ministry's claims to raise the income available to households, which is expected to lead to greater consumption, are twisted. In addition, we would like to point out that Slovenia will also have to repay a public debt of 80.8% of GDP last year. By the end of 2024, this is expected to decrease to 80% of GDP in terms of deficits and projected GDP growth, which is expected to be higher than the interest rate. The debt will nominally increase over all the years of the projection, totalling around €7 billion, to €44.3 billion. It is true that the current funding conditions of the country are extremely favourable, that interest rates are record low and that central banks with the ECB have a very encouraging monetary policy, but such situations in the financial markets cannot be forecasted or expected by 2024. The question is just which government and under what conditions will this debt have to pay. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that a more rational use of public finances is essential in the future. Finally, the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution has allowed the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, which contains a fundamental principle of public finances management at the level of the whole sector, in order not to exceed the ceiling of the expenditure allowed in the preparation of the budget. However, the budget remains sustainable in the medium term. This year, too, because of the new wave of covida-19 epidemic, it is special. The fiscal rule in such a situation allows for a temporary derogation from the principle of a balanced budget, but does not argue that the fiscal rule no longer applies or that we can forget about it. It is only temporarily not necessary to take into account certain of its provisions. Members and members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament are drawn from parties that have in the past demonstrated and demonstrated that we are supporters of sustainable and responsible fiscal policies. This time, our colleagues, including the largest government party, who has in the past been the most zealous advocate of the fiscal rule and even challenged the budgetary acts that have shown a budgetary surplus, have chosen a different direction and, in the decision on the framework for the preparation of the accounts of the State sector for the period 2022-2024, which is at issue for us, have little to do with the spirit of the constraints that we must take into account in the planning of public finances. In spite of the exceptional situation and the planned deficits in the budget for the years 2022 to 2024, we are convinced that we should not forget public financial caution. On the basis of everything that has been said in the Group of Non-Members, we cannot agree with the content of the proposed decision, so we will abstain from voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u14	Honourable President of the National Assembly, all present, good afternoon! We live in strange times. Yeah, unusual times. The world has so far reached something completely unknown to our generations. We've been hit by a global pandemic that most governments around the world have never met. Through Europe, countries have in a more or less similar way taken measures that simultaneously tried to contain the epidemic and, on the other hand, tried to prevent damage in the economy. In European countries, it is quite common for such exceptional situations to reach into the state budget and try to prevent economic damage. With us, of course, everything in the opposition is being discredited again, all the government's efforts and all its solutions, and they represent them as evil for their propaganda, even though they are meant for salvation. Of course, this opposition, which in general criticises and exploits its political points, would use more or less the same mechanisms in the state budget if it were in power. In these uncertain macroeconomic circumstances, the economy must be strengthened urgently, and it is therefore crucial that the decision be adopted. In such an exceptional situation as the covid-19 virus epidemic, it is only logical that fiscal policy must be adapted as in other European countries. Any criticism of this by the opposition is merely a consequence of their self-promotional plan of overthrow. And at the expense of constant criticism and throwing of pollen under the feet will be suffered by our country Slovenia, which is now more than obvious to the opposition. The incentive fiscal policy is crucial for Slovenia and we will therefore unanimously support both decisions in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u16	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to all! We have before us a decree on the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2022 to 2024. The key message is that the country's maximum expenditure for 2022, 2023, 2024 is between 25 billion 40 and 25 billion 440. The target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure on the state budget in cash corresponding to the previous target balance for 2020 amount to 13 billion, in 2024 it will be 13.73, the target balance in the gross domestic product structure in 2022 – 4.9 in 2024 – 2.5. The target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for local units of the state sector in cash: the maximum expenditure for 2022 is 2.4 billion 05 and for 2024 2.4 billion 15. The target balance is also set for pension registers from 2022 to 2024 and health treasury. Maximum expenditure on cash-flow health allowance: expenditure of the sector was 14.8 % higher than in 2019; the main reasons for all these matters are, of course, related to addressing the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the government of Janez Janša has chosen the right and appropriate path. In fact, all efforts were focused on two segments: stopping the spread of covid-19 and, of course, helping the economy to keep the economy operational, and helping all employees. A lot of money was also earmarked for health care. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that this path is appropriate and that the Slovenian budget has never been as socially oriented in history as it is now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that maintaining a functioning economy is the most important segment and that all employees must also be taken care of. Covid's situation is unpredictable. We can say that there are emergencies and that effective and rapid action is needed in emergency situations. The main means of public money allocated were to the economy and to the preservation of jobs. Compared to the previous expenditure on taxpayers' money earmarked for the resolution of financial institutions, this situation is significantly different and the taxpayer's money is earmarked for the rescue of people. To save people and to preserve a functioning economy. Not only Slovenia, but also all the other countries of the European Union. The European Union is certainly one of the most affected areas in the world, with an increasing budget deficit. Debt in the gross domestic product structure is also increasing. All countries have a higher deficit, a higher percentage of the deficit in the gross domestic product structure for one reason only, covid-19. Certainly, given yesterday's Committee on Finance, where we have dealt with this matter, we cannot agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party with some attacks by the opposition on this decree and the pressure they have at a given time on public finances. We have even heard statements by some that this government is committing hooliganism over public finances. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no hooliganism for the Slovenian Democratic Party to maintain the economy and to devote money to the economy. There is no hooliganism for the Slovenian Democratic Party that the money from the budget is allocated to keep jobs. There is no hooliganism for the Slovenian Democratic Party to use the taxpayer's money to strengthen health care. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we absolutely deny that all these measures will reduce pensions in the future. Far from it. This government has already shown that pensioners are also one of the priorities of this government and that we are aware of the weaknesses of this segment. Pensioners have been taken care of in this mandate through regular coordination and extraordinary coordination of pensions. One segment of the pensioners, the most vulnerable, also earned their extraordinary income from the covida-19 epidemic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the parliamentary group we are convinced that this government is doing well, that during the covida-19 epidemic no segment and area of the most vulnerable groups that were most affected by covid-19 was forgotten. The measures require further assistance, for we still have not defeated the enemy covid. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are confident that the pressure on public finances will continue. We haven't defeated Covid yet, but of course then, the most important thing before us is how we will recover the economy so that it will recover as soon as possible. It will probably be necessary to draw up a plan that will be maintained and continued throughout this period, which could not be realized due to covid-19. There will also be a great deal of emphasis on the resources allocated to Slovenia by the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is probably one of the most important documents and arrangements in the history of the European Union. I am sure that the funds of more than 5.2 billion, which are intended for Slovenia, will be spent effectively and successfully, spent primarily on covidu-19 and, of course, on the fight to recover the economy itself, and that all the investments agreed in this plan or to be made from these funds will have a multiplier effect on the Slovenian budget. Covida-19 has not been defeated, the pressure on public finances is great, a major challenge will also be how with public finances forward, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members we believe that these measures and such a way to take care of the functioning economy and the employees are the only right ones. We could also have listened to the opinion of the Fiscal Council and the Director of UMAR that, if the measures and resources that the Government has committed were not to apply, the economic impact of the economy would be at least one third worse. Last but not least, the measures and resources provided for in the tax money budget are, in the right direction and in the right segments, of course, information comparable between the individual countries of the European Union, namely that Slovenia is recording a significantly smaller fall in gross domestic product than other countries of the European Union. Finally, the information that Slovenian credit rating agencies do not reduce ratings, but even increase them, which is certainly saying that Slovenia in an international environment maintains the status of a partner worthy of trust. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that not all these findings made by the opposition in the last period are justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, Minister of State! Let me begin the position of the LMŠ Group with the news we heard yesterday. This is: the proposal for the introduction of a social cap included in the proposed law on demobilization is a non-systemic solution that undermines the current pension scheme, the Council of the Pension Institute assessed. Why am I bringing this up? This is only one of the measures that you are planning in the Government and will be deeply cut into public finances in the period 2022-2024. It is true that with this social cap you will make life easier for those who already have a lot, but at the same time this will mean poverty of the pension allowance for at least 100 million euros a year and health bills for between 44 million and 65 million. Since we are considering the budget framework for the period 2022-2024, we need to look at the other measures you are forecasting. On the day the Fiscal Council delivered its opinion, we learned that you have put forward a proposal to upgrade the tax system, which is expected to reduce income generated by income of around 248 million in the following year. I'm on it. If the Demographic Fund Act is approved, the income from the dividends provided for the management of state-owned enterprises in the budget will be significantly reduced. The budget is also expected to finance a long-term supply of €300 million per year. You predict another 100 million arms purchases a year, the first two years 100 million, then 145. Forced retirement, according to the Fiscal Council, will take an additional 35 million dollars a year to the budget. The President of the Government recently asked the question of whether the government plans for future cuts in people's income, so to save, he replied, quote: “We do not plan, we do not plan any cuts.” End of story. You may not be planning them, but if you continue along the projected path of fiscal inflows poverty into the budget, these cuts will be inevitable. At the same time, you do absolutely nothing on the revenue side, except, of course, lowering your income. Obviously, you intend to cover the difference with additional debt, and in particular with the funds obtained on the basis of the recovery and resistance plan. But also here, the fiscal world is very clear, and I will quote again: “There are also very optimistic assumptions as to the ability to obtain European funds. By 2024, they are expected to spend more than three quarters of all grants available over the next 10 years." End of story. Ladies and gentlemen, in the LMŠ we view the budget as a social consensus, a social consensus on what we will finance with the resources available to us in the budget and for what purpose ours will be, the real common money will be spent. At the most inconvenient time, you poor the revenue side of the budget, which can mean fear and concern that over time there will not be enough money for all the needs our society has for health, education and pensions. Of course, your proposals for action are at first sight welcome, but they are more of a present than anything else. Above all, this is not a rational financial policy, but a financial policy that will not only impoverish the state budget, but also the pension and health treasury, and due to income changes it will be less in the municipal treasury. The measures you are predicting will ultimately be felt by all, either by lowering wages and social transfers or by reducing certain rights. In conclusion, as the President of the Fiscal Council said: a more restrictive fiscal policy in 2023 and 2024 is not based on realistic projections. Let me remind you that you like to say that you respect and respect the opinion of the Fiscal Council, but we can ask ourselves how. Especially since many times, of course, when this was appropriate for you, you also referred to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. Therefore, the decree we are considering is a kind of unrealistic decision, which is why we will not support it in the LMŠ Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Everyone in this Chamber, including all Members of the Social Democrats, supports the state spending and the responsibility to help people and the economy respond to the viral pandemic, which has been around for almost a year and a half. The consensus of all, politicians and citizens is that, at such times, it must respond decisively and comprehensively so that normal fiscal sustainability cannot be a rule in such circumstances. In such cases, the country must act and help people and businesses who are unable to carry out their work in order to protect public health or are otherwise affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Spending and public debt due to the epidemic to help people and the economy are therefore not a problem under these circumstances. The problem is the imprudent waste of excuses for an epidemic. The problem is already being implemented and planned measures that are not linked to the epidemic, but nevertheless further and unnecessarily undermine the state's public financial image and capacity to act. This Government and all of us in its opinion are also rightly reminded of the Fiscal Council. At the very beginning of our position, we point out that there will be no doubt whether the Social Democrats support State aid to people and businesses, or whether we support efforts to quickly recover and successfully adapt to the new situation. Of course, we support this by the Social Democrats, and it is clear to us that this picture of state finances will temporarily look rather bad. However, as the Fiscal Council has already pointed out, all the proposed spending and debt cannot be attributed solely to the cost of the epidemic. In this precise conclusion, there are almost all the reasons why we oppose government budgetary plans – not because of spending and borrowing, but because of government cost-effectiveness, irrationality, wrong priorities and unfinished plans. In our view and also in the view of the Fiscal Council, the state of public finances in Slovenia will be among the worst in the European Union in 2024 when the projections are being made. Before deepening into specific numbers and their importance for people, it is necessary to recall many of the measures that this government has already taken or is planning, and none of them have a real connection with the consequences of the viral epidemic, but will have lasting harmful consequences. All the wrong decisions now taken will have to be paid in the next three years. At that time, the balance sheet will also show the costs of overpaid medical and protective equipment, the acquisition of military equipment, suspicious origin tests and other reckless purchases, as well as the indirect impact of ineffective aid that affects companies with threats of return to bankruptcy and again allow others to make extensive use of aid without serious injury or obligation to maintain their business. Despite the use of huge funds for various forms of aid, the government has never, for example, taken care of a 100 per cent remuneration for those waiting for work or a 100 per cent coverage of the hospital absence for the sick, as we have repeatedly proposed for it by the Social Democrats. Borrowing will have to be restored sometime, and the country will also need resources for its operations and people's needs in the future, while rulings act as if the loan will never have to be returned and, on top of that, expand their cost-effective spending plans for another three years, while continuing to destroy the tax resources from which public resources are fed. With changes in the taxation of motor vehicles, the budget will be 28 million less annually, which will be used mainly by wealthy buyers of expensive cars. The introduction of compulsory retirement in the PKP7 has weakened the pension allowance by at least 35 million per year after the calculation of the Fiscal Council or even 110 million per year after the calculation of the Pisa. As a result of the release of fuel prices, their prices have risen by 20%, and the country's annual revenue shortfall could be up to EUR 200 million. The proposed so-called social cap, better said capital housing, will generate even 100 million lower revenues annually, and the planned tax changes will make the budget poorer by an additional 250 million euros per year. Your Honor, all of this is absolutely unnecessary in the crisis. All of this means the poverty of the country, from which all, people, ruling and opposition, expect action. Instead of preserving and even strengthening the resources of the state, the government is tearing them apart, thus placing the country in a very vulnerable position. Unnecessary measures and unrealistic spending without a clear plan to obtain additional funds. Let us recall that, since December last year, no one has seen the Government's recovery and resilience plan to ensure that available European funds are drawn up, and the deadline for its intervention to the European Commission is due next week. It is therefore questionable whether and how we will draw on the promised European funds, for which the Government has from the outset stressed that they are key to closing this financial structure. The government also foresees huge budget deficits for the next three years, which will, of course, need to be reimbursed. This once may not be in the distant future. Even this framework shows that the government is planning to reduce pension funds – attention, reduction of pension funds – by EUR 230 million in the coming year. It also plans to reduce municipal spending by EUR 25 million. Government assurances that this will not happen, but unfortunately, Mr Minister, they are not credible. Because numbers don't lie. The budgetary framework nevertheless represents a pre-set, binding spending limit. If the budgetary framework provides for fewer funds for pensions and municipalities, of course, the only possible explanation is that less will be used for these purposes. This is a direction that the Social Democrats, unfortunately, cannot be supported. Let us therefore conclude this introduction by clarifying that we cannot support such a budgetary framework in the Group of Social Democrats. Much of the intended spending is not meant to control the epidemic, but rather for unnecessary gifts to your chosen ones. The huge debt will not be used to help people and businesses, but to cover the deficits created by the Government itself by reducing taxes. However, for European means of recovery and resilience, the Government has not yet drawn up a draft plan that the European Commission could endorse. So it's also threatened to draw on that money. Unfortunately, such budgetary plans cannot be supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In this and the next item, we are considering two documents prepared by the Government, the decree on the framework for the preparation of budgets for the years 2020 to 2022 and from 2023 to 2024, is said to be for four years. The material is a total of 16 pages, and on this material is the government's framework, how it will allocate €100 billion of public money in four years. 100 billion euros, that's what the state's all about in four years. Approximately 25 billion a year passes through state treasury, through state budget, through health treasury, pension registers and through municipal budgets. So we're talking about 100 billion euros. What does it say in these papers that determine where 100 billion euros will go? If I take away what the government promises to do in the next three years, this is it. This year's deficit is foreseen and, with the fourth amendment of the decree, it increases it from 6.6% of GDP to 8.6% of GDP. It says it will reduce this deficit by virtually fourfold by 2024, to 2.8% of GDP. At the same time, with such a radical reduction in deficits in these years, it will buy €780 million in weapons, spending 2 billion on investment in health care. According to current perspectives of 780 million in health after investments comes within 10 years, but no, they will now give 2 billion, the government is preparing the law. Then it will give 300 million a year for long-term care, and pensions will grow by between 2% and 3% a year, with the amount or total balance of the pension fund falling by EUR 230 million. It will also give another 1 billion tax breaks primarily to capital, the richest, the best paid and those who spend on dozens of apartments. It will do all this, but at the same time it will miraculously reduce the deficit. In other words, this document or these two documents are literally not worth the paper on which they are written. But there are two explanations of what the government is doing with them. The first explanation is he's bluffing. The decree for 2020 and 2021 has been amended for the fourth time. Why does he change it? Because it has already spent €827 million on intervention measures paid by 22 March this year, which means that by 22 March it spent half of the deficit it had foreseen for the whole year. So in less than three months, she spent the money she predicted she would spend in six months, so she's been changing this decree for the fourth time. So we can expect what this will look like in the next few years: yes, we made a little mistake. As we have already heard in the positions of some coalition groups of Members: yes, you know, the economy is unpredictable, it cannot be so anticipated, so that this needs to be rectified a little bit. The first possibility is that it is a bluff because it is easy for the Government under Article 3 of the Fiscal Rule Act to prepare this decree, send it to the European Commission and the Fiscal Council for evaluation and then give it to the National Assembly for adoption. It is said that he fulfills his marital obligation, but he does not mean to take this into account. That's a first chance. Another possibility that's more dangerous is that the government is serious. Because we're not watching this movie for the first time. If I stop only at this billion tax breaks – what does the Government do? He says that 2 billion more investments in health care and that pensions will grow from 2 to 3% per year, while at the same time paying people over 6,000 euros will pay the so-called social cap or tax leave, which, of course, will significantly increase their net earnings, but the pension register will lose 120 million euros and the health department will lose 70 million euros from this title. In addition, for the 4000 300 best-paid people, it predicts that it will reduce their income from 50% to 45%, making them rich again and the state treasury will roll. And last but not least, it predicts a reduction in income to capital gains. Above all, it is interesting that the income from capital income will be reduced from 27% and half to 25%, from the income from the surrender of assets – it is said that those who do own huge amounts of housing will profit most – and the income will practically halve, from 27% and half to 15%. What does that mean in numbers? With us, about 40 taxpayers make more than €150,000 worth of this property tax. The one who earns more than 200 000 euros will profit by using this measure for 25 000 euros. You give them that money. And in the face of trends, when prices on the real estate market literally go wild, when young people can't go to housing when housing is bought by people who buy them as an investment to sell them, you're now giving them a tax gift to encourage them even more, and at the expense of that, we're all going to do the rest. The damage will be to health care, the damage will be to pensions, the damage will be to the state treasury, but you don't care. You say, this will be useful, and the fiscal world parrots repeat after you, because this is a short-term risk, this billion will run out, but the real one, and this is what he wrote in his opinion, it will be useful. Here I would remind you that the same fiscal world was screaming and screaming when we wanted to end the supplementary health insurance, which is why they warned that there could be a 70-million-dollar drop in the public treasury. And here we are talking like this. [[shows with gesture]] Someone said, with a fingertip, and now we're going to give a billion to the richest, bye. And he said to the Fiscal Council, but yes, it's just a short-term risk, and otherwise it's useful. How useful that is, we have seen it in the first government of Janshea. At that time, the profit tax was also reduced and the highest income rate was eliminated and the capital income was exempted from the income scale, all of which amounted to about a billion euro minus in the country's income. Then the crisis came. And what did we do? You've taken austerity measures. In 2011, there was already economic growth, the new Janšev government came, accepted Zujf and received a recession in 2012 and 2013, when Slovenia set it on the lowest point in its perspective. 20% of the young people were unemployed at the time, and you continued to spin this drum, czech, and it is a wasteful country that needs to be sharpened even more. And now we're back in a period like this. This year, you have this foam for the European Commission to look through your fingers, they said, yes, because this year is a special year, because of the fiscal rule epidemic, we do not have to respect – which is why we agree that we will not get things wrong. But one thing is that money is spent at times like these on things that are really necessary to keep jobs, to support the population, and another is blind cost. Because how did that money go? Why did we hit this 827 million minus by March 22nd this year? You gave it to companies that not only did they not keep jobs – if I recall Safilo, Adient, not only did they not keep them – they fired after they had collected state subsidies, all employees and left the country. And after we warned you in Levica and other opposition parties for months that you could not give employers or capital to the beautiful eyes of millions of public funds, but that they must follow some commitment. Indeed, even partial entry into companies that receive tens of millions of public money in order to be able to operate would be optimal. Then you distributed in a way that some doctors, as we were able to listen to this morning – interestingly, an orthopedic clinic, which was in no way in the first battle lines of the covid, paid for thousands of Euros per month, czech, an extraordinary situation. At the same time, those people in medical care who literally had been in suits all day sifting and dealing with covid patients who got some figurines. That's what your distribution of money looked like. What this distribution will look like, but it's even worse. 780 million euros will be launched for weapons, this is now accepted. You will start 1 billion euros a year for tax breaks for the richest. At the same time, you're phrasing that now you're just going to charm another 2 billion for health care and 600 million for long-term care will be higher pensions and so on. Like I said, we've seen this movie before, sobriety will come. But you act like this, when I quote Madame de Pompadour, who was very prophetic, she was Ludvik XV's mistress, said the last French king who died of natural causes was not beheaded, she said, “Après nous, only length.” After us, the flood. And that's exactly how you act. Now you're going to start all the money that the next government can do, and you don't care, they're going to deal with your minuses, they're going to buy weapons that you're going to sign contracts for, and they're going to have to deal with the crap that you're going to put into this system. That's what it looks like. If you happen to get another government, you are likely to be able to subdue the media, civil society, and so on, there will be no undue opposition by then. We will vote against it today, but at the same time we will do everything we can to ensure that this scenario is not reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have yet to see the last position of the Group of Members. Let me point out here that we are then going to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. The first will have the word Alenka Bratusek, then Dr. Franz Duck, Marko Bandelli, and so on. Now he has the word Joseph Horvat, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! For the sake of rational use of time, allow me to present at this point of the agenda the position of New Slovenia on both decrees. The Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija will support the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024, as well as the proposal for a regulation amending the Decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. It is perfectly legitimate and is expected that the headlines are already visible and heard that today's debate will show two. On the one hand, whether we want to have a free country of creative and entrepreneurial people, on the other hand, whether we want to have tightened and stifling socialism of the 21st century. The preparation of the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the sector is strongly under the influence of the emergency situation due to the epidemic. The uncertain situation and the unpredictable situation prevent the preparation of stable medium-term fiscal forecasts and therefore fiscal measures are to a greater extent planned only for 2022 and the targets for 2023 and 2024 merely indicate the expected direction of future fiscal policy. In the spring forecast, OMAR for 2020 estimates that the decline in economic activity was 5.5%, while stressing that the decline would be much larger without measures to limit the impact of the epidemic. At yesterday's meeting of the Finance Committee, we were given an assessment by the Director of the UMAR that the decline in economic activity would be higher by 4 percentage points, i.e. 9.5%, in the absence of all the measures taken, particularly the CAP. Some 300,000 jobs lost need to be added to this. This is proof that the measures were necessary, that the measures had been taken and that they had been effective and without them would have been very difficult to recover. Medium-term fiscal policy planning is very difficult and subject to extreme uncertainty due to changing circumstances. A more reliable medium-term fiscal strategy will be re-prepared after exceptional circumstances have ceased. Given the high levels of public financial deficits, it is likely that a programme to phase out deviations from the medium-term balance of public finances will need to be drawn up, as derogations will not be possible and will not be resolved without delay. The deviation from fiscal rules based on the instrument of exceptional circumstances is established at both national and EU level. At EU level, a general derogation clause is in force and its application will be decided at EU level next month. Given the information currently known, the European Commission notes that the use of the general derogation clause would be extended in 2022 as well. Fiscal policy will also be strongly influenced in the coming years by the consequences of the epidemic. In the light of exceptional circumstances and uncertainties, the country's deficit is thus planned over the next three years and will gradually decline following the 2020 and 2021 summits. This is in line with the recommendations of international institutions such as the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank that measures to support economic activity, despite the gradual recovery of economic activity, should not be withdrawn too quickly, as this could jeopardise recovery. It follows that even after the easing of the epidemiological situation, there is still a need for an incentive fiscal policy. One month ago, representatives of the International Monetary Fund completed their regular annual mission in Slovenia. As her leader explained after the completion of the mission, the talks focused on the coronal crisis and the policies by which it was already being resolved or was yet to be resolved. In Novi Slovenija we fully agree with the guidance provided by the International Monetary Fund to the Slovenian Government. Our first priority is still to contain the epidemic and provide extensive support to households and businesses until the interception is sufficient. Our predominant goal is to save human lives. Among the priorities recommended by the IMF to the Slovenian government in the formulation of further economic and fiscal policies, Nova Slovenija and the coalition will strive to maintain fiscal support until the economic recovery is strong enough. As an important priority, I would like to highlight the significant acceleration of digital transformation and investment in the green transition to enhance productivity and competitiveness. Also: due to the long-standing financial undernutrition of the public health system, we will propose a law on the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health care. With regard to the debt rule, it should be clarified that by the end of the 2021-2024 programming period, the country's debt ratio to GDP is projected to fall to 78 % of GDP. The decline in economic activity of 5.5% of GDP in 2020 was significantly lower than the forecast, while also lower than the average of the countries in the European area where it was 6.6%. Thus, the country's initial Slovenian debt of GDP in 2020 reached 80.8% of GDP, much lower than 101.7% of GDP, which is the average of the euro area countries. All of this shows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded effectively to the crisis. I agree with those who say that debt will be manageable if effectively spent. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the serious manipulations that this government will reduce pensions, I very clearly and resolutely inform the entire Slovenian public, especially the pensioners, not to possess manipulators who spread lies. Last year, this government and the coalition, including this year's 11th January, realised a good EUR 540 million in payments to pensioners in addition to regular pensions. I am thinking of regular harmonisation, extraordinary harmonisation under the new law, a double solidarity allowance under the new law and a regular annual allowance. If the public financial situation makes it possible, we will finally restore to the pensioners the dignity that they lost during the economic crisis that was forgotten in the previous left-wing governments. The pensioners know and feel in their wallets that they have an ally in the right - centred government, and they will continue to have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. The first one has the word "magic." Alenka Bratušek, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The fact is that numbers don't lie, and the fact is that numbers can be manipulated. That's a fact. Once again, I will be most affected by the reduction of pension funds in 2022. Unfortunately, that's not manipulation. I've shown you the graphics before. I can show you again. [[shows the object]] . You are reducing pension funds by 230 million in 2022. What you are planning as a pension fund is not enough to increase the number of pensioners. I'm sure the minister knows I'm right. Unfortunately. But okay, there may have been a mistake if you didn't mean it, but I think you've taken these numbers seriously because it's a serious document and a serious document needs to write the right numbers. As far as you're concerned with pensioners in 2022, you're going to have to lower your pension. It's a fact, it's no manipulation. Unfortunately, the same happened in 2012 when you – now I will correct the mistake I made – 25 000 pensioners were reduced by 25%. This is also a fact, and so has the right-centre government. And this same right-hand government, only one party switched, obviously intends to do the same maneuver in 2021. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance and I had a dialogue here on the level of funds, and it may be right to clear up the matter until the end. The financial plan of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2021, adopted in December 2019, provides for a total amount of expenditure of 6 billion 179 whole, in short 6 billion 180. The adopted law, which we unanimously confirmed — I believe about a month ago — calls for an increase of 70 million. And this is exactly what the government is proposing, so we're going to get to 6 billion 250. For 2022, this amount will only be raised by 0.8% and the increase in the number of pensioners is projected to be close to 1%. This is very simple mathematics. Between 4% and 5% of the funds go up a year, but in 2022 you planned so much less. By taking an interest in monitoring who will vote in favour of such a reduction in pension funds. The second big thing and the big problem, of course, is the height of public debt. When this government is over, Slovenia will be in charge of 45 billion and 22,000 euros each of Slovenians, that is a fact. That's a fact. Historically the highest public debt in the government, as I said earlier, which has cried for 10 years, how to care for healthy public finances without debt and what is wrong with the state if it is in debt. It is even more ironic that the third government led by the SDS is in charge of historically high debt, and the second government led by the SDS has reached its highest interest rates at any time. Anytime. And everyone else listens to the harm that we have done to our country. The third thing I would like to point out and appeal at the same time is that, this morning, I heard from the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that the employees of the DSOs in 2021 did not even receive the euro of payments of allowances. It's a shame. Shame on this government, shame on the state. You've already managed to make a billion-and-a-half losses, but you haven't been able to secure a single cent of it, not to say the euro for any employee in the DSOs. I don't think that's possible! I honestly don't think it's possible that things like this are happening. Therefore, here is the call for you to provide immediate money to pay the allowances for employees in the DSOs. They are already unworthy people, even after 7, 8, 9 euros you pay them, but neither have you paid them this year! So, Minister, here is really a public invitation to provide allowances not only for public servants, where you have also paid for thousands of 500 and more Euros of allowances, but also to immediately provide money for payment of allowances in the DSOs. In the Sab client, of course, we will do everything we can to ensure that your pension reduction manoeuvre is not successful. I hope those who talk a lot about what they do for the pensioners will also be helped. If this is a mathematical error, Minister, please tell us that a mistake has been made, that more money will be needed and that you will make this mistake or that we will correct it further. Because it's just these two options, either you're going to downsize or you're going to get the wrong number.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u28	Thank you very much. There has been a great deal of divisiveness about the decisions and it is right for me to respond to some. Some I have already, and it will probably be necessary to say one more and the same thing, although I have already said in the opening recital about pensions and comparisons, of course nominal ones, and not to take into account codified measures, not to take different methodologies into account, not to take account of the actual situation and so on. Of course, two numbers to compare can be very opportunistic. And once again, maybe I'll start with pensions, and I apologize for repeating what I've said. In 2021 it is expected to increase by slightly less than 6%. I don't think it's been that long since it's ever been in the history of Slovenia. And over the next few years, between 2 and 3%, that's what's planned. Of course, all inflation is also covered here, so that there will be no problems, because, even if inflation occurs, there will be automatic stabilisers here and it will not happen that the pensioners will receive any real less in any case. The second is, once again, we have two methodologies and ESA has a cash flow. The data here isn't the same. Since what has been compared, this decree has been amended six times since 2019, this decree has been amended six times. Six changes, of course, make it impossible to make a nominal comparison here. The forecast of gross social product has also changed six times and, of course, these comparisons are simply not appropriate. The current change in all data in these decrees is due to the spring forecast of the UMAR. The decree is in line with all the balance sheets of the Zpiza, the Health Insurance Institute and adapted to the ESA methodology. Once again, it's not the same as the cash flow. As a result of this linear addition, subtraction and comparison of course in this connection is not possible. As has been said, the nominal figures for the comparison of 2020-2021 actually show an increase of 0.8% in 2022. So once again, I reject the allegations that this is supposed to be about any reduction in pensions. Yesterday, I predicted that I would have to say it more than once today. The next question is the question of the full scope of this Decision or what it includes and what it does not include. It includes measures taken. This is said to include those measures taken by this National Assembly and, on the basis of three measures, includes expenditure. Why? This is because it is legally established because it is provided for by the Public Finance Act, which also includes the European Commission's budget directive. That's the limit. This is why there are no defined and no specific expenditure related to the various projects that are being discussed in public today. You listed some of them, some of them mixed up in the sense that one of them is already in effect. For example, the arms law, this law applies and here these expenses are taken into account if you want very mathematically. The law is clear there, but expenditure in connection with health changes, with changes in the protection of the elderly, in the field of tax change is not taken into account. Yeah, they're not. And these are the limits, and that's what the fiscal world knows in advance. Otherwise, it is not possible to do a project or if you want a regulation to state the assumptions and limitations set by law. This is why we are here to discuss these projects and so on. We can talk about how they will have an impact on the spending side, the revenue side and so on, that something is not appropriate, but we cannot say here that the government has not taken this into account because it did not want to. No, because he has a legal framework for this. Here there are different interpretations and so on, but I would still like to focus on what we have here today, with all the limitations, which is actually written and what I have finally said in this regard. It was also said that there is no analysis of the effects of measures in relation to co-vid crisis. The effects of the measures have already been mentioned today. I will not talk about the effects of measures that the government thinks are positive, or those that the government thinks are negative. Here we will only say what he said, for example, to the Fiscal Council yesterday and also in his documents. If there were no co-vids of measures taken by this government in the last year to simplify this time component slightly, the fall of gross social product would be one third more. In other words, this means close to 10%. UMAR: "If this government had not taken measures, the drop in gross social product would have been greater than 4 percentage points." That's not what I said, that's not what I calculated, that's not what the government calculated, that's what the Fiscal Council, the UMAR and so on. You also have similar assessments of international, European Commission, International Monetary Fund, Bank of Slovenia and so on. Similar assessments. There's probably another difference based on methodology and so on. So from this point of view, if you're talking about effects, I have to say at least briefly about some of the effects that are actually here. Many things have also been said about borrowing. As far as borrowing is concerned, I think this is what needs to be said. From the start, if you want, or don't know, from the beginning, Slovenia has been living with debt for several decades and the whole of Europe lives with debt and the whole world lives with debt. If we look at the international comparison – let's say that we focus only on European countries or the European Union countries – then we can find that, given the indicator that is based on the level of debt compared to the gross social product, the country in the first half of the countries that have the least debt. This debt is now around 80%, it is planned to decrease by 2 percentage points over the coming years. According to the gross social product, that's what this is all about. You have a comparison, I will not now list countries that have over 100% debt. And I'm not saying that's the goal of this government far from it. According to GDP, this government is reducing debt in absolute terms, at least as planned, and is increasing. Today, we are indebted to the evaluations of international agencies assessing the creditworthiness of countries assessing the financial capacity of countries assessing the stability of the financial system. Because of these estimates we have today, I can say, a favourable interest rate. Since the 14th. To date or to the beginning of the month, the average interest rate issued is 0.18%. You know that we have committed to issuing 10-year bonds at a negative interest rate, in other words, we have received more money than we will return. For the first time in history, we issued a 60-year-old bond. This shows that the financial markets believe in the stability of the state and the financial system and that they assess measures – as the International Monetary Fund estimates them, as part of the European Commission considers them – as proper measures that focus on maintaining the economy and not significantly increasing unemployment. Here I agree that there is a risk of an exit strategy, that there is a risk when you phase out these fiscal measures so that there can also be changes in the area of unemployment, bankruptcy policy and so on. We need to be prepared for this and we need to be prepared with greater flexibility so that people can work faster so that they can change jobs faster and so on. I believe that very few things will be the same as they were in 2019 and that the world will change. And within the world, Slovenia will also change and there will be no more blooms in the same activities if you want to in 2022 or 2023 as it was in 2019. But there will probably be some other opportunities, other challenges, as some say, to finding a place there also for Slovenia within Europe and the world and to simply increase such jobs, such a development that increases added value, thereby increasing economic growth and so on. But not with the objective of economic growth itself, but with the aim of greater prosperity for people, which includes many things, includes not only an economic or financial aspect of life. From this point of view and from the point of view of indebtedness, yes, Slovenia has since 14. 3. In the time of the government, Janez Janša owed 11 billion 718 million and repaid 3 billion 577 million debts. Net this means 8 billion 100 million at a weighted average interest rate of 0.18. For example, the government of Marjan Šarc owed 5 billion 297 million, paying 5 billion 579 million debt at a weighted interest rate of 0.50. The government of Mira Cerar has committed itself in completely different circumstances for around 21 billion and has repaid 17 billion and a half debt after a weighted average interest rate of 1.90. The government of Alenka Bratušek owed 12 billion and a half and repaid 3 billion 900 debt, a net debt of 8 billion 600, an interest rate of 3.59. Government of Borut Pahorje 13 billion 172, repayment of 5 billion 800, interest rate 4.24. The second government of Janez Janša 3 billion 700, repayment of a billion 400, at the time was a weighted average of 4.61. The first government of Janez Janša 14 billion 398, repayment of 14 billion 177, a weighted average interest rate of 4.10%. In this regard, I can conclude that some governments have owed themselves by increasing debt, so to speak, other governments have owed themselves about as much as they have repaid debts. However, it is significant or essential that we have at this time, I can now say historically, even though I say this with respect to that word, the lowest interest rate. For these debts, which we now owe, this interest rate will, of course, remain. If we are in the future and if there is a higher interest rate, this will apply to new debts. So, of course, this is the case now. This money, which we now owe to, is being used and we are indebted to because of the co-pid crisis. As you can see in the forecasts by 2024, the gross social product is expected to exceed this relative debt ratio, which means that debt is to be reduced in relation to the gross social product. The trend is towards a downward trend. From this point of view, I think that, even by the opposition here, I get some consensus or a minimum consensus on the need to be indebted, especially in order to save the economy and people here. However, it is always the border issue, of course, what else can be included in the expenditure directly linked to the co-vid, the expenditure indirectly linked to the co-vid, and where is the limit here for those non-accompanied expenditure. We may not agree in all respects here, but there is nothing wrong with it. If I can sum it up. If I look within the global framework, then there must be a big problem with accountability for all countries. If we use this money that we owe ourselves to effectively, then this money will be repaid. We will see to it that we do this effectively. We will also see to it that we retain and increase the well-being of people and that we do not reduce expenditure in the social, pension, health field. On the contrary, we will increase expenditure, for example, on the health field. The purpose is to increase the expenditure for the elderly, which is why it does not go together again, by no means, but it is necessary to make comparisons properly with regard to pensions. Why? Because we have, and so far, all governments here have given too little attention to the health field, according to my assessment. Also according to international comparisons of how much individual countries give for health care, again according to GDP. We're down here and we have to admit it. But we're gonna fix this. Even for long-term care. How many years has no home been built for the elderly? And we've been building a lot of other things, and we've been spending money in the last decades for a lot of other things, which I don't know if it was the most opportunistic thing that mattered. But now we're gonna change that. But it is true that these expenses, because they are not yet complete, are not in this decree because they cannot be. From this point of view, I would like to explain once again the debt, secondly the maintenance or increase of pensions, and even more, the money for long - term care, for health care, is increasing. Of course, you will also see this in future budgets, which will come partly in the summer and then of course in autumn, we all believe this. Why are we working on this data and these areas? Because we're going to come back in the fall with a new forecast, because that's twice a year because that's how things change. The European Commission also has an autumn semester. This is actually what I thought now in general, and this is not about any events that would shake up on the basis of these two decrees of Slovenia or anyone in this Slovenia or take anything away from it or reduce it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u30	I'd only want to make one mistake of my own when I was talking about reducing pensions, correcting them. I used the word that in 2012 you reduced your pensions by 25 thousand percent, which is, of course, a lapsus and my mistake. Unfortunately, however, 25 thousand pensioners have been reduced by 25%. I'm afraid that's true. But apparently, when I talk about pensioners and pensions, emotional and such a mistake can be made, which I apologize for. And once again, I wish, Minister, that in 2022 any such mistakes, not to say nonsense, do not make any mistakes. Of course, I'm talking about lowering pensions, which unfortunately comes out of the numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to repeat something that I think I've said here many times. If we want to talk seriously about debt or if you want to talk about the history of debt, I place a warm deposit on your heart, now there will be a few days off to read David Graeber's book Debt: the first 5,000 years of debt, it came out with Publishing /*cf in a beautiful translation by Branko Gradišnik, and it has 680 pages. You know, when it comes to debts, there is always a need to talk about political economics and geopoliticals. One is if Slovenia is indebted to so much and so much of GDP, the other is, if so much is owed to a larger European country, the third is, if so indebted, Japan is a good part of this long domestic debt. Mr. Minister, I've listened very carefully to you, and you've started something like this: yes, over the past 13 months, some predictions have changed six times, and that's why it can't be compared. Then you compared the government's debts for almost 20 years, which have worked under very different circumstances and conditions. If from where, we should learn something from the bank hole, from the financial crisis, from that story — what was it? - with Mr. Shekelly. It is a fact, and this has also been very politely told by the Fiscal Council that this government is acting too much, as if what tomorrow is going to be doesn't care what is excessive. It's a little unfair now, but it's kind of an impression. Why is covid good? Covid is good because in Slovenia he has discovered a rather plastered blanket, which would probably not have been discovered if there were no covida, by the end of this decade, which has shown us that we have a developmental decade behind us, if not for 20 years. This government, with some policy that you are going through, as Luke described beautifully, opens wide-ranging budget scissors, which will be very difficult to close in the next two governments if the full mandate is to be completed. The second story to be forgotten, and we will not now be using methodologies, is the so-called production gap. The forecast, the calculation of the production gap for the period of these changes and the framework, is negative up to the middle of this decade. What does this mean in a language that I translate to be understood by most people? Our economy, which is already very small in its structure over time compared to the countries to which we want to compare, will not work optimally. It'll work under its own optimist. These are some facts that, if you add them up, you come into some dangerous interference. When the situation in some key markets and in key EU countries improves slightly, the pressure of these countries will go back to the golden fiscal rule, as some would say, or if you want to go to German ordoliberalism, even if the chancellor has a scarf, we know so much about some key European countries. I can agree with you, Mr Minister, that it will somehow turn out to be both in us and elsewhere, that certain sectors of the economy have been kept in nursing facilities which have been slightly better than golf courses, but it would be better to cut them off in time for something else. If anyone listened to part of this debate, they'd think we were talking about pension reform. If I survive politics on my own, and if I ever become a pensioner, I will never vote and support customers who throw eyelashes at their pensioners. The pensioners and pensioners you talked about really live a poor quality of life. Given the literal sacrifice over the decades they have given us to have the quality of life we have in Slovenia, we should be smarter than politics. I'm afraid so, Minister, there's no law that says there's a legal opinion, but it wouldn't hurt. I've said many times that the best demographic fund is an investment in young people. I have to point my finger here, after all, at the Chamber of Commerce. If I'm listening, I'm looking at the Chamber of Commerce, and it seems to me that this political economy suits them, and the worker is the sausage that cuts it. Of course, until he proves something to anyone, he is innocent, but we now have a condition that the right hand of Zdravca Restovalska, who is the head of the mask affair, as the Court of Auditors has shown, becomes the new Sonja Economic Chamber of Slovenia. On the shadow side of the Alps near our neighbours, the Austrians – because not everything is beautiful there also have a populist who is slowly full of them, but believe me, what could not happen there. The fiscal council also tells you clearly that in these relatively short, sceptical documents there is no foreseeable impact of yours, let us give them the words of tax reform or of a dog, as our Jani said. Then you have an optimistic forecast of how the vast majority of the RRFs will reach future cohesion by 2024. Look, not only the foxes on Pohorje, but also the push-ups who are pushing out in front of parliament today, know that this is not going to be the case because we are late, different governments, and now we are talking about back. Then, you know, different assessments, different methodologies. This government has kept on saying that as a matter of fact, we have kept 300,000 jobs here, and the future president of the National Assembly is still saying that. Bank of Slovenia analysts said – how much? Sixteen thousand, maybe. This is a step apart — how much? For 18 wholes three quarters, although basically, as I say in the human language, the living God does not know how it will be in 2023 or 2024 with jobs. Instead of moving us away from some general chatter and a green digital thing. No EU, no living God will think of our future development instead of us. But like you said, Mr. Minister, it's kind of like this: okay, because the covid waves are going to calm down slowly, we know that then there's a severe storm, we don't even know what our boat is like, and someone else is going to decide how we're going to sail. You know, according to the same logic as you put it, Slovenian meteorologists would say: Madonna, because the weather changes daily, weekly, seasonal, because this is not comparable, let alone predict. We have Slovenians of one of the best meteorologists, by the way, for serious sailing exploits, even better models, even for sailing, unlike Slovenian governments. Maybe – not possible, we should learn something from their modeling. Then this government has a very negative human resources policy – it is important that it is ours. Then we will have today's agenda when we combine incompatiblely, unlike that non-paper that has been talked about a lot lately. We don't know what our recovery plan is going to be, it's hidden out there in some of the halls of Pozvalski, which isn't the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. I've already given up on the smart specialization strategy, it's said that there's too much cabinet work to do and a new version of it, and I hope we're not going to write it again, we're going to do it smart first, fifth, sixth, and finally nothing. These are some of the facts that require reading these documents. And don't apologize to the methodology, don't apologize for the changes. They said you can never get into the same river. If we live in some societies that live under the political economy of economic growth, there is, of course, a constant change. What is ahead of us is insufficiently thorough and insufficiently analytically prepared. What is ahead of us is somehow not thinking enough of some bound vessels that you should think of when you're preparing the budgets of the country's sector, how we, my children would say, will remain our sailing out of this, as we say in Maribor, the bull in which we found ourselves. But what this government is doing and predicting – you know, Miro Cerar was doing something in the early years in Alan Ford's guitar, but this government is a bigger superpower than Cerara's government, and that government wasn't exactly an orgasm. We have a problem. We've been going to the country for 30 years, and we've been going on for 30 years. Earlier, at eight o'clock we had a meeting and then it comes up – this is especially true for people who come from my foho, I agree with Han here, and some professors fall we think we know everything. The fuck we know. He said, yes, when I became Minister of Public Administration, but I didn't mean it, and I didn't mean it. Yes, then, let us say that such a person cannot become a minister of public administration or for anything else, it is necessary to manage functions somehow. Slovenian finance ministers are not ministers for the political economy, which they should basically be. I mean, it's not just the finance minister who's pushing our losses a little bit over there, if I put it that way. That's what I'm trying to say. I used to be hard on the Left, but now I'm trying on the Social Democrats. A party without a serious macro-economy or more, without serious people thinking of a political economy, is not a party, rather a club of people with personal interests. Such amendments and budget frameworks cannot be supported, but colleagues have already made it clear in their views why not. And that, instead, and by the side of the coalition and by the side of the opposition, the roost, who is the bigger loser for the pensioners – the pensioners and the pensioners are not stupid. Stop making a fool of them, and don't say what I have at the end of my tongue, from myself. It is necessary to start to think about the development of the Republic of Slovenia, to think about how our production gap will go to plus when we calculate how our production gap will go to plus in some otherwise structured sectors of the economy, how we will close the budget slots and not open them even more. You know, because the moment will come, people who spend their whole lives working on saying, "Look, it's not, it's got too much to do, these positive discriminations, these social transfers will be gone in the medium term," or, "those holes on the road won't be able to patch up for that and that." And of course also: "Unfortunately we cannot close budgets differently than by increasing these benefits." I don't know, a property tax. Not some kind of populism. And if we look – I conclude – they have the most problems these days where there are overly empty populists in power who are always eloquent in a infantile way: others are to blame for everything, the situation today is so extraordinary that it cannot be compared with anything. And now that's not enough, now we're going to say, yes, the methodology is such that we can't compare. Let's stop this infantilism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next debate is mag. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, prepare Mr. Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Very nice greetings, Minister and all the other colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again listening to the debate in the negative direction that this government does not give to pensioners, but still intends to take them away. We listen to how poorly decreed, we hear how everything is wrong with our state finances. But unfortunately we are once again witnessing the opposition's deception, because we know that the opposition is always trying to show how the country wants to reintroduce Zujf in future people. Many times it has been said that Zuifa will not introduce this government and that this proposal of decree, as before you today, shows how the government has a hearing for people, has a hearing for social work. At this point in time, the whole country, both the population and the economy, needs to step in to help people. It is necessary to step up because if the state does not help with public finances to raise economies, to raise economic growth at as low interest rates as it is today, then we will only be able to monitor and look at a worse situation in the coming years towards other countries in Europe. This government is working to establish a state like that before the covida-19 epidemic. That is, we are taking the decision again so quickly today – because you are asking why – because we are witnessing daily changes in the situation in the markets, the situation in people’s lives. It is therefore also necessary to react to state finances. Of course, this points to a deviation from fiscal rules, as if they had not deviated from fiscal rules, public finances would have been difficult to adapt to what the epidemic now dictates. In the work where you want mainly colleagues from Alenka Bratušek to show that pensioners will be denied pensions in the future, that this is the ability to understand from the figures – no, the ceiling of the expenditure for the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute will be increased, as has been said several times by the Ministry. So let us cut to the point that someone wants to show up in a better light at the expense of the pensioners. This government has given the pensioners in the PKP packages and will continue to stand on their side so that they will not be taken away, because unfortunately pensions are already so low and the previous governments have done nothing in the past to fix anything about pensions. That's why I think it's time to stop this deception and just say good-bye. At the same time, no one knows which direction the epidemic will go in the coming period, whether it will calm down or whether we will witness further exacerbation. That's why it's hard for anyone to tell what kind of finances will be in the future. And that is the key to how to draw up the budget for the coming periods. Let us not forget that if we do not help the economy, we will have problems both in the labour market and in consumption and investment. Therefore, thank the Government for being able to draw up a budget that is sustainable for people and for the economy in these difficult situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Igor Pecek. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! At first, I will be critical of myself — even though I could be to someone else — which is not the custom that would be appropriate for this house. Because unfortunately, I cannot tell you how, and especially with what likelihood that it will be true, it is necessary to make the transition from expansion to restrictive fiscal policy, which will be necessary after everything we know and know to predict. I don't think I can do that in numbers here. With populism, yes — and I have learned something that I hope to soon forget — but I do not want to do it with populism. In fact, I am deeply aware that in situations where we are experiencing an epidemic, it is extremely difficult to predict what will happen in three or four years' time, especially in what condition our economy will be in. However, as is evident from the proposal for a decree for the period 2023-2024, the Government foresees a reduction in the nominal deficit, which, of course, can be regarded as positive, but at the same time you are predicting a more restrictive fiscal policy. How, I don't know, you will probably explain this to us, Minister, given that the Fiscal Council, whose opinion you say, respect, and also take into account, is very clear that projections in a certain part of the expenditure are not realistic, or otherwise, would require action to be taken, but are not presented in these documents. Of course, the Minister explained in the introduction that the draft resolutions do not take into account the changes planned for the future, which are based on the existing bases, and of course you can explain this and it is perfectly legitimate that the legal basis is those that define it for you. But simply in such a more practical language, it means that we are working on a plan for the future, which we already know will not be feasible. I speak in multitude because I'm alone anyway because I'm sitting here in this house, responsible for it. In my opinion, such an act is irrespective of what, let's say, legitimate, irrational. The increase in expenditure, from the state budget, is projected to reduce revenue. That's inevitable. For all the proposals being planned, there is no plan on what will be done on the revenue side, and it is obvious that this difference will have to be covered by additional debt or by the funds obtained on the basis of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. However, one of the debates has already said, and I myself have said this in my position, and the Fiscal Council has said this, that it is very difficult to believe and hope that within three years we will really get as much from European funds as you plan. I already asked you a question yesterday that you didn't answer, and I might be asking you today to at least contaminate. You say that, after exceptional circumstances have ceased, a programme of gradual correction of the differences between the medium-term balance of public finances will need to be prepared in view of the high value of government deficits. I'm asking you to at least tell me with a few sentences in some way. I think that this poverty of the revenue side of the budget is fixed or foreseen at the most inappropriate time. Of course, I might like that, because maybe my family budget or some other family budget will have a higher income in the family treasury, but I have to look at this place differently. As far as the LMSH reviews are concerned. Personally, I am not in the LMŠ Group and we have never opposed the measures, nor the investments that are urgently needed both to restart certain activities and to other sectors for faster recovery, including debt. But we are against proposals that, if I say so at the time of health and economics, conjunctures undermine the sustainability of the public financial system, and that is what concerns us. When we talk about ratings and the debt you say is manageable – yes, I agree. It is manageable as long as the effect of spending this money is visible, and as we like to say, multiplier. But, Minister, when you mentioned the effects, we never said the measures didn't have them. We have said, however, that we need to correct some of the effects that we have potentially anticipated. I'm thinking mostly about the guarantee scheme here. This has been happening since last summer, and today, for example, they are very much warning that this scheme is inactive, both innkeepers and the tourism sector, or all those who will urgently need money, so that they can buy rematerial again to start production because they have spent this money. And here, Minister, I appeal to you to speed up this procedure, to conclude an international agreement and get permission to simplify this scheme. This is your mission, I'm sorry. As far as the interest rate is concerned — yes, 0.18. You mentioned the interest rates before. At least by my logic, the interest rate doesn't change from today to tomorrow, unless there's a collapse, then. But in principle, it's a reflection of a certain state of affairs, of some kind of financial policy. It's never a hypnotic collapse. And yes, the government of Marjana Sharca was in debt of 0.50, but at that time we were at 66% and we were approaching the Maastricht criteria. At that time, we also owed ourselves to refinance or reprogramme certain loans. You'll probably admit that to us. You are right to say that the fiscal world and Umar say that the fall of GDP would be even greater if there were no action. But you also have to look at everything else the Fiscal world says. We need to be right here, both you and us, and at the end of the day, we also need to take action, to the ministry in general. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dejan Židan, prepare Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u38	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Hello, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! The decree we are discussing today is often not one of the broad debates, and this time it is a decree. I'll tell you from my heart what I was thinking when I was preparing for today's session yesterday, and I believe you will understand. Do you remember that song by Slovenian author André Šifrer, he also wrote: “Who will give for the drink when the country dies?” When I think about you, I'll change that a little bit. Then I'll write: "Who will give for the drink when the social state dies?" Second thing. When I read your numbers, I have the feeling that the basic material of the book is from ancient times – you may remember who wrote it – a state and a revolution that also speaks of the resting of the country, which leads to the dictatorship of the proletariat. This book does not, of course, speak of the fact that the retirement of the state will lead to the dictatorship of the richest and most friendly, neighbouring countries, who are actively present when you are leading your policy. This week, too, last week is essentially the days when the information for the future of the Slovenian country is, unfortunately, increasing. Your ruling with all these minuses, with an increase in percentages, and what the former President of the Government has also warned about, unreasonable numbers on some items, is bad information. I also understand why bad information is – you yourself wrote that you were also based on the fact that life will begin to relax in Slovenia at some point in time because the measures will be effective because people will be vaccinated. Obviously, you were not among those who rejected almost half a million vaccines in the government at the end of December, which would actively protect an additional quarter of the million Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, but will not be, because you were one of the three countries that rejected this vaccine. We talked about this a lot a week ago, but we will continue on Wednesday next week on the competent Health Committee. This disappointment is also very much yours – and it affects what will happen in the coming years, as well as the specific decree – the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. A plan where the general public participated only figuratively. In closed rooms, rooms of the government palace, you prepared it, you changed it, you experienced criticism, and in the end you surprised us with a table that is quite different from what you predicted. “Yes, we have raised 5.2 billion, which we will make full and rapid use of to start Slovenia,” and look at the tables, not the spirit or hearing of 5.2 billion. Two billion less. Of course, apologies have already begun to rain this week, but that is quite different from what you predicted. When you look at the structure between the return and the non-refundable and also what you've included among the non-refundables, it's not just money from NOO, because it's not there for 2 billion, so the general number is even lower. That's the next bad information. And then the following information. Even now, you have been calling us off with a lot of unreasonable moves, and you have voted us down, the others who warned you, because you made a similar mistake years ago, so that in such times incomes should not be reduced. By now, your proposals represent a reduction in revenue to state treasury. Don't even talk about what you're predicting. By the way, I've sent you a request these days. I don't want to talk to numbers that I'm not quite sure they're holding. Because there are from half a billion to 1 billion new holes in the budget in the public. But I know your numbers that you have at your disposal – you have a machine that is powerful, with all the institutions in the background – I suppose they will be more accurate, so please, Mr Minister, to answer as soon as possible the question I have asked this week. However, it appears that you are following some logic that some call Reagan’s economy — let’s cut taxes, let’s cut contributions, because then things will get better. It's like heaven came to earth directly in three or four steps. But the problem is that even in theory, this theory doesn't work, let alone in practice. It does not work that when the richer ones become richer, the small ones with richly coated tables fly largely to the middle class and to those who are in a more difficult position. It just doesn't work. It only works in such a way that the differences within society increase. It works in such a way that the result is really what my opening thought was — who will give the drink when the social state dies? Those who love our people who love our country, of course we will not give for the country in a way that the country takes a step, two or three years ago, in order not to protect the people who need the most. At that time, those who want to be richer and rich will be toasted. I must say that the numbers you have presented are largely, Mr Minister, I believe they are not due to your reflection. You're a rational person, you know how to count, count, and predict, but you've taken over the burden that's impossible. It's a burden to create something that can't be created. Plan to reduce the revenue of state treasury and promise more rights, but this is not possible. It does not go in theory either – but at any stage, in secondary school, in college or in doctoral – not in practice. That is why I am quite sure when I look at these numbers and all the promises you make in advance that the government that will come for your third government will be extremely difficult. The government, which was for your first and second government, has already been in an impossible situation. And I remember what it was like, but the government, which will be your third government, will have an impossible situation. Part of this situation is also shown by the numbers you have displayed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I have a chance to answer some of the questions, the dilemmas you've put. First, I would try to answer, but it concerns both honourable Members, macro-economic issues, tax-related growth, the social state and so on. Let me begin by asking Mr Pecko how to make an expansionary fiscal policy more restrictive and so on. This, of course, has to do with the social state, if I now mention both points of origin here. This government has done, I think, a great deal for social services. I think that social expenditure in such or other forms has never reached as many people as it is today. Of course, I can talk about billions, 3.5 billion and so on, and there is also a reason to say. The reason that we helped with the expansion of monetary policy is now, of course, an epidemic. Even in the light of international comparisons, we are one of the most income-equal countries according to the Gini Index and so on. I'm sorry I don't know where we are right now, but I think it's between the first three or the first five if we compare it within the European Union. So in terms of income inequality and so on, when we talk about this data, I cannot say here that the social state will now die. No, the social state is increasing with regard to the share we give to social services from different ministries. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish what rights are and what is social. Here I may be working with regard to the general opinion of some difference. The fiscal world has announced that we now have a strong expansion fiscal policy and that this strong expansion fiscal policy will decline in the coming years into a less expansive fiscal policy. This is also reflected in the figures in this decree, where we are talking about reducing the deficit, this deficit reduction trend. All these measures imposed by the epidemic cannot last forever. There is no eternity here, I agree with that, because we have limited financial and other resources. This will, of course, lead to the abolition of these measures in the exit strategy, and this policy will be less expansive, and if you want, more restrictive. Although it's about this strictness, I'm going to say again, the question of what does that really mean? If we talk about this, of course it will take a few years to come back to the fiscal rule, so to speak, where the revenue will be the same as the expenditure, to simplify it a little bit. A few years, and these years are already listed here. Here is now the issue of this fiscal rule throughout Europe and how it will actually work, in what way and whether these criteria will still be the same as they were, or whether they will change. Here we have a question where you say what we now have these numbers according to the whole situation. This decree was established by the Fiscal Rule Act and works much better in normal conditions than in situations that are not normal, which we have today because we have an epidemic. Some countries have also written in their fiscal rules that, in times of emergency, such decisions do not have to be made because they show certain unrealities. We just have this written in the law, and in the law we have restrictions that I have actually talked about, because of this once again, I have mentioned all the assumptions on which they actually work. Another question is here. We are making a plan for the future, we are doing it twice a year, and I am already predicting that we will be correcting these forecasts in the autumn in view of new economic growth. How to increase inflows? By lowering taxes, with higher economic growth, with greater development, by increasing added value. This is, if you want, the option we actually see here. Economic development also gives rise to greater inflows. And if today we are talking about having the most taxed workforce in Europe – and this is shown by the OECD tables, not by the Ministry of Finance – then we have a negative impact on competitiveness here. That is why we do not achieve such economic development, such added value, we do not invest in the most stimulating activities and so on. This is the answer in relation to the issue of tax reductions and the reagnostics that have been discussed at times and a little less today. However, there is always a balance as much as we can bear with taxes on workers, employers, individuals, the economy and so on. But it is always necessary to look for some of the most optimal variants. Today, on the other hand, we also tax the money of individuals that is urgently needed for life. The border here is 7 000, even slightly more than 7 000 euros – this is the principle of action, if you want, of human rights, not to tax the money that is urgently needed for life – if it is 6 000, 7 000 euros, most countries also have such a general ease. We've been taxing this for 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I must say, it was very interesting to follow this chameleon salad of the opposition in its criticisms of yesterday. Yesterday was the meeting of the home Committee on Finance, which addressed the same topic as today at the meeting of the National Assembly, namely the budget or budget rebalancing until 2022 and the new draft budgets from 2022 to 2024. Until yesterday, you have been extremely critical that the Government devotes little resources to the economy, to municipalities, to pensioners, to students, to culture, to NGOs. It has been a constant criticism that insufficient funds are being spent, or you have been advocates of even greater financial spending. Now, yesterday and today, you claim and strongly criticize that the government is in debt, spending too much money and so on. I understand that the opposition must be critical of the government's work, that is understandable to me, but if I now compare the difference between your criticisms, which are only two days old, you are completely contradictory. You have previously advocated increasing spending, underexpenditure, you have not supported any anti-Korona package; eight have been accepted. These anti-Korona packages distributed to citizens, distributed to the economy, kept jobs, distributed additional funds to municipalities, more funds to pensioners, more funds to families with more children, students. In short, people got the money. And second of all, the money was meant to protect people's health. These are the extraordinary circumstances caused by covid-19, and of course the expenditure is higher than it would have been in normal condition. I think that this is one completely logical and professional and constructive debate and understanding for someone who wants to understand. On the other hand, I would say that this imaginary critical clairvoyance for 2024 is such that a person smiles a little. I'm not a financier, but I'm a builder. We are listening here today: the pension will go down, the state will go bankrupt, Mr Jew said the country will die, and so on. And I am here today to advocate that pensions will rise in line with economic growth, and I advocate and actually predict that my predictions are that the country will have one of the biggest economic growth in Europe. Slovenia will be among the first three countries. I am not saying this, I am speaking on the basis of the largest state investments that will be made and are already under way. I'm talking about the construction of the second track, I'm talking about the construction of the third development axis of the north, the construction of the third development axis of the south, the tunnel of the Karavanka is already being built, homes for the elderly are being built, then there are investments in the railways, the start of the housing scheme and after the epidemic are actually going to start all the services that are now being deconstructed or closed. Construction gives the biggest boost to the economy in the country and if the economy is successful, then this accumulation is to charge the budget, then it is not to be feared for the state budget either. When I listen to these anomalies here today, “we will reduce the pensions” and “the state will die” – we in last year and, together with this year’s citizen, we have distributed 3 billion 700 to this day, and another nine anti-korona package is being prepared. This says 3 billion 700 has been distributed to citizens. In comparison, however, it was stolen from state banks from 2008 to 2011, according to the National Assembly's Investigative Commission, about 4.5 billion in agreed loans, which were previously known never to be reimbursed. Then the debt write-offs were transferred to the DUTB and so on. More has been stolen than is now, at the time of the epidemic, it has been distributed to citizens. I would say that I am pleased that that story is not yet concluded, because certain information on those irregularities will also come to light so that these irregularities will be clarified. Finally, I must say that this document is good and that those who know the composition of the state budget know that it consists of two segments. The first part is a variable part, this is a real development programme plan covering all the largest investments already under way and still planned. The second is the so-called fixed part where there are more or less fixed costs which do not deviate very much during the year, and on this basis long-term plans are made. Today to listen to this political connotation, the country will die and so on – I don't know if you were at the spore yesterday to discuss today in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Susana Lepi Šimenko, prepare for Mr Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, we have on the agenda a proposal for a framework for the preparation of budgets, which is, of course, a basic document, so that the Ministry can approach the preparation of budgets for the coming years itself or to amend the budget at the next point. The drafting of the decrees takes place in a truly extremely uncertain period. I don't remember ever being in a similar situation in the country. In a period where we simply do not know what lies ahead, whether we will be able to completely contain the virus and return to normal life, which depends to the greatest extent on the epidemiological picture, on the very bridging of citizens and citizens. There has been a lot of criticism today, as has already been said, about the debt itself. Yes, of course, we have taken a number of measures that have been necessary to ensure that citizens and citizens have kept their jobs. It is essential that we have kept jobs, and it is essential that the coming budgets be set up in a way that we will gain additional jobs, better paid jobs, and not least that we are burdening the salaries of citizens themselves, which is, of course, other measures already in preparation and already in the National Assembly. What is extremely important and what the Fiscal Council itself has said is that if we did not adopt eight PKP packages, all of these measures, the decline in economic activity would be one third more. This means that everything that has been done has been done right and done for citizens and citizens to preserve their jobs. And that's the key. What disturbed me the most in today’s debate is the words of colleague Alenka Bratušek. She said that this decree was a disgrace to this government, that it was a manoeuvre to reduce pensions, that in our previous government pensions had been reduced by 25,000 percent. Of course, she later said it was a lapsus, but that lapsus didn't happen for the first time. This lapsus has happened once in the past, and here we really ask ourselves about its honesty. Is it simply a matter of misleading and some unrealistic announcements and, of course, a number of left - handed media are summed up with great joy? Let me say that, as the Slovenian Democratic Party in the previous term, we have often wanted to correct the injustices in the area of pensions, for example, if I expose farmers to pensions if I expose them to invalidity pensions. And when could changes finally take place? During this government. During last year, farmers' pensions have been repaired and the lowest invalidity pensions will be higher next month. Finally, we were able to correct a number of injustices. If ever, it was most designed for the pensioners at this time. Those with the lowest pensions received the solidarity allowance twice. The lowest full-time pension is raised from €581 to €620. December 2020 was an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions by 2%, with 1. 1. 2021 was a regular harmonisation of pensions by 2.5%, and this year again will be the end of the year. And if there's anything I can say with certainty, it's that pensions will certainly not go down like they didn't go down in the past. This deception seems really unacceptable to me. Thank you so much for saying that. But of course, I am absolutely in favour of the decree itself, and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jure Ferjan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u46	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members, Members and all those who look at us are warmly greeted! In these two minutes, however, I will try to get some more of my thoughts on today's debate. There was a lot of deceiving, but there were also some facts, and it is right to expose the facts. And it is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša, places people first, places the economy and that pensioners are, as one of the important groups of stakeholders in our country, very high priority. This is what the facts and actions of this government are talking about. More than 300,000 pensioners with the lowest pensions received two solidarity allowances totalling 260 and 460 and 600 euros respectively. There was an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2 % last December and regular reconciliation of pensions of 3,2 % from 1. 1. 2021 on. Of course, we cannot let go of the tourist voucher, which has also been received by all pensioners. So please don't fool yourself about lowering your pensions. Under the leadership of Janez Janša, the government of the Republic of Slovenia has not reduced pensions and will not reduce pensions. On the contrary, this government, as I said, has already raised pensions and is also forecasting for this year by almost 6%, and for 2022 and for the coming years between 2% and 3%. One of the key priorities of the coalition contract is the demographic fund and the regulation of long-term sustainable care for the elderly, so that the age of the body will also be safe, beautiful and peaceful. So please don't fool me. Pensioners who have received State aid know that this government is doing well and that it also works for the benefit of pensioners and pensioners. Two more words of debt. This government is committed to refinance the debt to help people and to get us out of this crisis as winners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We're done with the debate. Since the time set for the debate has remained, I ask if anyone else wants a word based on time-sharing. I see you don't. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. No amendments have been adopted by the home working body to the draft decree and no amendments to the final provisions have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a ruling will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. The draft decree was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Complementary Explanation of the Proposal for a Decree. Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! The proposal for a decree in the framework of the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2022-2024 for the State sector in 2022 provides for a deficit of 5,7 % of the gross social product in 2023 of 3,8 % and 2,8 % of the gross social product deficit in 2024. In other words, this deficit is declining. For the State budget, a deficit of 4,9 % of the gross social product is foreseen in 2022, in 2023 3,6 %, in 2024 2,5 % of the gross social product. Even in the area of the state budget, the country's somewhat narrower sector, the deficit is expected to decrease. A surplus of 0.1% of gross social product is also foreseen for municipalities and for pension and health allowance balances. The decree is prepared today, as I say, when we still have extraordinary uncertainties. As I mentioned earlier, this uncertainty is diminishing in terms of grafting. Here we are on the right track in these years, especially in 2023, 2024 we will live and also rule in perfectly normal circumstances. However, because of uncertainty or uncertainty in the past and because of all the measures taken, we still have a deficit in public cash registers. We expect that the European Commission will extend the exceptional circumstances and thus derogate from the rules in force and, of course, also allow us not to follow a strict fiscal rule in 2022. This has already been indicated in past communications, but I think this will happen in May, when the European Commission for the euro area and the other countries will also have a more complete economic and financial picture. At this point, I would just like to point out that this decree foresees a still-balanced balance, which was a formal comment by the Law-Legal Service, here the government service feels differently from the Law-Legal, but this is essentially just a formality, the content does not change. In this regard, I would like to reiterate that these projections were made on the basis of the current plan for the growth of gross social product, based on UMAR, the latest forecast made by UMAR a few weeks ago, and that there are also projections in this regard that significantly increase investment, in this case now state investment, because private consumption is less and thus works pro-cyclically. On the other hand, I say that pension expenditure is projected, and in 2021 an increase of 5.9, and in the following years a growth rate of 2 to 3% is also consistent with all public treasury. Here I might also like to draw attention to the inconsistencies that have arisen in the different interpretations of the calculations. We are talking about the so-called category of social transfers, which are defined differently, as I can see, and we also need to take into account the transfer of Zpiz to the health treasury. Dear Members, after exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to ensure that fiscal policy does not threaten recovery during the medium term. That's what we do with this decision. It will allow this to not happen, so I suggest you support this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word "magic." Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The adoption of the previous decision, which referred to the period 2022 to 2024, has already been said to a great extent, but despite the fact that some things need to be stressed in this decision. The fact is that the decree for the period 2020-2022 has already been adopted by our Government, which was published on 25 April 2019. To this day, you've changed this decree three times. There's a fourth shift ahead of us today. I can agree that any new macroeconomic forecast needs to adapt these figures, but the fact is that the spring forecast on which changes in your numbers are supposed to be based does not change significantly in aggregates affecting public finances, economic growth remains practically the same. While the macroeconomic situation does not change badly, I say this, according to the AMAR forecast of spring of this year, but you have radically changed the image in public finances. You increase the budget deficit from 5.7% to 8.6%. You're planning more than 4 billion losses this year, the same loss you made last year. All of these are numbers that, of course, must worry us and give us anxiety. In addition, these numbers, which you have written in the decree, simply do not add up. Action under intervention laws is supposed to be a billion and a half, you raise expenditure by 800 million. You will gain 700 million in one way or another; the minister said 300 million absolutely with savings. Yeah, that's nice, but now tell me where someone is. Is there a chance the pensioners are on strike here? Are you here to reduce the investments that you like to praise during this period, wages, social transfers? 300 million is not enough money. It's the other way around. These figures show that revenue will also be reduced by around €600 million this year. Not a word about where, what, why, what mistakes have been made in budget planning and what else and what else these things could be listed. Historically high public debt has been mentioned several times today, and this is the fact that Slovenia's indebtedness has never been – 80.8% of gross domestic product, 37.4 billion euros. When you leave the government, our country's debt will amount to as much as 45 billion or slightly less than 22,000 euros per capita! However, it should be made clear that in the pension box in 2021 you will write exactly the same number as you need to. Just the way it's supposed to be. The financial plan of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, following the financial plan adopted in December 2019, provides for expenditure of 6 billion total 79 and some, says EUR 6 billion 180 million. Last month we jointly accepted the novel Zpiz, our novel, which says we were first signed under it in the party SAB. The novela reduces the transitional period, the dose percentage will be higher in 2021 and 2022 than originally foreseen, and we have some more, I will just say, damaged categories of pensioners. This novel is supposed to cost the country the national budget of €70 million and you are correcting the cashier's number of the Zpiz to €6 billion 250 million. It appears that pensioners in 2021 are safe, so far, from the intervention of this government into pensions. Unfortunately, the story of 2022 is very different. Finally, once again, my great disappointment has been experienced by the Commission on Public Finance Supervision today. This is that we have found that employees in the DSOs, including those who work in red zones, are said to be the most exposed employees, did not get paid either the euro this year, nor a cent of the allowance. It is a disgrace, a government, a state, but above all it is unacceptable for people who work with the sick to endanger their lives in this way. On 23 April, they did not receive a single euro, given that you have already made a billion and a half losses in the state budget. Dear Minister, of course we will not support this decree, but it is no news. The opposition is just doing its job, it is not obliged to support – and we do not support them if they are bad – government measures and government matters. But here's the real appeal that you give people who work with patients what's theirs. Since this is not just about the government, it is about the country and it is about people who really care about the sickest, the most problematic, and you have been ignoring them all year 2021. I'm asking you to take care of these things. On the Commission for the supervision of public finances today, the State Secretary of the Ministry for the work of this sad statement also confirmed. You don't have to figure out if my words are true or not, but just get things right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budgetary framework, which sets the ceiling for expenditure, is one of the measures that increase budgetary transparency and improve the planning of expenditure of all four public funds. The starting point of any applicable fiscal policy is the extent of public spending, and this scope is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and public services. It is inconceivable that this debate, or a more precise warning, is given against the various forms of risks of not achieving measurable goals. Their reality and reachability are burdened during the epidemic and economic crisis with complete unpredictability. This time the amendments to the decree for this year concern the state sector, the state budget and the pension fund. The maximum allowed expenditure for the state sector is increasing from 24 billion and 900 million to 25 billion and 300 million, from the state budget from 13 billion and 520 million to 14 billion and 320 million, and from pension bills from 6 billion and 180 million to 6 billion and 250 million. The planned differences between revenue and expenditure for the state sector and for the state budget, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product, are also changing. This is also the most illustrative information on the dimensions of the intensity and extent of the crisis we are dealing with. The basic decree was adopted two years ago. At that time, a target balance of +1.1 % of GDP was planned for the sector. Then, in autumn 2020, it was fixed to –6.6%, with the proposed amendment increasing to –8.6%. It's quite similar at the state budget level. At first, it was planned plus +1.2% and then reduced to -5.7 and today's change to -8.6%. All of this is a reflection of crisis response measures, prices of these measures, which are either temporary or interventional or additional in nature. We highlight in particular the remuneration for working time and its extension; the exemption to pay contributions for all social insurance; the exemption to pay contributions for pension and disability insurance for those who work; solidarity allowances for pensioners and other vulnerable groups; hazard allowances and special burdens during the epidemic; the payment of cashed tourist vouchers; the subsidisation of reduced working time; exceptional aid in the form of basic monthly income; and the partial reimbursement of non-covered fixed costs for businesses. It cannot be overlooked that all of this has also been the result of very underestimating and depravating assessments. As always, however, the most generous are those who do not have an impact on making key decisions, who imagine that they are inadmissibly disadvantaged with all their merits and abilities. How can we determine what kind of crisis we are facing? This is now clear, it is not an internal shock either on the supply side or on the demand side, but rather an external shock mainly on the supply side and in part demand. It is significant that this shock should be temporary, and this is not a matter for a permanent change in the structure of production and for a lasting change in external trade relations. It is therefore necessary not only to maintain liquidity but to preserve businesses, employment and income as much as possible. The fiscal authority must take responsibility for employees to pay their salaries if employers cannot. This is how companies are kept. Businesses and all other economic operators need to be maintained not only in financial terms but also in legal and production terms, because the advantages of collective experience are otherwise lost, and these are particularly important in terms of productivity. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022. Article 1 of this Decision provides that the percentage –6.6 is replaced by the percentage –8.6, and the maximum amount of expenditure of the State sector for 2021 is amended by replacing the amount of 24 thousand 900 billion with the amount of 25 thousand 300. In Article 2, or in Article 3, the State budget target balance for 2021 is amended by replacing the percentage of –5.7 with the percentage –8,6 with the maximum amount of expenditure for the State budget for 2021 by replacing the amount of 13.520 billion with the amount of 14.32 billion. Fiscal policy needs to be adapted to the current situation. The epidemiological situation in Slovenia is still acute and restrictive measures that have a negative impact on economic activity are in place. As a result, a number of measures to preserve businesses and jobs are still in place, which will have a significant financial impact in 2021. The effects of these measures and the recently adopted PPIZ-2 on public finances could not be adequately planned at the time the budget changes were prepared for 2021. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the extraordinary situation with covido-19 also requires decisive action, and we are convinced that in this area the Government is doing well and taking appropriate action. Last but not least, most of this money is about stopping the spread of covid-19, helping health care and the main budget money is about preserving jobs and maintaining a functioning economy. We have heard very well that if these measures and this money, which is intended to help the economy to maintain jobs, would not be higher, the economy would have dropped by about one third, the consequences would have been much higher than they are today. It is important that these measures continue. Covid is still not defeated, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support the amendment of the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Andrea Zabret. It will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u56	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When considering the revision of the budgetary framework decision, it is essential that we look a little bit more at the projection of the state of public finances in the coming years. The President of the Fiscal Council has been very sharp and warns that we are dealing with a deterioration in the fiscal situation due to the measures already taken after the rebalancing. The impact of this deterioration was estimated at 330 million a year and found that the short-term situation of public finances is deteriorating. It is also very important that, on the day the Fiscal Council delivered its opinion on the budgetary documents, the Government has put forward a proposal for legislation to upgrade the tax system, which is expected to reduce income generated by income of around 248 million in the following year. But we do know that all of this is not random, but a deliberate and conscious act. Showing the right numbers is not your intention. In the Debarcation Act, you also proposed a social cap to make life easier for the richer, but the pension fund will make it poor for 100 million euros a year and health care for 44 to 65 million. These are the calculations of the representatives of the two cash registers. Let us also mention the compulsory retirement measure which, according to the Fiscal Council, is expected to deplete the budget for an additional 35 million per year. And sweets, for example, are unsuspectingly high supplements to some in health care. It's also for a certain purpose. At the same time, you do absolutely nothing on the revenue side. You are not even prepared to introduce a new digital tax, with a mantra to wait for consensus within the OECD and the European Union. Even with regard to the so-called ability to acquire European funds, the Fiscal Council said that this was a rather optimistic assumption, since by 2024 more than three quarters of all grants available over the next 10 years were to be spent. With all this devastating deepening of the budget gap that obviously awaits us, we are only interested in one thing in LMŠ: how will you finance budget expenditure in the coming years? We view the budget as a kind of social contract, a social consensus on what we will finance with the funds available in the budget, not as self-service trade. What happens when these funds begin to land because of the measures you are predicting? How will you finance the pension and health allowance, kindergartens, wages? How will you solve the housing problem of young people? The consequences will ultimately be paid by the people, all the people, including those who agree with you today. By reducing wages, transfers, reducing pensions, by reducing rights, such as health care, by leaving certain selected services to the market, by privatising. Respected, such drastic intervention in public finances or such financial hooliganism in the coming years will not only impoverish the state budget, but also the pension, health, and income changes will also make less money available in the municipal treasury. So in the year before the elections, you're going to be able to slow down by throwing money into the corn because of all four state cash registers? With all these projections, we can only ask the government's representatives whether they are interested only in charging a candy maker in the pre-election year or what will happen to Slovenia in the coming years. We will not support the ruling in the LMŠ, but we can all just stick together to our wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With reference to the needs of epidemic control, the Government has once again sent to the National Assembly a proposal to amend the budgetary framework setting maximum spending for the wider country, for state and municipal budgets, for pension and health bills. As noted in the previous agenda item, in addition to the costs associated with the epidemic, the Government is also planning another unrelated spending and debt. However, the situation is further exacerbated by the decommissioning of tax resources, which will make it possible for the State to have even less resources for action and action. The proposed amendments relate exclusively to this year, because the proposed new Decision repeals the adopted framework for the coming year. At least for this year, it is certainly possible to agree that the country will still be in the midst of the epidemic and will require extensive state intervention, but, as we stress, not every government spending is linked to the epidemic. This is recalled by the Fiscal Council, which also draws attention to the unrealistic assumptions on which the Government based its calculations. The concrete changes proposed by the Government thus amount to an additional 400 million expenditure from the state sector this year, with the purpose of spending unclear. A total of 800 million additional spending on the state budget, which will be financed by additional borrowing, with low interest being a poor source of comfort, as the deterioration of public finances can rapidly increase the required interest. As a result of pensioners' allowances, such as eligible but unpaid minimum pensions, there will also be an increase of 70 million in the expenditure of the pension allowance, which should be covered by the state budget each year. It is therefore not surprising to the Fiscal Council that the realization of everything proposed would mean that, three years from now, the state of Slovenian public finances will be among the worst in Europe. All of this leads to the extreme instability of public finances, which puts Slovenia in a very vulnerable position. All of this could also be understood if government plans really only involve helping people and the affected economy, but we have been proving for a year and a half that many of the government's spending and measures have nothing to do with the response to the epidemic, and they are closely linked to ideological blindness, which is equal to government gifts for friends and from hatred to all public systematically disrupting tax resources. Under cover of the epidemic, the government is thus offering us an inexcusable waste, a risky debt and a dangerous reduction of the country's revenues, which threatens its stability and its ability to remain social, without giving us confidence that it will be able to draw effective European funds from the recovery and resilience plan. All of this leads to new savings, into new buzzes that are already indicated in government plans for the coming years. Therefore, we cannot support the draft amendments to the budgetary framework in the Group of Social Democrats this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Every time we discuss budgets and frameworks for these budgets in the National Assembly, the discussion is in danger of becoming technical in order to become dry. In fact, the budget is probably one of the most fundamental debates the National Assembly has to carry out. These numbers, which at first seem boring, really answer the questions that the government is working for. Since we are talking today about decisions for the budgets of the immediate future, this is a version of the issue for which the government will work. Before we look for an answer to this question, let us pause for a moment for another modularity, which the government of John Janša has been working for in this last year. The answer, which shows us the way into the future, is nothing to be encouraged, to work for herself, and to work for the rich. Throughout its efforts to poor the social state and to strengthen the capitalist class, she painted these as measures against the covida-19 epidemic. In fact, the covida-19 epidemic has only misused to pursue its purely partisan government objectives, how to stay in power with all possible levers of power and how to elevate the capitalist class, it is said, rich owners, privileged classes in this society at the expense of public finances, at the expense of our common good. This is not just a declared position, it is also supported by numbers. If we go to the intestines of the PKP package measures, we find very quickly that it was a capital rescue, it is said that it was bare ownership of the rich above the larger companies. 1.7 billion euros -- that's a huge amount. To help and support people in the form of solidarity allowances and similar measures - the amount is five times lower. Or another case, students, as one of the socially more vulnerable groups, received twice as much as 150 euros in the epidemic, which is a ridiculous amount from the point of view of the socially disadvantaged student, from the point of view of the student from a well-situated family, and the amount that he does not really need. Students as workers who work through a student's passport and are dependent on this student's travel agent for life, so that they can survive at all, and they can study through it, got nothing. What's more, they're rewarded with throwing them out of college homes. The whole story of how Janez Janša's government is abusing the covida-19 epidemic to exhaust the common welfare of public finances and the financing of its friends in a private sector deity is not even stopped here. A few days ago, in the National Assembly, we had a meeting on the subject of the operation of state aid funding for pending work initiated by the serial closure of the doors of various companies, including foreign multinationals, who benefited from state subsidies and state aid. As soon as these aids expired or with a combat delay of a few months, they began closing doors, moving production, and putting people on the road. Safilo, Adient, Boxmark and so on, these are companies that have absorbed the support funds that the Government has defined as job protection funds and then closed the doors, shut down production. Only three of the most excruciating cases have produced thousands of 100 unemployed in regions already at risk. However, look at this, it was a financing measure to subsidise the waiting period of more than €400 million, and it is said that half a billion public finances have shifted into this measure. Why? Eh, so that owners of large companies, especially foreign multinationals, put these funds in their own pockets. When this was no longer the case, people were left without bread and the social problem continued to be turned over to the solidarity shoulders of the Republic of Slovenia, to the detriment of these endangered regions in which companies closed themselves, to the detriment of the state budget and to the detriment of Slovenian workers. We can also monitor the same in the framework for future budgetary expenditure. Today's treatment increases the budget deficit by an additional €800 million, and almost €4 billion totals. The country is also in charge of this deficit. Of course, debt alone is no problem if the State makes an appropriate investment. Finally, loans are refinanced later and are eliminated through economic growth and do not function like household, consumer credits, as someone might imagine. But the means in which the government of Janez Janša spends money that he does not really have and is indebted to are not used as a meaningful investment. They are used to feed the rich to feed the great capitalists, and people are left to dry. And it's gonna get worse. Simic's tax reform, which is at the table, threatens to plough a billion euros of holes into public finances every year. This means that the state will handle one billion euro of annual finances less to build old people's homes to finance pensions to build 10,000 non-profit rent apartments for young people and to finance, after all, a green transformation of society that needs to be prepared for climate damage and is indeed late. And why will this billion-dollar loss of euros in public finances arise? Just to get extra fat on the rich. We are talking about a social wage cap over €6,000 gross. We are talking about raising general relief, which in fact will not benefit the working class with low wages, it will not benefit even the middle class, it will know the richest. In general, the richest will be aware of the reduction in the tax rate for the fifth income class from 50% to 45%. Four thousand 300 of the most privileged managers, doctors and lawyers in the country will benefit, and no one else will. We're all going to suffer a minus on this account. Of course, it is also forecast, once again, to reduce the rate of income from capital income to 25% and from the income from the rental of assets to 15%. Again, these are not measures that would be of any benefit to people or not to small tenants who may have a room or a building in the byte, but will come to exclusively the real estate barons. These are the fundamental values of the government of Janez Janša, which are reflected in the decrees for future budgets. Debt, drilling holes in public finances and the use of these funds, as far as they are concerned, to continue to reward the wealthy. The one thing they won't pull out of our common public small is that they'll throw in weapons, a total of €780 million over the next few years. And of course, after all this waste of public finances from the Slovenian social state will not remain any S. What will follow is a scenario that we have already seen. The first government of Janez Janša has also turned one billion hard annual holes in public finances. The country has peed in its capacities and conditions to face the crises of capitalism. A few years later, that was exactly what happened. How did John Janša’s second government answer that question? So she saved up with Zuiff and took everyone else, public servants, employees, the health system and so on. Exactly this is also a scenario drawn on the horizon by such decrees for the coming budgets. That is why we will vote against it in Levica. This is not a policy for prosperity, this is a policy for public financial devastation and debt, an anti-robinhood policy, this is a super-hikov policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will be the last to present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u62	Your Honor! Today, we will also decide on amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the state budget for the current period, i.e. for the period from 2020 to 2021, in order to provide part of the financial resources needed to make planned investments in the fight against the economic and social consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The proposed amendment of the decree ensures that the necessary resources are provided in a way that increases the maximum amount of expenditure and the target balance of the State budget and the maximum amount of expenditure for the pension fund. This ensures a sufficient room for manoeuvre for financial so-called anticovid interventions, which are our main tool for helping people and the economy in times of crisis. In Slovenia, of course, restrictions still exist, which to some extent hinder our economic activity. In response to the current situation, however, a number of measures are in place to preserve businesses, economic activities and jobs, which will also have a significant financial impact in the coming year. The challenging challenges of the current situation must, of course, be adequately addressed by appropriate adjustment to fiscal policy management, which will allow for state intervention in these times of uncertainty. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the implementation of this amendment is both necessary due to the measures taken and extended after the date of adoption of the State budget for 2021, as well as to the adoption of possible additional measures to combat the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic in the future. In this regard, it is particularly important that the proposed increase in expenditure intended solely to finance the measures taken in the intervention laws and that, for the purpose of financing all these measures, Slovenia will not be in further debt but will simply spend some of the existing resources. Nevertheless, we will all have to work together to ensure that public financial expenditure is financed as much as possible through revenue from taxes collected and other reliable public financial resources. Healthy public finances are the foundation of our sovereignty. Public financial stability, however, is a condition for economic growth and for general prosperity in the country. Therefore, this amendment to the Framework Decision, which we are considering today, is extremely important from our point of view. In our Group of Members, we are strong advocates of a sustainable fiscal policy, which we have finally proven with extremely good public financial results in past mandates. Members of the SMC are aware that the impact of all these measures on public finances, including the recently adopted amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, has not been adequately planned in the context of previous changes to the state budget. Therefore, the amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2021 in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of MEPs and Members on the proposal for a resolution. First, Mrs Andreja Zabret is given the floor and Mr Jure Ferrjan is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yesterday on the Committee on Finance, colleague Pogačnik asked the President of the Fiscal Court, what would have happened if these measures had not been taken after all the PKPs. The Fiscal Council said that if these measures were not taken, the decline in economic activity would be one third more. We all agree on this, and no one has disputed it, and we have heard it several times today. However, the President of the Court of Auditors also continued to say that the fall would be one third higher, but it is important to note that we are growing disproportionately in the regular costs of wages and goods and services, only from January to March, for example, increased by 6%, that public debt is growing the fastest on average in the EU and that we are in the top third of countries, that the Government is taking measures that are not linked to the cod crisis, thereby weakening the structural position and public finances, and that the deterioration of the fiscal situation is also in the very structural measures that the Government has already taken and which it intends to adopt. So that I can then continue to guide myself to what are the structural measures or laws that the Government still wants to adopt, that is, the Debarcation Act, where only a social cap will reduce the 100 million in the pension fund and 65 million in the health register. This is followed by an upgrade of the tax system, where a reduction in income will result in a cash flow of 248 million less. And if we remember here the Investments in the Slovenian Army Act, where the first two years will cost us 100 million for military equipment and in the next four years after 130 or 140 million per year. And the Long-Term Care Act, where the government says that it has resources and that everything in the account will be covered and I'm talking about an additional 300 million. The demographic fund, if established, will also be less than €150 to €200 million annually in the budget. The Fiscal Council also draws attention to forced retirement following the PKP7, where the cash flow is expected to be 35 million less. And if we are all talking about an additional billion, which will also be legally binding for the budget, we already know that we have 95% of the budget, we say, locked up with all the legal obligations we have to pay them. If we look at that, from January to March this year, the regular costs of wages and regular services of goods and services have increased by 6%, we are already at 101%, and if we add this billion, which represents the circus 10% of the budget, then we ask ourselves how we intend to cover all of this. By on the other hand, as far as income is concerned or some exit strategy is concerned, how we will start the economy after the anchor crisis, we have not actually heard from the government today. And yes, today we are considering a decree that increases spending by 800 million, corrects this decree for the fourth time, and I am almost certain that this is not the last one, and that we can expect it to be expected in the 2021 budget rebalancing assembly. And I would also like to say that in the LMŠ we have never challenged debt and I have to replicate it and in terms of state interventionism for measures aimed at people and the economy that are linked to the epidemic and have a multiplier effect, we talk about it and we all know what we mean by it, it is a responsibility for investments that bring jobs, economic growth, added value and a multiplier effect in the future. Yes, absolutely yes, for debt, but we do not agree to non-transparency, inconvenientity, long-term debt and debt for things that are not related to the couid crisis, and without the strategy that this government is doing. He's not going to be a part of this. And just a few more points put by the Fiscal Council on this decree, namely, the opinion of the Fiscal Council, despite all the harshness and the fact that the current coalition and the finance minister have always taken a very strong stand for fiscal rule and transparency of public finances, is right to say what the Fiscal Council feels about this decision and what warnings it has given. As a result of the measures taken by the Government after the rebalancing, the fiscal situation is deteriorating by an additional 330 million per year. The Public Finance Act also states that reforms that are not yet in the legislative process are not taken into account in the Stability Pact or in the decree, but, nevertheless, the documents do not take account of the changes in the tax reforms planned by the Government, nor do they provide documents on the basis of which the Fiscal Council could make credible calculations on the use of European funds. In fact, the Government is planning a huge amount of spending on European investment, which would be great and right, but given that we do not yet know what the national recovery and resilience plan is and how this plan is adopted without any stakeholders, we can be in doubt that you will be able to draw on so much European funding. As I have already mentioned, the Fiscal Council also warns, and you have forgotten to say that we are experiencing disproportionate increases in expenditures that are not directly related to the crisis, this is practically a violation of the fiscal rule, and that the state of public finances in Slovenia is deteriorating faster and worse than on average than the EU average and that we are in debt growth dynamics in an early third of the European Union countries. If I'm a little cynical, I can say we're really good here. When it comes to large-scale indebtedness to a country that does not have a strategy at the back to be sustainable, we all know that there are hidden costs of this state spending and can be reflected in rising prices and taxes in the future. And all in view of what this government is doing, I am afraid that there will be a long period of pressure on price increases, strengthening taxes and increasing economic growth too slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since the list of debaters is changing very quickly, I will read the following four. First he gets the word, Mr Jura Ferrjan, then Mr Marko Bandelli, mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Jože Lenart. Mr. Ferryan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Minister of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! However, some facts must be highlighted in this budget document, which have not only been mentioned in this point but also in previous ones. To begin with, the fact that we are dealing with this document more than once today is the fourth time, given that we are in the period of the epidemic, during the crisis, there is nothing out of the ordinary. That's perfectly normal. The current government is therefore responding to changing issues, to a situation that is uncertain and is changing from day to day. That is why, of course, we are talking again today about these budgetary documents, which are of course important for the implementation of those elements that mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and, of course, also help people, as we have seen in recent months. What is crucial is that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia help people, have helped and will be done in the future. And this was confirmed by the President of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia yesterday on the Committee on Finance in this Chamber, when he specifically said that without measures, the fall of gross domestic product would be more than a third and we can think of what this would entail. For example, Umar said that without measures, the fall of gross domestic product would be greater by 4 percentage points. Similar estimates are also made by the Bank of Slovenia, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, i.e. outside our country. On this occasion, of course, it should also be pointed out that in 2020 the fall in gross domestic product was about 20% lower than the forecast. There was also quite a talk about the debt. Of course, at a crucial stage, it is important why we owe ourselves and at what cost, at what interest rates we owe ourselves. And this government is indebted at extremely low interest rates. He's in charge of helping people help the economy. We are obliged to refinance the debt when we owe ourselves on substantially more expensive terms, on substantially higher rates of interest, and of course to put conditions to respond to the epidemic, on the crisis, and to lay those foundations, so that we can emerge from this crisis as winners, so that the recovery of the economy will be as soon as possible and, of course, that everyone and the people of our beautiful country can also emerge from this crisis in the coming months. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of pressure at that time, but I am sure that the measures have prevented a lot of this government and made many concessions. As I mentioned in the introduction, the period we are in is extremely uncertain, unstable. However, the picture of public finances, which we also have in this country due to measures or mainly the actions of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the eight anti-korona packages adopted, is the same as it is. And that's a good picture. This is evidenced by stable ratings, then by the fact that the 60-year maturity bond is issued, that in Slovenia unemployment is lower than the European Union average and, as I have already mentioned, that the decline in economic growth in 2020 is 20% lower than forecast. The fact is that Slovenia has so far committed more than EUR 3 billion to the people and the economy under the leadership of Janez Janša, the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the money that people and the economy have already received. This is money for people's well-being, this is money for dealing with the current crisis, this is money for debt refinancing and this is money that will allow Slovenia to come out of the crisis. And we're not in charge of financing banks, preferably private banks, and we're not in charge of helping elites. This government, this government coalition, is helping people, helping the economy. And that's what the numbers are about. Respected and respected! There was also a lot of talk about pensioners. The fact is that this government does not plan to reduce pensions and has never planned to do so. On the contrary, the pensioner's government places high on the priority list. This government has allocated allowances to pensioners through anti-Korona packages, and this government has already coordinated both on a regular basis and on an exceptional basis, and will, of course, do so in the future. In 2021, i.e. in the current year, around 6% and in 2022 and in the coming years, pension growth is planned between 2% and 3%. So the deceptions and the various instigations that this government is planning cuts, of course, do not hold, and therefore I ask that you no longer do so. For deception or lies, even though you repeat them repeatedly, of course they cannot weigh the facts and the truth, that this government also works for the pensioners, and that very well. We will implement the demographic fund, and we will also take care of long-term care to ensure that age is truly safe and beautiful. And that is what is important is also one of the priorities of this coalition contract, which means that since the beginning this government has been aware of the importance of this topic, namely, the areas of pensioners, long-term care, the demographic fund, the pension system, and this also applies. And it also, of course, faces one of the worst crises in the history of Slovenia, i.e. the Coronavirus epidemic. Respected and respected! Of course, there are months ahead of us when a number of other measures will have to be taken to really bring Slovenia out of the crisis as a winner. I believe that the next anti-Korona package will be the one that will offer some additional foundations for the outcome of the crisis and that, of course, we will also be so well positioned that, by opening up the economy and other activities, it will be possible to upgrade this economic growth and that, of course, we will all have the most of these, which means returning to normalisation, stable public finances, the well-being of people, development, the growth of our country, our economy and, of course, a stable health system, investment and what is most important, of course, that together we will be able to actually get out of this crisis as winners and continue to help people, that every story will be positive, good and, of course, achieve the best for every citizen and citizen. This is also addressed to these budgetary documents which we are considering today and which I will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, and for her he will get the word of Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This year, the country will definitely continue to be in the midst of the epidemic and will need to continue to intervene, and I understand, of course, that there will also be a need for more State aid to the people most deprived of it at that time. I absolutely support the efforts to quickly recover and successfully adapt to the new situation and to return to normal as soon as possible, i.e. to the opening of all restaurants, accommodations, guest houses. Guests and tourism invite us, let us work, call us, we will take measures, do not destroy the industry, there are enough already destroyed societies, enough already destroyed workers and workers. But is this government working in this direction to stop destroying the industry? Wrong decisions and measures that do not solve the crisis, but anything else, of course, also increase budget expenditure. All the decisions we have made so far will, of course, have to be paid in the coming years. This decision will not only be paid by us, but will be paid by our children, and my grandchildren hope not by anyone else. And when the guest and tourist workers re-enjoyed the opening of the accommodation facilities yesterday, it appeared, look at the fragment, only up to 30 accommodation units, for those guests who would be tested who had been over the covid who had been vaccinated. And who is this population of people? The vaccinated population - these are older people and those coming from risk groups. A large majority of these, unfortunately, will not be able and will not be used by these accommodation units. And under such restrictions as are now mentioned, many citizens and citizens wonder and rightly are rewarded for being imprisoned for more than a year for their walls, not hanging around, not taking all the measures, and thank God these people are not sick, yes, and now they are not in the turn for vaccination yet. In doing so, it is still forgotten that vaccination is voluntary. Why, then, did the condition for visiting accommodation facilities confirm vaccination, a certificate of disease, or even testing? I received a number of questions on e-mails today, whether they are now second-class citizens. Then there was the question, yes, and then what is in multi-housing buildings, buildings where we can have more than 30 apartments, and more people live in those apartments. Does this mean that there are too many people in these facilities? One asked me a hypothetical question and asked if he'd have to move out of the apartment block now because he's 54 units. Now I'm going to bring up a stupider matter and a banal matter. Guest who will go to the accommodation facility or who will have to be tested will be vaccinated [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't interrupt me because I'll tell you where the reasons will be. He's gonna have to get tested. What about our Parliament? How many of our MPs have been vaccinated? How much are we testing? How many times have we been tested? And there are more than 30, 90 of us here, and all the professional staff. Are we all even over covid? But of course, that's just an indication. I would really suggest to the Government that it start to look at the whole of the world, to stop taking such strong restrictive measures, because they will be harmful consequences both for the economy, tourism, hospitality. And this is where the budget decree begins. If we are aware of what will happen to the fact that they want to open up accommodation units, they want up to 30 units, of course, they wonder if they will be liquid at all. Certainly not, this will not happen, because they will simply not be able to open the accommodation facilities, because at the time of opening the accommodation facilities they must use all the resources to ensure everything necessary for the guests who will be coming. And opening facilities isn't going to happen tomorrow. So they will continue to be sorry on the back of the country, unfortunately on the shoulders of these PKPs. Whether we are all aware together, both the government and us here, of the long-term consequences of reckless decisions when, of course, and what will soon happen, the unemployment rate will increase, resulting in a reduction in the tax inflows, a reduction in contributions to the pension fund, to the health treasury, and an increase in social security transfers. The consequences will be indescribable, some will be followed this year, and the question of what will happen next year and in the years to come. And yes, we have said several times today that this government will not reduce pensions. Yes, of course, I believe that this government is not in the interest of reducing pensions, but in the next government, whatever it is, please believe me, measures in the area of public finance balance will be urgently needed. On this point, colleague Pogačnik said in his previous mandate that any measures to balance public finances would already be possible in this mandate, but thank God we were at a time of conjunction, but the situation at the time of the epidemic showed again all the traps of this budget. And yes, as we have already looked at and recorded the deficit of EUR 633 million in the first two months, most affected by the state budget, which showed a deficit of as much as EUR 659 million, slightly over EUR 659 million. However, the deficit of the state budget increased by €600 million in March only this year. According to temporary data in the first quarter, if I have the right data, it is €1.3 billion. And if we want to continue or continue with such a policy, restrictive measures that are not and are not effective, we will still have to prepare how many PKPs, maybe instead of PKP9, there will be PKP10, 12, 13, I don't know where we're going to stop. Why am I saying that? Because hospitality and tourism will not survive this, with up to 30 units definitely not and with all the restrictive measures. The hospitality and tourism union also gives us a deep warning, and here we are all in one vicious circle. It will be necessary to open the country, of course absolutely with all possible measures, but be aware that vaccination is voluntary. Will do. Because we can't limit the guest to showing the inn whether he has a vaccination, a certificate. I mean, I don't know if we can afford it, I mean, this is where the state really has to do something and think. However, I absolutely agree with the need to transplant as many people as possible, but we are currently preparing a change in the vaccination strategy and will be vaccinated over 50 years of age, which is good, but we are not all the same. I think that we still live in Slovenia, where we should all be the same as before the law, we should be the same before entering restaurants, in tourist facilities and everything else. Unfortunately, this government is spending uncontrolledly without coverage, without vision, unfortunately indebted to future generations and thus puts us in a very dangerous and financially unstable position, which suggests an almost imminent saving policy on the shoulders of people, and this is nominally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u69	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not an epidemiological expert. However, given that there has been a debate on the current measures on the epidemic at one point, which speaks of a decision setting maximum expenditure for 2022 and 2024, it has certainly been possible to respond to the words of Ambassador Muršičeva, who said, inter alia, that this government is destroying the sectors and the economy. This government helps industries and the economy. This government is not destroying, this government has given 3.5 billion euros to industries and the economy, up to four billion. Such a fiscal aid has never been granted to the economy in the history of that country and neither has the population. This is why words that say the government is destroying industries and the economy, and these measures have no health effects, as has been said, I quote. Look, I'm not, I'm sorry, in a position to judge which measures, because I'm not an expert on epidemics, which measures have health effects and have no health effects. So I say this in a very modest manner as a representative of the government, but I know that the government is taking action on the basis of professional criteria and has experts to do so. That's why I have to react to it, even though today it's not the theme of this point, but if that was said. Besides, the government doesn't shut down the economy if we say so. The epidemic is closing down the economy, human health is closing down the economy. Human health is the reason why guest restaurants, tourist destinations, similar matters are closed. The government's decree on this is only a consequence of the epidemiological situation. And in advance, the government made a traffic light and told us when and how it would relax and how it would not relax. And I think the government's recent rulings have led to a major change and an opening up of the economy. And I can't even judge whether it's good from a medical point of view or not, because I'm not in a position to do that, even though I'm a minister here. I have to say that the government is working for the good of the people, and it will work and is already working for the good of the guests so that they can open it now. The government has therefore given nearly 4 billion to various groups, including the inn in various ways. I would not go into these measures, but here I do apologize, President, that I am now talking about it, but I must react as a member of the government. And I also have to react because Mrs Zabretova says, for the first time, it's about throwing money into corn. No, it's not about throwing money into corn. Accurately, all the objectives of this money are focused very transparently. And this government does not throw money into corn, nor does it throw it at the most difficult times for the economy and for the population of the rifle into corn, if we are a little metaphorical. And next thing you know, it's not financial hooliganism. I don't know why I'm going to say there's so much hatred here. When we talk about financial hooliganism and look at what it means, these are discrimination against individuals or groups of people, if we look at what these words and hooliganism mean. And look, too much hate for my taste. This is about the 4 billion that the government has given to the population and the economy very focused, very targeted. That's what all of us admit. I can allow for the possibility of individual mistakes, but look, if we're talking with such destructive words, I'm sorry, I have to react. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward and repeat it, first, warn that those who use electronic devices use these so that you do not disturb other Members and Speakers, if not, use headphones. And second warning, I ask you to hold to the content of the act under discussion in debates, replicas and other matters. Now let's do a replica of mags first. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Minister, I completely understand you and this is absolutely encouraging that we have given as a government EUR 4 billion for the economy. I was just saying why you're destroying the economy, because I just said, "Host and tourism," because that's what they're saying with these measures that were taken in the government. Of course, I understand that you are not an expert in health care or that these measures, which you are simply taking, are confirmed by the Government, the fruit of professional commissions, but I do not know. And just because they wrote themselves, the Trade Union of Workers and Hostages, tourism wrote about all these measures and all these conditions, which have now been written, proof of the patient's illness, vaccination, test results, they wrote clearly: "Until then such a condition would reflect the guests and not attract guests. This will further jeopardise the opening of jobs and jobs of employees." As a result, however, this year's budget and next year's budget has been affected, so my debate followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u74	I would only respond to the minister about the word financial hooliganism. I was talking about financial hooliganism, in the context of weakening revenue and increasing expenditure. Indeed, the accounts, however we look at them, do not come out and, in the event of an excessive increase in regular expenditure and the excessive burden of new legal obligations with all the laws that await us in the future and which this government is likely to adopt, are horrendous numbers. And that's all I've been talking about, and it's not about any kind of hatred or in any context, but I'm only talking about financial hooliganism, because accounts just don't work out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Jože Lenart. And she'll get the word of Jerco Korca after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, look, for me, the budget document is a sacred or professional basis for my decision as a Member of the National Assembly. This is also our responsibility and the key task that has consequences in the future, of course, if we make the wrong decision then, especially if the documents are not what we want them to be. If we trust the budget document to provide a realistic picture on the revenue side, we will also be able to make a very clear decision about spending on the expenditure side, but we know how wide the area is: health, education, social, pension, long-term care, local community, development, investment, security and today's in this cod crisis, which is particularly sensitive. And if we do not believe in this document, then we will make even harder decisions or make mistakes. As we have seen in recent days, we have specifically torn the draft amendments to the budget documents with clear warnings. We are critical of the unrealistic income side you present in the documents. At the same time, with the decision to change the budget documents to the public, your forecasts of tax reform, which reduces revenue, and at the same time other matters that increase expenditure, are coming. Under the line, we see so the deficit and consequently the growth of indebtedness and unsustainable, unstable public finances. We remind you of the unrealistic structural increase in spending on public finances that you set up last year. That is a fact and we have already warned about it. However, with each additional budget document, you are introducing additional expenditure, to which we remind you in particular where it is not focused on the emerging situation of the crisis of the epidemic. You always point out that in the first place you have devoted a great deal of assistance to citizens and citizens of different groups. Yes, we have, too, warned after you opened this Pandora's box that certain groups have been released and there is probably our responsibility. It is only in the second plan that you mention only an economy that screams for help so that it can emerge from the crisis, how they can also solve their liquidity, how they can achieve the reprogrammes for falling financial liabilities to banks, and how houses can be leased, so that no blockades and closures can occur. And here will be those final indicators of how many jobs we will keep, here are those real measures and aids. We know that we are talking about hospitality and the rest of those who are in need today from April 1st. This is the difference between the measures we are alerting and which we have also come to on the basis of a comparison of the actions of other countries, especially neighbouring Austria, which also have very transparent ways of helping their economy – they only mention the economy, mainly. But you are trying to convince us, including respected colleagues yesterday, with these nominal numbers, that Austria is also in a great deficit and a fall in GDP. We must be aware that the Austrian economy is more than 8 times larger than the Slovenian economy in terms of GDP. So is the budget. Of course, their budget deficit is not eight times higher, far from that, it is the right criterion, not some nominal number of some large countries. And, of course, even after being in Austria's debt, Austria is not at the top, after raising its debt during this period, but Slovenia is sorry, it is here with the warnings of others, and we somehow do not want to admit it to ourselves. See, I still understand politically that you are resisting and listening to our warnings from opposition parties, but I cannot understand that you are overhearing and disregarding the very clear warnings of the profession, the institutions in Brussels also, which warn that Slovenia will be in this crisis between those countries that are most in debt. More specifically, you, or all of us, are being warned by the Fiscal Council, which, with its reports, is stepping up warnings and is already shouting that the budgetary documents are unrealistic, unsustainable and do not provide stable public finances in the coming period, at least that is how I understand these reports. You have this negative opinion of the Fiscal Council on the table, which is also publicly presented, but unfortunately you do not take it into account, and we take it into account in the List of Marjan Šarc and we are concerned about it. This seems unacceptable, irresponsible and professional as politically unhygienic. I think that's the right word, isn't it, which we both have to understand from this profession, but it's not offensive. As the government, as minister, you thank the Fiscal Council for the warnings in the report; as we say, frankly, and you look into the eyes, but the caravan goes on. I can't understand that. Then why is this profession if we don't follow it? It is obvious that you have imagined the planning of the budget documents quite in your own way. Your methodology, like yesterday, you call yourself a game of numbers. That's a little unserious. Since here is your responsibility to citizens and citizens, to the future government, to the craftsmen who will have to solve the unsustainable situation you are leading us into, and when we resolve all of this in the future, of course, we will then again accuse and seek the culprits and lose the energy that we should give, all of us will work together towards development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u77	Thank you very much. He has the word of Jerco Korče, and he will be given the word Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! The only starting point could be, in some way, for some understanding of politics, including you, Mr Minister, is that you were not so long ago, but also from the opposition types of flagholder of that constitutional assessment of the 200-million-dollar balance. At the time, however, you defended something completely different, and it seemed to you that there was a rebalance between the government of Marjan Šarc, who eventually showed 200 million surpluses, very much disputed that you went with him as the first pawnbroker, into a constitutional judgement – otherwise, the Constitutional Court then put you on the real ground – but this is some political basis to understand who our interlocutor is today; as an interlocutor or as a representative of the government today, when we talk about all these documents. A colleague of Andrea Zabrett's used several times, I think yesterday, the expression of financial hooliganism. It would be more difficult in such short words or in those two words to sum up in any other way what this government is doing in the financial field. To understand what hooliganism means, the world’s web can be used, telling us that it is a behavior that violates social norms, rules, bonton, law, and in some ways it is a general destructive behavior. We can talk about legal hooliganism in this government, we can talk about epidemiological hooliganism. When you first put yourself somehow on the notion that you are not an epidemiologist and that you will not judge; of course, none of us is an epidemiologist, but it is sad enough that this government does not respect those people who are epidemiologists and propose certain things, but take measures in their own way and are political measures. So we can say that this is epidemiological hooliganism that causes severe consequences in society, which, of course, are also reflected in finance and could be reflected to a lesser extent if measures were to be considered. I couldn't agree more, Minister, when you said today that we gave 4 billion people and gave them to the economy, we gave them very focused and targeted. I fully agree with that. It is true, targeted and focused: only to some, only to those for whom you have judged or divided them into first-class and second-class ones. Because on the one hand you have strangled the inn and the tourism sector and you continue to do so with your actions and, on the other hand, you have allowed multinationals without any specific restrictions to keep the economy going. On the one hand, you have locked children away from school and, on the other hand, you have not been able to introduce basic measures to prevent infections from entering homes for older citizens, where we know that we had the most fatal victims. About you changing your vaccination strategy five times in order to – you'll still – obviously – enter those of your first-class little after anybody's daily inertia. Yes, you are, very focused and very purposeful! And you're doing the same for the financial hooliganism you're going to. You're just taking the epidemic for cover. And if anything is obvious, it is clear that there is no insight into the future. I am not just talking about the future of the decisions targeted at 2020, 2022, 2023, 2024, but the policy here is to look a little further than that. But you, of course, this is a political starting point and your thinking and perception of politics, you look at it this way: by 2022, until elections, if then they will definitely be then, we have to survive. Then there are two options: whether we move to the opposition and from the opposition we will have very nice maneuvers to show, if you see what we have accepted, and now another government is serving other politicians. These policies will, of course, have to be used by that government to stabilise and normalise matters, and you will be using the opposition's plans and now some ugly other government is doing the opposite. The second path is, of course, that, God forbid, you remain in power for another term or two and begin to implement your agenda, which is completely legitimate. But it is even more legitimate, or it would be right, for you to have the blessing of the people on the one hand to do so — that is, to get a proper majority in elections — and on the other hand to tell these same people what this agenda is. So when the government, what you're doing with these tax relief proposals of yours, even with the so-called debirocratisation, which is not that we're getting into a situation where revenue is going to fall, we're talking about 70 million in the cash register in your debirocracy, 40 million in the ZZZ, then the tax package is estimated at minus 280 million in 2022 and so on. So, by reducing inflows to the budget, the government has to go somewhere else, not to say cut it, but it does take us to privatise education, privatisation of health care. Because it is important to finance our country's solidarity model that we can finance public health, public education and that we can maintain a solidarity model for which we have once all come together and decided to envy and envy many other countries around the world and according to the List of Marjana Sharca is a good and real model. Moreover, what bothers me the most about all of this when we talk about debt and other matters is that these debts will, of course, be repaid by future generations. And there's nothing wrong with borrowing if we know why it's an assignment. I will not say that we do not know about this government, but we do not know about today's melting of candy around, which in the future does not bring us any multiplier effects that would help to increase revenue into the cash register, but we do not achieve this goal or what we consider to be a prudent debt in the List of Marjan Sarcas. I would applaud you if you were in charge of building apartments, research and development, because young people are those or investing in these matters is what will bring about the future of the pension. It's not the duty today to give candy to pensioners, it's the responsibility of young people having decent jobs. And the decent service is not yours, as it is, the collaborative economy today is called in some professional or political literature to these services that you bring to young people on a platter, of course, I am talking about platforms that force young people into precaration. This is not the future and this is the obvious and this is nothing more than financial hooliganism, which in the future will be somehow warm to the head of all generations that will come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u79	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Well, we're here at the same meeting, we're talking about the same subject and we're coming out from completely different starting points or assumptions. As I understand it, you come from assumptions that today there is no epidemic, as if today we have no more than one year of special status, some special arrangements in all areas, from health, social, economic, social and so on. It's like everything's running like nothing's happening, but the situation here is different. The situation is that all of these measures are either to start with the crisis you are talking about, if the measures are different for individual activities and so on. Yeah. This crisis is not the same in 2008 or 2009 in the world or 2012 and 2013 in Slovenia. She's not the same. Why isn't she the same? Because it is a health crisis; because it is the basis for a social, social, economic, financial crisis and so on, and because some sectors are more affected by health care than others. Look, that's what he's talking about, and he's writing the whole world. These industries are catering, tourism, logistics and so on. And the whole world and we give these industries special meaning. Even in solving all of this and these industries bear a greater burden if you want, closure and so on. Not because any European government wants it, but because of what the epidemiological profession says about the spread of the virus. Well, they figured out if I made it a little easier that, if you want, at group dances or anywhere, the virus spreads faster than if you work on a farm, alone in the field. Here I've given very figurative, I don't want to say anything with this, but it comes from the spread of the virus that spreads most or more than elsewhere. And that's why this crisis is coming. And now it is not the intention of the government to have something against hospitality like you want to show it, and that these measures are worse there or in some other activity. This is what this is all about, and this is what the whole world has discovered, and the whole world has closed guesthouses longer than some other activities have been closed down. As a result, exit strategies are also different across sectors and will vary across sectors as well. So from this point of view, of course, this government is actually doing so now, when we're talking about relaxation. But the measures it has taken — the remuneration for waiting for work — apply to all sectors. If we are talking about covering costs – it is true for all who are affected and the criteria are as to who is affected by the traffic. This is said to be very transparent measures. These are focused and focused measures that keep the economy on the market and that do not increase drastic unemployment and do not step up or encourage businesses to go bankrupt. These are the measures we're talking about! So from this point of view about this focus I'm talking about, you're talking about some other focus, but these measures are transparent, you have them in laws with all the shortcomings and with all the good things that are recognised to us, of course, mainly by the foreign and especially the international organisations, and especially the ratings and in particular the interest rate. So from this point of view, I've been talking about these measures. With regard to indebtedness, honourable Member, it is difficult for you to be in charge of some purpose on the world market, such as, for example, housing, some things and so on. It is now the first time and it will come to the task of so-called green policy. But if you go to the world market to get in debt, you just owe yourself, you issue bonds. But how you spend this money is, of course, a matter of budget, a matter of division in society, a matter of consensus in society, a matter of measures taken in this national assembly as well. And this government has decided to give more money to health than any other government before; to give more money to older people because it has not previously given them, I don't know, all governments not as much as they should have given them. She also stressed some other goals here. However, the Government could not be in charge of a particular purpose, or if it were to do so theoretically, it would be much more expensive. Trust me. That's what we're talking about, and that's what I'm talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u81	Thank you very much. There are two more outs in between, so the last one gets the word mags. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you, Minister, for once again explaining all these things which the opposition obviously does not understand, and especially the LMŠ does not. See, LMŠ compares, I don't know, budget revenues in 2019 with now. There was a competitive growth back then. There was no covida. The European Union, the world is facing a couid and the result of the increase in debt is due to an increase in the deficit. This budget is solely for the purposes of the measures to be taken to curb the covida-19. And this is not only facing Slovenia, but also facing, I would say, all the countries of the European Union, all the other European countries and not least all the world countries. And look, I am sure that Slovenia is successful with the measures it is implementing. For the figures speak of the fall of gross domestic product compared to other European countries. And here we can be proud that the fall of Slovenia's gross domestic product is smaller than other countries. And what Mr Lenart has said to Slovenia, I would say it owes more than the other countries. Indeed, Slovenia is in charge of one column above the European average, above the average of the European Union, but this means that Slovenia is helping people more and helping the economy more than the other countries, where we have a slight decline in GDP. Now, dear colleague Lenart, you must decide what you would like: less indebtedness to Slovenia is worse for the economy and less for the people. We don't want that. This government has decided to help the most vulnerable groups. This government has decided to help the most vulnerable groups, and this is also due to a smaller decline in GDP. As a result, we devote more money to people, more money to the economy and more assistance. If someone doesn't believe it, they can look at the Erar indicator. The hospitality was mentioned many times today. Let's see how many innkeepers got this help. I believe it is not comparable as if they were in the opening, but not imprisoned by the government of John Janša. The hospitality was closed by a covid-19. Not only in Slovenia, even in Austria, even in Italy, even in Spain. But you're trying to, I'd say, in any way present this picture in public: this government is shutting you down, this government is restricting you. That's not true! Covid restricts me as much as you do someone else. However, this government is doing its best, I would say, by means of measures, it is trying to reduce the consequences of this. And I think we're all here together to beat this coven as soon as possible. Dear colleague Mursic, I don't know where you live. This is not only in Slovenia, but also the surrounding regional countries around us are closed. See what's going on in England, what's going on in Spain, what's going on in Italy, what's going on in Austria, you need to look a little bit wider. And I think it has been said 10 times that Slovenia has never taken the most rigorous measures to take more rigorous measures in other countries. You mentioned ski resorts quite a lot; in Italy and France, ski resorts were not operated for an hour. I think that the Government has worked hard and that given the existing situation, we have a fairly well-managed and functioning economy. And the fact that the opposition is critical is okay, but the opposition is offensive, and it's not right. And with what you say, I would have sold yesterday, Members of the LMSH, and what you are selling today, that this government is committing hooliganism over public finances, which I think is the bottom of the court and that you are smiling above all yourself. That's true, hooliganism is helping people to help the economy, and I'd say it tells you a lot about the way you think.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Replica Bojana Mursich. Here you go. You have a few seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u84	Thank you very much. My friend Pogačnik didn't understand me. I have made it clear and loudly that I am even more supportive of the efforts to quickly recover and successfully adapt to the new situation, and you have said that where I live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Andrej Šircelj. Can I help you? You don't want to. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. I ask whether, under Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wants to discuss the time set for the debate has not yet passed. [[Yeah.]] Anyone besides Mr. Lenart? No, no, no. Then I give my word to Jozet Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Somehow this debate was going back on two shores today, and that was very clear, but I am glad that also colleague Pogačnik is now in the debate, when he somehow replicated to me and to someone else, he also found that we have cleared up certain matters, even this comparison with Austria. But I don't think I've been offensive in my debate, I've been holding on to some sort of professional basis, which also substantiates me by the fact that the fiscal world has come to similar conclusions, and we're critical of these derogations that we see as incorrect. Above all, I would like to point out once again, of course, that you have acknowledged that in the first place you have given more attention to groups where I cannot say that they do not need help, but I warn you today, which also reminds the economy that in a number of areas the economy is without assistance. It has also been said that certain matters are still not resolved. I very clearly point out that the final epilogue will have permanent jobs for how many businesses will survive and how many of these companies will still be on hold. That's the final result, and that's what we're fighting for. That's it! And if we are already at the end of April today, and we know that financial obligations are falling with April 1st, these reprogrammes are no longer valid by banks, if we do not solve this, then tomorrow companies will fall; especially in the field of tourism, because we know how important our tourism has become in recent years, which has become a radical horse. That's what we've been betting on. These are our permanent jobs at home. These are not the foreigners we work for and are leaving in this crisis today. This is one of the activities that is very important, and here, despite the fact that it is said today that we do not get a green light from Europe to do so, it is necessary to direct all forces to make this happen. Because then there will be a burial of all these companies that are now insolvent, having a negative cash flow. It seems crucial to me today that we finally solve this. I will once again say that this debate was useful today, in both decrees. And once again, I'm going to say that it seems unhygienic from the Government, that we are sincerely looking into the eyes and thank the Fiscal Council for their warnings, and we are practically disregarding any changes. So the caravan goes its own way, and that worries me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Do you want something else, Minister? No, no, no. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. No amendments have been adopted by the home working body to the draft decree and no amendments to the final provision have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a ruling will be made today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Interim Measures for Omilitism and the Elimination of the Consequences of COVID-19 in the framework of the reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u88	Thank you, Chairman. Representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, we have witnessed several times in this Chamber of Democracy that on various occasions, committees, some Members have publicly expressed their gratitude to health workers for all they have done, which they have done during the last year of this epidemic in the fight against covid. Unfortunately, this thank you is often not reflected in concrete actions either. The Witnesses, or stories that come to the fore in these days, are, to say the least, horrendous. Data are coming on the plan on the whole chaos of paying health-care workers’ awards; from some health care establishments or hospitals paying supplements to all, to people who were not in jobs where they were exposed to covid, to some who were not even in the service receiving this supplement. I don't know what would say with this information, but, except that, for the first time, the first thing is, it's not right and it's not fair to those who have been entitled to these supplements, who have spent their lives and hours fighting a covid under difficult circumstances, not to mention all of this. Secondly, which is totally unacceptable – here I hope that the Minister of Health will also take appropriate action – and this is non-economic treatment of public funds. Not to mention the amounts we have witnessed in these days, but to the effect that we do not oppose the Social Democrats, as well as all other co-proposers of this additional law on remuneration to those who belong to them and who have worked under these conditions, and we ask the Minister to investigate or sanction this matter in relation to the Appendices. So little, around the intro. It's about the novelty of the law that we're meeting for the second time today. The first vote ran out of two votes. In view of the promises I am counting on today to be able to gather enough votes so that this law, which corrects certain injustices in the awarding of health workers, is adopted today. In short, what this novel of ours brings is that we have included some groups that were actually part of the covid treatment system or the treatment of covid patients were released. These proposals also agree with all the medical professions, at least the ones with which we also had the opportunity to deal with through the State Council. In short, we're spreading a circle of beneficiaries. What it is, we will soon be nearing the end of this crisis, but the covid will still be among us. Thus, the payment of this supplement is only related to the time of the outbreak, so we propose our novelism, because the covid will remain, certain services will still work, deal with these covid patients, under special conditions, under the suits; in short, not to mention difficult conditions, and, if this is accepted, we legalise that they will be entitled to the supplement, otherwise not 30, but 65%, even after the epidemic is no more. At the same time, we limit the payment of these supplements to 100%. We are also proposing additional holiday vouchers. The vouchers that all other citizens could benefit from last year, but those employed in health care, the vast majority did not have these privileges, as they still have half or more last year's holidays. And fourthly, our proposal is also to give them, according to the hours of work done in these circumstances, an additional premium of collective health insurance to be added to them. This is like one form of bonification that was once an addition, I don't know, had miners, glassmakers and someone else as a supplement to work in exceptional working conditions. If anyone has worked in these extraordinary working conditions. I think we all agree that these are health workers who have worked on covid cases. And what's new is the amendment that we tabled mainly because of these events that are coming into the agenda of the last day that I mentioned around these different criteria for payment. With this amendment, we've also defined it. Although I do not think it would be necessary, because the interpretation of the collective agreement given by the Commission is quite clear – those who worked under these conditions are entitled to the supplement. In short, I hope that in this second attempt of ours we will be able to gather enough votes and to arrange a single piece, I would say, a more fair reward for health workers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of COVID-19 submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Matjaž Han to the National Assembly with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure. The Chair's College also adopted the reduced procedure. The Committee was provided with material published on the websites of the National Assembly, namely the draft law and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. They participated in the work of the Committee: a representative of the proposer, a representative of the Ministry of Labour and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative briefly presented the draft law and said he hoped that the draft law would be adopted in a second attempt. The representative of the Ministry said that they felt that the proposed amendments were not necessary, since the regulation in this area was good and therefore they did not support the proposal. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made comments to Article 2. Her representative said that the bill under consideration summed up the solutions to the draft law, which the National Assembly had already decided and had not adopted. It is supplemented by the content of the proposed amendments. The legislative and legal service also refers to several warnings already given on the frequency of amendment, fragmentation of regulation, duplication of content and accumulation of certain measures in intervention laws governing the consequences of COVID-19. The proposed amendment further affects the transparency and clarity of the legal regime and has therefore drawn attention to the rule of law laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution, which is an essential element of which are principles for the protection of trust in law and legal certainty. To Article 2 of the proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments in terms of the clarity of the text of the proposed provisions, their implementation and the nomotechnic preparation. Among the latter, it highlights the diversity of content, which would make sense for each of the proposed rights to be regulated in a separate article. It also points to the inconsistencies in the description of the additive. With regard to the right to payment of the one-off premium of the collective bonus of pension insurance, the ZPS highlighted the lack of justification for the proposed derogation from the system regime and the necessity of considering whether the proposed provision provides sufficient and sufficiently clear legal basis and on the time aspects of its implementation. There was a very short debate followed, where only the representative of the applicant explained that on-call inequality was different and that work at home was different from that of healthcare workers. The Committee then voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law in the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u91	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u92	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law currently under consideration amends Article 56 of the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19, which regulates supplements for direct work with patients or users with covid-19 disease. The law provides for a higher allowance for direct work with covid patients or users, which would amount to 65 per cent of the hourly rate of the employee’s basic salary. In this regard, the Government explains that employees working in a red and gray zone receive, within hours of the actual work done, a hazard allowance and a specific burden in a risky situation of 65 per cent of the hourly basic wage item and 30 per cent of the hourly basic wage item under Article 56 of the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19. In total, employees who work directly with covid patients or users receive an allowance of 95 % of the hourly basic wage. In addition, in cases where workers are temporarily assigned to work with another employer due to working needs, they receive an additional 30 per cent of the hourly basic wage item. We believe that the system of granting additives is properly regulated. In addition, it is proposed to pay a one-time extraordinary premium of the collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. The payment of the one-off premium shall also be fixed for employees of private health and social security providers with a concession, i.e. for collective supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act or for individual supplementary pension insurance provided that the employees are not included in the collective supplementary pension insurance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed award method is not appropriate. The amount of the collective supplementary pension premiums for public servants shall be determined by a decision to harmonise the minimum premium of the collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. For all civil servants, a uniform minimum premium of single pension insurance is thus laid down, plus an additional premium in relation to the completed years of service on day 1. 8. 2003. The determination of the payment of a one-time extraordinary premium for certain public servants would thus constitute a derogation from the current system. We also note the important fact that the employer cannot make payments to individual supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the ZPIZ-2. Such payment may only be made by the employees themselves from their income available after taxation. It is not clear from the provisions of the bill how an employer would be paid into an individual supplementary employee's pension insurance in practice, which would be contrary to the general provisions of the ZPIZ-2 governing supplementary pension insurance. Furthermore, the bill provides for a remuneration for employees who work directly with covid patients or users in the form of an additional voucher to improve the economic situation in the area of tourism consumption. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that the current incentive system has been adequately regulated. The bill also contains a monetary allowance for pupils and students who carry out practical education or occasional or temporary work of students and students, amounting to 65% of the hourly heading of their basic payment and an additional tourist voucher. Students and students are eligible under the legislation already adopted for a covid-19 direct work allowance of 30% of the hourly heading of their basic payment. We believe that this part of the legislation is properly regulated and that students and students are rewarded in the case of direct work with covid patients or users in the same way as regular employees. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia concludes that the existing method of awarding employees who work directly with patients and users infected with covid-19 is appropriate and therefore does not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a novel so-called PKP 5, which focuses only on the so-called covid additives, was tabled by the opposition in mid-November. The bill was then given only one vote “for” at the home labour body, and one vote “against” was not adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly. The proposer drafted a new text and re-submitted it into the legislative procedure. This time, too, one more vote was cast on the working body and we now have the text before us in plenary session. We all know the key content, it refers to covid supplements, and since its introduction it has been a source of excitement for both employees who are entitled to the supplement as a whole of the general public. Let me repeat the position we took in the Desus Group. First, I have to expose extremely difficult work with covid patients, which is why they are employed in health care and social protection at the edge of their capacities. Some consolation or recognition represents at least the payment of earned supplements, so-called covid supplements for work in dangerous situations, for danger and special burdens, and it is right that these supplements belong to them. Let us stress, however, that these supplements must be granted to genuinely eligible persons in health and social care. There are too many cases where people who do not have the slightest contact with covid patients receive these supplements and receive them in enormous amounts, that is more than EUR 10,000. I must repeat the warning of the Fiscal Council, which pointed out: “There is doubt as to the eligibility of certain payments of employee allowances”. Today, too, this supplement is exposed to this site through the prism of statistics. The total labour costs were almost 50% higher over the course of the year; the 2020 allowance amounted to EUR 207 million; the implementation of the allowance in January was EUR 211 million this year. I repeat, 211 million euros! So together, it's already €418 million. The main supplement has so far been paid to health care about EUR 178 million, about EUR 114 million at community level. I'm talking about enormous amounts. Another problem, extremely tender, is the amount of supplements for individuals. In the Desus Group, we join the call of the Fiscal Council for the Government to take appropriate measures to better target payments of allowances at all levels. Let me finish. Members of the Desus Group are united that these supplements belong to health and social workers, that they must be paid for direct work with covid patients and that they must be determined and paid in a just and fair manner. Given the percentages of this supplement and the additional benefits, we have different opinions. We are therefore going to vote on this proposal as before, this is our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Today, the re-decision of Members and Members on the amendment of the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19 is on the agenda. This is the so-called novel of PKP 5, by which a higher allowance is sought for direct work with covid patients for employees in health and welfare institutions who work directly with patients with disabilities. At the same time, this solution proposes another exceptional bonus of the collective additional pension insurance for public servants, an additional bonus to improve the economic situation in the area of consumption and tourism and an additional 65% hourly allowance for their basic salary for students and students who also work with covid patients. In recent days, we have been able to monitor the saga with disproportionate payment of covid supplements; the practice that reveals their unfair and disproportionate payment, which calls for a different, fairer and more prudent arrangement, especially with regard to the award of the most exposed workers in the first line of battle. We are talking about employees in the DSOs who have demonstrated all the sacrifice and assistance in the past year at a time when the epidemic reached its peak or when it was the most difficult. These disclosures give a slightly greater weight to the argument that employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients deserve the higher supplement proposed by the amendment of the law. In particular, since the existing system of payment of allowances has apparently been disproportionately rewarded compared to other civil servants in the public administration and also wider in the public sector. The expression of social solidarity begins and ends with the most vulnerable or where it is necessary to provide fair compensation without populism for those who have been working hard for a good year to alleviate the epidemic and all its negative consequences. Of course, in the Group of Non-Related Members, we welcome the Government's announcements that in the coming period more resources will be allocated to building a home for the elderly, promoting employment in these institutions and regulating the long-term care area, but today the approval of the proposed novel is a first step towards taking this seriously. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we also consider the remaining solutions, regardless of their inadequacy, to be satisfactory and will therefore support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. One moment, please prepare the counter. [[Disinfection of the phone]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u98	A nice greeting to all present in the hall! The proposer proposes to devote a fair payment and a reward to employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients or users who suffer from covid-19. At this point, in the Slovenian National Party Group, we ask ourselves when will be enough. When will it be enough for health care to be filled with money without borders? Now all doctors receive at least 60 % of the supplement on already high wages and the other 90 %. Why do we always run into more money when we open up the health sector? The old river says we can't buy health. Apparently you can do it in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer also proposes that workers facing excessive burdens be given the opportunity to receive a tourist voucher award. The tourist vouchers were intended to solve the economic sector of tourism. What does this have to do with health workers? It's about mixing pears and apples, and there'll be very few of these this year, because it was a lot of cold. Now the doctors have the wages they've always wanted. But the question is, what will it be like when they have to say good-bye to these supplements? In our opinion, it is very difficult. When the supplements are no longer available, we can expect a statement from Fides and the main problem will be the level of wages, not for example social rights or labour interests. With such proposals, the proposer has to file disputes within the public sector, and he wants them to escalate problems, as he deliberately prefers only one group of employees. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u100	Thank you so much again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law that we now have before us has been dealt with several times both in plenary and in the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Therefore, it has been explained several times why we do not support the law, and of course the reason is not that it has been tabled by the opposition parliamentary group, but we do not support the law, because we believe that this content is well regulated already in the anti-Korona packages, which are intended to pardon and remedy the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. As regards health care and the existing way of rewarding employees in health and social welfare institutions, the competent ministry, namely for health and work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities, consider that this is appropriate and does not require new or additional changes. With regard to the higher allowance for direct work with covid patients, which would therefore amount to 65 per cent of the hour of basic wage of the employee, the Ministry of Labour and Health explains that employees working in the red and gray zone receive for hours of actual work a hazard allowance and special burden in a risky situation of 65 per cent of the hour of the basic wage item and 30 per cent of the hour of the basic wage under Article 56 of the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19. In total, employees who work directly with covid patients or users receive an allowance of 95 percent of the hourly basic wage. In addition, in cases where workers are temporarily assigned to work with another employer due to working needs, they receive an additional 30 per cent of the hourly basic salary. In the ministries responsible for the content mentioned above, they therefore consider that the system of allocation of additives is adequately regulated. However, we certainly realize that the work of those who have been taking direct care of patients with covid for a year is very difficult, that this work is exhausting and that certainly many face burnout. Of course, we are grateful to all health workers and those who care for the elderly in welfare institutions for their noble work. However, at this point, it is necessary to say that for a very long time before the outbreak began, we have warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is a chronic shortage of personnel in both health care and social security institutions. And of course, at the time of the epidemic, it is even more visible today or even more visible. Today, also because of the epidemic that has marked the world in practice, it is even more clear what policy has been pursued in the last 10 years when they were in power of the left-wing government. Now we all know that no home for the elderly has been built at this time, even though the spatial capacity was already very poor in this area and we have been warning about this all the time. Today, however, the policy of this government is turning into a good thing for people to build a home. We can say that the government is also working on a high-quality or active employment policy to work for the elderly, including an additional EUR 31 million for this purpose, an additional EUR 26 million has been allocated for new jobs in health care. In short, this government works well and works for people. In the eight anti-Korona packages, measures have so far helped the economy, amounting to more than €2 billion, as well as people, particularly through various solidarity supplements. At the same time, the government is aware of the fact that at the time of the epidemic there are, in particular, families who were already in severe social distress prior to the epidemic. For them, the government has earmarked around 600 million euros. Of course, it is necessary to say that the Government must focus on various measures, in particular on saving jobs. And it was precisely because of these good decisions, which were aligned with both the economy and the Economic and Social Council, that we managed to maintain more than 300,000 jobs, despite the extremely difficult situation in which not only Slovenia, but practically the whole world, was found. We will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With today's amendment to the Fifth Anti-Koronic Law, we want to reward more fairly those workers who are most burdened or, more often than not, work in the first lines of battle. Employees who for more than a year have put first concern for others and selflessly and self - sacrificingly save lives. Employees who, in order to help others, set aside their lives, gave up their vacation, and adjusted their private social life. Employees who work under extremely difficult conditions endanger their health both physically and psychologically. Employees who are on the brink of burnout and who have repeatedly warned that they simply cannot do it anymore. Of course, we cannot materially repay them all the unslept nights, pressures, and efforts they experienced during their work. But at least it's a consolation, a confession, and a fair reward for the work done. For these employees, just nice words, thanks from government representatives or flights of planes received by the government of Janez Janša are not enough. They deserve a righteous reward for their self - sacrificing work. Members of the Marjan Sarca Group, together with the rest of the democratic opposition, have already proposed a fairer reward for those who deserve it, but the coalition parliamentary groups for our proposals have not listened. Therefore, the amendment of PKP 5 proposes a higher allowance for direct work with covid patients or users of 65% of the hourly basic wage of the employee, payment of a one-off premium of 250, 500 or 1,000 euro for collective supplementary pension insurance and an additional tourist voucher for beneficiaries. We have included another category in the novel, which the government of Janez Janša does not pay any attention to in the wake of the crisis, namely young workers, students, or students who work with covid patients. These will be eligible for a higher 65% supplement and an additional tourist voucher, following the proposed amendments to the laws. We will support the amendment of the law in our parliamentary group. We also call for support from coalition Members and Members of Parliament. Such a decision should be taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! To begin with, in a few military jargons, which Janša's government often uses: they are employed in health care, pension homes and other social welfare institutions, certainly the first line of battle against this insidious covid-19 virus. Since the beginning of the epidemic, employees in these institutions have been working outside all the scope and regulations laid down by the labour law and the collective agreement. The epidemic has only further burdened the employees, as the shortage of staff in health and nursing homes is increasing and the employees are overburdened, exhausted, and burned out. In addition, health and care staff are exposed to additional stress at this time, as they are facing increasing verbal, physical violence by patients or their relatives and an increasing number of conflicts in the workplace. Despite the protective equipment, however, they continue to be at risk of being infected with the virus and suffering from covid disease themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of Members, we believe that the current award arrangements do not take into account the level of risk faced by healthcare workers and nursing homes in these extraordinary epidemiological situations. On the basis of the current rules, employees are entitled to an allowance of 30% of the hourly basic wage for direct work with covid-19 patients. At the time of the declared epidemic, they are also entitled to a crisis allowance of 65% of the hourly basic wage under the collective agreement. We have been reminding Social Democrats of the fact that employees in health care and nursing homes will have to continue to do the same work as during the declared epidemic, even after the Government has lifted the epidemic. In this case, employees will be entitled only to an allowance of 30%, although they will continue to face all the risks, stress and additional workloads listed. Therefore, we propose to increase the staff allowance for direct work with covid-19 patients to 65%, while at the time of the declared epidemic we limit the doubling of this and the crisis allowance under the collective contract for the public sector in the same way as was regulated in the first wave of the epidemic under the PKP 3 package. For employees we also propose two awards in the form of an extraordinary premium for the collective supplementary pension insurance and one additional tourist voucher, in addition to proposing an increase in the hourly rate for students and students who help employees in working with covid patients. Ladies and gentlemen, last time information has appeared in the public on the extremely large differences in the payment of the crisis allowance on the basis of a collective agreement which, at the time of the epidemic, belongs to all civil servants, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt more precise instructions on the payment of the crisis allowance to prevent such anomalies in the payment of this supplement. It would also be necessary to carry out a more thorough inspection of those public institutions that have paid their employees over-the-counter amounts of the crisis allowance and to verify that these payments were indeed justified. Our proposal to amend the law applies exclusively to employees in health care and nursing homes who are actually doing extremely responsible work in these difficult situations. With our proposal, we will strengthen the social security of the workers who fight in the first battle lines, as you would like to say, against the coronavirus, because we will provide them with a fair pay and reward for the work they have done, their denials and unselfish self-sacrifice in working with covid patients 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u106	From the beginning of the epidemic until today, anti-Korona laws are being drawn up on sent-off benches. So far, we've dealt with eight of them. Their aim is to mitigate and eliminate the consequences of the epidemic for the economy and the population and to strengthen the public health and care system, the bearers of efforts against the crown. The devastating consequences of the epidemic are few. The economy is living on public money injections, poverty among employees is increasing, unemployment has risen by a third since 2019 to 2020. Social hardships and differences between people are escalating, pressures are increasing. However, the intervention measures by which the Government operates do not follow the needs of the population. According to the Fiscal Council, by the end of 2020 the government had spent less than €3 billion on intervention measures. Of this, 1.7 billion went to private capital and five times less than 370 million to workers and the population. And, of course, we in Levica have therefore signed a law that we are considering today, which is slightly improving this relationship. The public health and care system is on its knees mainly by its employees who are burned. They have been working long shifts for a year and under tight conditions of the epidemic. Most of them contributed, but many received the minimum wage, while some of these profiles did not achieve minimum wage at all. For example, caregivers, laboratories, paramedics, suppliers and other poorly paid proletarians in health and social care are at the heart of this proposal. It was precisely due to low wages, poor working conditions and unregulated standards and standards that had already occurred before the current crisis that there had been an outflow of staff to other professions or countries, such as Austria, where such work was substantially better paid and better working conditions. In Levica, we have therefore always requested, at the time of the adoption of the PKP, that the allowance for direct work with co-vid patients be measured not as 30 per cent of the basic salary, but at least as much as 65 per cent for the epidemic as the collective contract provides for. Since PKP 5, we continue to insist that the allowance should be higher for workers who meet covid each day. In PKP 5, the same one, we therefore proposed an 85% supplement on a proposal from the unions. I recall that this supplement in the first wave was 100 percent. Back then, in Levica or in the opposition, we wanted to include laboratory workers in the sites. But to this day, the government has not even been able to smell what the employees have actually suggested. She clearly showed by her actions that she was only interested in the greatest privileged, first-class. For example, a handful of medical and insurance lobbyists who have hijacked the entire health care at the expense of all other doctors, nurses and other health workers, and with government assistance, account for the obscene supplements; even if they do not solve the epidemic or even bring the first strains of coronavirus into the country. Here are the managers and the real estate barons for whom Simic's reform is prepared to bankrupt the country with one billion minus a year. The large owners of industrial capital, who receive huge amounts of state aid without conditions and questions, then throw Slovenian workers on the road. The socialists are saying the opposite; it is necessary to help work, and the rich and capital must pay for the epidemic. We will therefore, of course, support a law extending the recruitment of workers who are entitled to work in an environment where there is a co-vid and which raises this supplement from 30 per cent to 65 per cent. In Levika, we call on Members to support this proposal and to grant fairer compensation to employees who have contributed most to the control of the epidemic and the resolution of lives for one year's hard work. These people do not need another flight of planes, but actual respect, which is also measured by a fair payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering amendments to the CAP 5 or the Interim Measures Act to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19. The opposition parties proposed amendments and amendments to the law, which are already already included in the next CAP laws in the vast majority. The bill proposes a reward for employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients or users who suffer from coronary disease or who are suspected of covido-19 infection. Employees in health and social welfare institutions, who have already been in the epidemic on the front lines, certainly deserve to be properly rewarded for their work. We have already taken care of this with the additions in the PKP packages, so today's opposition proposal is not justified. Employees working in a red and gray zone receive a hazard allowance and special burdens under the public sector collective contract of 65% of the hourly basic wage item, and receive an additional 30% hourly basic wage item under the Law on Temporary Measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19. In total, employees who work directly with covid patients or users receive an allowance of 95 % of the hourly basic wage. In addition, in cases where workers are temporarily assigned to work with another employer due to working needs, they receive an additional 30 % of the hourly basic wage. Therefore, in our view, the additive system is properly regulated. In addition, in accordance with the Law on Intervention Measures to Help mitigate the Consequences of the Second Wave of Covid-19, these additives are not included in the tax base for 2020 and 2021. However, the opposition proposal regarding the payment of the collective supplementary pension premium in relation to the number of hours that employees have made in direct contact with patients or users with covid-19 disease cannot be implemented under the regulation of this area. The proposal also provides a monetary allowance for students and students who carry out practical education or occasional or temporary work of students and students. However, we have already settled this with CAP 8. Students and students are entitled to an allowance for direct work with covid-19 of 30 % of the hourly rate of their basic payment. We believe that this part of the legislation is properly regulated and that both students and students are rewarded for direct work with covid patients or users in the same way as regular employees. The public impact of legislative changes is €26.1 million. And those who like to tell us how wasteful we are of money to be too indebted are proposing changes to share more money. Of course, we agree that people need help and support. However, in our view, it is essential to ensure that jobs are maintained, as we are aware that only an economy that will recover quickly after the crisis will be able to mitigate the long-term consequences of the health crisis. In New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats for Amendments will not support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the views of the Straka Group of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we are again considering the amendment of the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19. In the last few months, we have adopted many other similar solutions in this National Assembly aimed at employees in health and social welfare institutions, pensioners, farmers, students and many others who have been most affected by the epidemic. We have put in place a number of measures and solutions. Some of these are also relevant for today's treatment, for example: financing of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social safety, an allowance for direct work with covid patients in the amount of 30% of the hour of basic pay for students or students; equal pay for work and an allowance of 30% we have also enabled students and students who would still continue to do such work free of charge under the educational process; an allowance for work in risk situations of 65% of the hour of work in dangerous conditions also for persons working through an external contractor and persons involved in public works. With regard to the novel under consideration today, it is again pointed out that covid-19 patients who would, in accordance with the proposal, amount to a maximum of 100 % of the hourly rate of basic wage of the employee, including the addition referred to in Article 11 of the Public Sector Collective Contract. Thus, employees working in a red and gray zone are already receiving for hours the actual work of the hazard allowance and special burdens under the collective agreement, amounting to 65 % of the hourly basic wage item and 30 % of the hourly basic wage item in accordance with the intervention law, thus totalling 95 % of the hourly basic wage item. However, if they are temporarily assigned to work with another employer, they shall receive an additional 30 % of the hourly basic wage. However, in the case of the payment of the one-time extraordinary premium of the collective additional pension insurance for public servants, it is recalled that all public servants are subject to a single minimum premium of additional pension insurance, plus an additional premium in relation to the completed years of service at day 1. 8. 2003. The fixing of a one-time extraordinary premium for certain public servants, as proposed by the applicant, would constitute a derogation from the applicable collective supplementary pension scheme, which, according to our assessment, creates inequality between these public servants and all other public servants, since all employees working with the employer must be included in the collective supplementary pension scheme under the same conditions. As regards private providers of health and social security services with a concession, it is not even clear in the novel how it is possible to make a fair or comparable payment of the premium to individual supplementary pension insurance if the employees are not included in the collective supplementary pension insurance. PPIZ-2 provides for different entitlements for funds paid into collective supplementary pension insurance and for funds paid into individual supplementary pension insurance, within which a single raise of savings may be possible. This would also put these employees in an unequal position. With regard to the additional bonus in the area of tourism consumption, we have already expressed the idea of such a reward for one group of beneficiaries when we consider the previous amendment to the CAP 5. The tourist voucher was introduced solely as an aid to tourism, with all citizens being treated in the same way and therefore awarded a voucher in the same amount: for adults worth €200 and for children €50. On the basis of the concerns expressed in the Parliamentary Group, we will not support the modern centre of the bill proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u112	Your Honor! In the last year, a number of measures have been taken to help people and the economy cope with the epidemic and its consequences. Part of these measures was also the payment of allowances to those who carry out their work in a direct environment with covid patients. The burden and exposure of infections, of course, vary from sector to sector, but undoubtedly the most burdened and exposed workers were in health care and nursing homes. They had the most contact with the disease with the new coronary virus. The new PKP 5, which we re-signed in the SAB, the social liberals, is referring to those groups that literally keep our health, social welfare system awake. At three that are almost continuously exposed to covid-19 infection, they face daily overload and personnel deficits, pushing their personal life to the sidelines to help. I believe that with the content of the novel, which has not changed too much since the last reading, we are all well aware of it, so I will not take it back in this place. Of course, I will take the opportunity to draw attention to the health situation and irregularities that have proved to be fishing in the mud of some privileged people. The epidemic has declared the situation of Slovenian health care until the day after the outbreak, and we have been alerting for years: lack of personnel, anomalies, and they have emerged through various negotiation processes, working conditions, proper pay and other things to count. However, another aspect has proved to be extremely problematic, anomalies in the payment of allowances for work during the crisis. Or, in other words, shamelessly high allowances for the electorate, reaching up to several thousand euros high on the one hand, and some 10 euros high supplements for the other second-class. Of course, helping people at the time of the epidemic is essential, and it is only right that those in the first battle lines be rewarded by the state. But it must be transparent and consistent. It is unacceptable that the crown allowances were paid in the opposite and unfair manner. It is extremely unfair that doctors received a few thousand euro supplement and employees in older citizens' homes received 1.4 euros of gross allowance per hour, amounting to about 250 euros in one month of 180 hours of work. Moreover, some employees in the cabinets of ministries have received excessively high allowances, which have also been paid in disproportionate amounts in relation to the economy. There the allowances amounted to up to 200 euros and could only be paid to those employees who received a salary of up to 2 times the minimum wage. In the SAB, the social liberals, we have already warned about these irregularities, with the conviction that these differences have been caused by the payment of allowances in percentages and not in nominal amounts as set out in some other countries. We therefore estimate that in addition to today's new CAP 5, a systemic solution is also necessary, which should be prepared by the Government as soon as possible. If I go back to the new PKP 5. In the SAB Group, we will make a proposal that is already ahead of us for the second time, which means a first step towards fair pay and a reward for employees in health and social welfare institutions in a direct environment with covid patients, we will unanimously open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No desire to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, fifteen minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. Dude, I didn't notice anyone raised their hand. I looked. Twice. I suggest we finish this point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Firstly, the proposal for a law on the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for trade, transport safety and consumers and the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for financial markets under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, who is not at the moment. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A group of unrelated Members and Janja Servants shall have the floor. There's no colleague. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš, who also does not exist. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u114	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u115	will introduce Marko Pogačnik, who is also absent. [[…]] The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. He's not here either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u116	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u117	Position [[…]] It's a procession of Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u118	Mr President, as you can see that we have finished the previous item, our colleagues are obviously in the offices preparing for the next item, and they cannot come to this meeting so quickly, so I propose a 15-minute suspension of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u119	No, I won't mind the interruption. We'll just keep going. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If anyone thinks that in this law we are arguing about the backdrop of the shadow or that the List of Marjan Šarc is against the law just because it is in opposition, it is important to make it clear to people that we are making decisions about the things that make our daily life very much. We wonder when it will be up to us not to be agreed by the service providers and not to be dissuasive. For example, banks should not be taken to encourage loans, insurance undertakings for harmonised incentives, so that telecom operators do not charge trailers and services as they think they do. Or that the power grid is under control that traders do not cartelly agree that small shareholders are not injured in taking over companies. The agencies that this government is trying to bring together now are doing it! They start professionally, independent of different lobbying, independent of politics. And so, of course, they must do it in the future. Will they be or will they be easy? Will any service for this association be cheaper for humans? I can hardly believe it. Will the merger have a beneficial impact on the budget? The lawmaker himself says no. So why this merger? The motioner says it's because of transparency. We also do not believe in this in the letter of Marjan Šarc, given how this law was formed, far from the public's eyes, professions, in secret. And it's another so-called mega-law. By introducing even more impreciseness into the legal order, by interfering, and by radical interference, in as many as 38 laws. Not even in the Public Agencies Act, which lays down rules for the functioning of public agencies and is why this proposed law is in conflict with the Law on Public Agencies. 38 laws, then. By comparison, the infamous ZUJF has changed 40 of them and we have not yet eliminated all the consequences. And this is supposed to be in the spirit of debarcation, in the spirit of transparency of the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia! The Head of the Strategic Council for Debarcation wants to introduce another register of regulations by means of his law on alleged debarcation due to alleged greater transparency, and this register will indeed be needed if anyone in this country wants to find themselves in this general legal mess. I would like to know if anyone in the government or among the members of the coalition knows how many laws have changed so far only anti-Korona packages. But if I return to the Law on the Public Market Agency, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency, 8 very important but also very diverse regulators are to be placed in these two agencies. Due to debirocraticism, says the Minister of Economics. But isn't debirocraticism on the one hand improving the business environment and, on the other hand, simplifying access to state services for citizens? And it is not debirocratisation, and above all the writing of laws in harmony with those which are intended for them; with those which are directly concerned. In the event of a merger of important regulators, which must act independently and independently by nature, not only does it not. More than that; the agencies had only a few days available to respond as much as they could or as much as they were eager to respond and these responses are markedly - eloquently - negative. For the List of Marjan Šarca, the law is controversial because it takes the autonomy and independence of individual agencies and at the same time paves the way for political influence on their functioning. In this we see the motive of the ruling coalition, because the writers of the law do not mention solid substantive reasons at all, except for a few strokes in the style of efficiency, independence and independence, optimization, rationalisation and prudence. Since the impact of this law can be assessed in the text itself: the bill has no impact on the economy, no environmental impact, no social impact, no impact on development planning documents, no consequences in other areas, and the proposal for a law has no financial implications. And then, of course, we ask ourselves, what are the consequences of this marriage? You know, it's like Thursday night at home songs and tunes on Friday and saying it's still Thursday night. Announced, in short. They also point to the announcement of such a practice by the agencies concerned by this bill. They work in very different areas, very little or no substantive links. For illustration; at the Public Aviation Agency, they wonder what the certification of an aircraft has to do with consumer protection and market regulation. That's what we're asking ourselves. Moreover, the Agency’s management rightly draws attention to the questionable provision of autonomy, not only because of the permanent risk of political influence, but also because of the questionable provision of financial and human resources resources. Why we point out that, if the law beautifully states, “the two newly established agencies will be independent and independent in the performance of their tasks” and it is also stipulated for both agencies to determine the appropriate number of employees and financial resources on their own. Maybe, but, of course, the devil is always in the details. The least we can expect is that public agencies, as indirect budget consumers, will not be alone in setting financial resources and human resources plans. From the point of view of public finances and the Fiscal Rule Act, this is both impossible and unacceptable. Well, you'll be bound to the Agency's budget rules. It is also impossible to talk about a transparent funding system, as some agencies are now financed from the budget and some from their own resources. When you mix all this up, you get completely blurred transparency and, of course, appropriately difficult control. And can we really talk about lean public administration and rationalisation in this case? The Joint Agencies will have to carry out the same tasks as before in the same premises with the same people, and it is not surprising that the applicant has not found positive effects on the budget. And how will administrative burdens be reduced and for whom, if tasks and duties remain the same? It is true that the law states that the Agency is independent and independent in the exercise of its functions and powers. However, the law also states that regardless of this, the Government may issue general rules on competition protection, the Ministry responsible for transport is involved, gives guidance and guidance to the Public Agency for Competition, Transport Safety and Consumers in the field of transport. By derogating from this rule, the Government or the competent ministries shall be able to provide guidance to the Market, Transport and Consumer Agency to a limited extent in the field of transport and electronic communications. This is why I am saying that it will be clearer; therefore, why agencies are warning against the risk of losing independence and independence in their operations. These are therefore valid arguments that raise questions about the meaning of the association of agencies, as well as harmfulness. We can confidently expect disruptions in operation due to very complex merger procedures. Very expensive procedures can also happen due to possible infringements of European law. We therefore rightly ask ourselves why such a merger should not be justified if the applicant, apart from a pair of flossules, can not justify what will be achieved. So why a merger at all costs? In the List of Marjan Šarc, we are convinced that the main motive is the political subordination of important state subsystems and the possibility of direct control or interference with the nature of independent and autonomous regulators. And the law itself allows enough maneuverable space to do so. By favouring political belonging or loyalty over professionalism, this influence of the largest ruling party, with the assistance of coalition partners, will also be very easy to ensure. Of course, the excuse that the recruitment will take place through the National Assembly is a very clear excuse. But it is true that this is no longer so certain in the situation of the minority coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the introduction of a government proposal for a law, six supervisory agencies that oversee electricity markets, electronic and postal communications, media and audiovisual services, transport security and competition and consumer protection would be merged into only two agencies; one for the market, transport and consumers and the other for financial markets. Governments, as usual in their proposals, prefer simplification, reduction in the number of authorities, less so-called bureaucracy. In doing so, they ignore the fact that life is not as simple as they would like it to be, and that the rules are often complicated because they are complex professions and life areas whose control is much more difficult than government anti-birocrats imagine. Each supervisory agency must already enjoy a high degree of independence due to European regulations and have financial and human resources capacity to carry out its tasks. The proposal for a law that would so radically intervene in any one of them requires in-depth and critical treatment, in particular if such a proposal interferes with as many as six such agencies at the same time. The content of the law, as well as the process of its creation, are as important in such a bill. With regard to the process of production, we know for several months that the proposal for a law was made in secret and without the cooperation of those who were to implement it. Some learned about it from the media, while others had time to respond to 390 pages of long - term material from Thursday to Monday. This is an extremely bad journey for every marriage, and this is even more so. Even if we completely ignore the content, this is simply not the way to draw up a marriage proposal. Since dialogue has not been established within seven months of the Government’s sending this law to the National Assembly, this is in itself a good reason for its rejection. In such a way of preparation, it is not surprising that the content does not reach the minimum standards for further consideration. In order to assess the quality of its content, it is essentially not necessary for public opinion agencies which have not been included by the Government in the creation of a proposal for a law to fly over. The Competition Agency considers that the proposal is contrary to all democratic norms and regulations. The Civil Aviation Agency recalls that the law would have a negative impact on aviation security. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services notes that the proposal is contrary to several European directives and its implementation will lead to longer procedures and the slow functioning of certain tasks of the Agency. The Securities Market Agency considers that the decision on the merger of agencies is, I quote, “political, and the way such legislation is drawn up is inappropriate”. At the Railway Agency, I quote, “they could not understand the positive effects of the merger of the agencies” and the Energy Agency considers that the merger of the agencies is contrary to European law. At the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the importance of pre-examination of the arguments and analysis of the effects which were not presented in the case of this law is highlighted. It points out, however, that "time in difficult economic circumstances is not suitable for changing the organisational structure of organisations that take care of the legitimate functioning of important social systems". Dearly noted, the seven-month wait before this consideration of the bill has not improved a bit. The government is not proposing to improve solutions. Those who are to be reorganised according to government proposals were not included in the formation of legal improvements even in these seven months. Even today, the positive effects of the law cannot be recognized, except that the Government could publicly boast of less red tape. However, its actual legislation, according to many experts, would cause not only an illegal situation but also a distance from the eyes of the public, allowing the Government to fully submit to so far absolutely independent supervisory institutions. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further procedures and we will vote against its further consideration after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your word, nice greeting. We have before us a controversial proposal of the Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The law on 390 pages is governed by the merger of eight public agencies into two so-called superagencies. Six so far independent agencies — energy, competition, communication networks and services, civil aviation, rail transport and transport security — would join the new Market and Consumer Agency. This would regulate the energy market, electronic communications, postal services, media and audiovisual services, transport, ensure competition protection and consumer protection. The Public Securities Markets Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, however, is formed by the Public Financial Markets Agency, which would take care of the area of insurance supervision and the securities market. Both joint agencies would be headed by the administration and the council of the Agency, which could be designated by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. At first, the government founders of the merger intended to suspend the mandates of the eight directors so far immediately after the establishment of the two agencies, but in the meantime, even in the opinion of the European Commission, they have given in, and have thus entered into, the law that these performers remain in office until the end of their mandates. However, the purpose of integration is explained by achieving positive synergies in the areas of content-related importance and with better efficiency. It is very controversial that the directors of the agencies have not been involved in the drafting of such difficult legislation, which is totally contrary to democratic norms and guidelines. The Agency’s directors are convinced that the independence and independence of the supervisory institutions are being questioned, even in the case of an aviation agency, in contravention of civil aviation rules. They point out that the new Joint Agencies will be less responsive to the market situation and that this is a political decision that does not have much in common with professional market surveillance. In Levi, we insist that the Government, with the planned merger of eight key regulators in two super-agencys, opens doors to human rights exchanges, reduces the power of supervisory institutions and politically subjugates them. We know that change in leadership is often politically problematic, but significantly less if it is covered in a scene of so-called reorganisations. It is quite obvious that such a merger will reduce key regulators of the control market, as the agencies are monitoring each other and there will be no more. Finally, it is clear that the Government is trying to facilitate the political direction of these institutions; it is easier to direct two superagencies than eight independent agencies. All of this can concern us justifiably. For example, information is coming to the public that the Government is trying to sell Slovenian companies and media to Orban oligarhi – Planet TV, Petrol, Evening. It is not excluded that they will try to intervene with the US fund Apollo to sell the NKBM to the Hungarian bank OTP. In all these cases, of course, they could be confronted by agencies, especially the Securities Market Agency, so this haste and merger on their heads without adequate analysis and assessment of the effects of merger, without serious strategic considerations or in line with the strategic considerations that benefit mainly the SDS parties, without the timely inclusion of key stakeholders, in the essence of excluding them from co-forming the concept of possible merger, is said to be the agencies themselves, without public consideration. The aim of bringing agencies together is more than obvious: to facilitate the consolidation of economic power in the country. Indeed, the bill represents a complete political subordination and an end to the independence of the institutions responsible for regulating some of Slovenia's largest companies, to ensure equal market conditions, to prevent harmful practices and to protect consumers. There is no analysis of the state of play in the government proposal to demonstrate the usefulness of such merger between different agencies, nor does the material contain an assessment of the effects of mergers, but it merely claims that it is de-de-irocratic and does not mention a single bureaucratic obstacle. In any case, for the famous de-liberation referred to by the Government in the preparation of the proposal for this law, the pianist pop winged SDS, which the party shamelessly advertises on the jumble of boards throughout the country, is hiding the political submission of key market regulators, which is only the logical continuation of Janša's strategy of subordination of all state systems and subsystems with a view to revoking control. This, of course, opens up space for various corrupt robots, various machinations, such as media ownership and the like. Thus far, for example, control of the imprudent accumulation of media ownership has been extremely problematic, as it allows owners to increase uncontrolled public opinion and gradually create a dominant position on the market, against which, due to non-active regulators, there is no effective protector. Such practice is particularly controversial at a time when new owners and unhindered owners enter the Slovenian media market or have already taken over some of the largest domestic media companies: Planet TV, POP TV, Nova24TV or Infonet. With the planned merger of eight key regulators in two Super Agencys, these problems will be further exacerbated. In Slovenia, where news, radio and television activities are not allowed at the same time, the merger of regulators will further deteriorate and media legislation can be played even more than has unfortunately been played in the past. The ruling coalition has been subordinated to Furs and the NPU in a year. It's all connected, including this last alignment of regulators. Everything is part of a well-thought-out and well-planned plan. The intervention in the independence of regulators is a sad proof of the definitive abolition of the rule of law. The fact that the proposal for a law on the integration of agencies is prepared in strict secrecy and has been kept secret from the directors of public agencies is enough to say. The proposal for a law to abolish the independence of eight public agencies in charge of regulating capital markets, insurance companies, competition protection, energy market, telecommunications, media, audiovisual and postal services, transport safety, civil aviation and rail transport is contrary to several European directives laying down the conditions for the work of individual regulators. Apparently, Brussels’s sharper response was expected in advance in the government. This also puts in a different light the well-known opposition of the President of the Government to the European Union's payments from the European budget to individual countries to respect the rule of law. In any case, the Restoration proposal is far from the Dutch model that the Government is supposed to want to follow. It is true that in the Netherlands in 2013 three competition agencies, the guardian of competition, the regulator of the telecommunications market, joined by the energy agency and the consumer protection office there before, were thus united under one roof as the only one in the European Union. But they did so after careful consideration. The public debate lasted for about two years. While public agencies are critical in responding to the merger of agencies, as they say, no one has informed them that the draft law is being drawn up, despite the fact that the agencies believe that the merger has a significant impact on their powers and on their functioning, while also interfering with their independence, for example, that the proposed regime in the civil aviation agency is in principle in breach of an international system, the ruling coalition is not at all interested in this. The coalition roller is no longer looked at by anyone except the narrow self-interests that are detrimental to the rule of law, to the detriment of democracy and to the detriment of all of us. In Levica, we will do everything in our power to prevent this extremely damaging maneuver. To begin with, we will vote against the proposal of the Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. However, if this would be definitively adopted in the National Assembly, we are predicting that we will certainly request a referendum on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Historical circumstances and the negotiating Slovenian engagement in this part of the world have created a working and creative man who can keep pace with time and compete around the world. On the other hand, an entrepreneurial individual is becoming increasingly threatened by an increasing state apparatus that you do not want to tailor a good share of life in our country. Citizens and citizens have repeatedly entrusted their voice to various policies with the desire to find solutions and to pursue a more concise public administration. Their voice was heard over and over again. We are now in a moment where, through technology or digitisation, as well as with a more delicate administration, we can take a step forward towards a more efficient functioning of the country. New Slovenia and coalition parties are aware of the importance of this moment. The Government therefore proposed to read for the first time the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In the proposal for a law, we set ourselves the task of combining agencies that carry out tasks in the field of the market for energy, electronic communications, postal services, media and audiovisual services, transport, protection of competition and consumer protection into one agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumers, and the merger of agencies that carry out tasks in the field of insurance supervision and securities markets into one agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financial Markets. With the proposal for a novel new Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the market, transport safety and consumers, we are not looking for completely new solutions, but we have followed the Dutch model in the coalition, with the tasks of the regulatory authority in the field of energy, telecommunications, postal services, media and audiovisual services, competition and consumer protection and partly rail transport managed by the Consumers and Markets Authority or by the ACM. The proposed solution also follows the Dutch model when combining the work area of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for financial markets, except that it is not included in the supervision of banks, since in our legal order this control is not managed by the agency, but by the Bank of Slovenia, which is the constitutional body. The main objective of mergers is to achieve positive synergies in the areas of content-related importance and consequently to increase efficiency. We are looking for Christian Democrats and believe that there is always room for progress. With a close mind, we follow solutions that will facilitate and increase the effectiveness of work in different areas. The proposed solution, according to the Group of Members, follows the idea of a uniform, transparent and comprehensive decision that follows the creation of a more fragile country. Let me draw up some more of the above-mentioned objective of pursuing positive synergies in the areas of content-related importance and, as a result, of greater efficiency and more flexible public administrations. In particular, the general advantages of the proposed law will be: transparent, uniform and comprehensive setting of objectives, planning for policy and programme development; reorganising and rationalising the work of general services and refocusing the work of employees on substantive areas; rationalising information systems, establishing a single information system for operations, transferring registers to a single information system, establishing a single portal or website; increasing efficiency and flexibility in the planning and organisation of work, organising project work on concrete cases, facilitating the elimination of bottlenecks and establishing more uniform working protocols; strengthening control, more effective planning and direction of control, the possibility of joint market surveillance of market participants in certain activities; greater visibility for users and market participants; clear and a clear and autonomous governance structure, and uniform procedures for the collection of candidates, selection and selection, and a certain appointment by the State Council on a proposal from the Government; more transparent financing by means of a broad-based approach, notably through a broad-based approach, through a broad-based approach, and through a broad-based approach, and a broad-based approach; New Slovenia's effective functioning of public administration, public services, is seen as one of the key factors in establishing a well-functioning country that provides citizens with a framework for managing and managing co-operation. In view of the advantages that have been mentioned earlier, which have been brought about by a more flexible, rational and more coherent organisation of agencies, the New Slovenia Group – the Christian Democrats – will support the proposal of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u127	The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Greetings to both Secretary of State and, of course, present! Today we decide in our first reading on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill regulates the establishment and functioning of two agencies. The new agencies will be created by linking the current agencies that carry out market tasks for energy, electronic communications, postal services, media, audiovisual services, transport, ensuring competition and consumer protection to one agency and linking the agencies that carry out insurance supervision and securities market tasks to another agency. We believe in the parliamentary group that the planned transformation of agencies creates many synergies resulting from the potential for a uniform set of objectives, the potential for substantive integration and the potential for coordinated action. It is these synergies that are crucial to us, because we believe that they will provide better and more effective services to the agencies on the basis of them. The proposal for a law on public agencies is understood as part of an effort towards a safe, liberal, competitive and regulated market. According to our assessment, such a proposal is based on the principles of efficiency, rationalisation and independence, while at the same time it can be an example for other structures of a public and private nature to follow the principles of knowledge-sharing and the reorganisation of less efficient processes in their work. We expect systematic, comprehensive and integrated market treatment from the newly established agencies. Under this assumption, quality, security, equality and competitiveness will be guaranteed to all participants through comprehensive treatment on the behalf of one tenderer. Increased flow of information from different substantive areas can be expected, and easier transfer of knowledge, skills, experience between experts from different fields will be possible. This is not to be forgotten that the two agencies will be more recognizable to users in the sense that all necessary services and information can be obtained in one place without unnecessary searching for the competent authority. It is therefore justified to expect a positive impact on the business environment and a better user experience. In designing such complex projects, it is important to ensure transparency of operations through all agency management bodies, in a given case of administration and the Council. In such a system, the Administration shall draw up proposals for the work programme, the financial plan and the annual report and shall cooperate with the Council and the advisory bodies of the Agency. At the same time, the position of implementation seems to us extremely important that despite the restructuring of the agencies, the competence of the ministries does not change, which will certainly ease the transition to changes that we are often held back to, and some would rather not be able to see at all. I hope that, today, at least, we will come to purified uniform positions in the key elements of the law under consideration and improve it further if and where it is necessary. One such crossing should, in our view, certainly be an aspect of the independence of the agencies. In the proposal for a law, the governance structure of the world is clearly set out. The National Assembly shall be responsible for the appointment and discharge of the administration and of the Council, as proposed by law. The members will thus be elected in a transparent manner and at the proposal of the Competition Commission. In the SMC Group, we expect that by combining some existing agencies under one roof, two effective agencies will be able to respond to more difficult economic challenges. We expect new agencies to become quality business and consumer interlocutors and to contribute to a better business environment by their work. On the basis of this proposal, we will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u130	Madam Vice-President, first of all, let me say that it is surprising that no further explanation has been given by the Government on such a problematic law, which already has a very modest explanation, as is customary in all laws. Otherwise, in the SAB, we ask ourselves whether this government, the government of Janez Janša, in this mandate, with the help of the faithful Members of Desus and the SNS, only realizes its two long-standing agendas, which smell strongly of self-cracy, at all levels. The first agenda is the establishment of the National Demographic Fund, which transfers all state property under one roof and allows it to be privatised. In addition, it allows for an exchange of management and control in state-owned enterprises, which would not have been possible without such a radical change in legislation. The goal is not the sustainability of the pension system, as we are told, but the impact and control of the remaining state assets. The second agenda is the agenda that we are considering today. And we see the same mode of operation in it as in the demographic fund: change of leadership, gain of influence and thus greater control. The law brings together eight independent public agencies, market regulators, into two new ones, all of this under the pretext of debarcation, cost reduction and greater efficiency. The agencies we know today have been created by effective supervision of individual areas of the private sector. Such regulation must be based on legality, expertise and, above all, political neutrality. Direct political control of regulators is inadequate and therefore public agencies are being set up to have the highest possible degree of independence and autonomy. For us in the SAB party, there is no doubt, therefore, that supervisory agencies, as the European Commission has said, must remain independent and ensure that the area for which they are established is subject to appropriate supervision. In the form of super-agnancies, this will simply not be possible, which is also the main argument of the opposition by the profession, but it is clear today that the Janša government is completely indifferent to the expertise, European legislation and the areas controlled by the regulators. The bill is thus not backed by any analysis, no facts to suggest that the current control system is in any way ineffective. There is also no analysis to confirm that mergers will make control better, not only that mergers do mean rationalisation of business. The intention of the Government does not have any professional justification nor does it comply with the European legal order, which we have just transmitted to our legal order with the aim of achieving the independence and independence of these same regulators decades ago. So what is the actual purpose of the merger? In the SAB Party, we believe that concentration of influence, reduction of independence, humility in operation and human resources acquisition. Let us not forget that this government must complete two important projects, namely the aforementioned demographic fund and tourism holding. In doing so, it could be hampered by the current independent agency, which is also watching over a government decision, for example on fuel liberalisation. A very important task is also expected by the telecommunications control agency, which will soon decide on the 5G frequency allocation. This same agency is the regulator of electronic media and plays a very important role in the functioning of the Slovenian media market, which we know is an eternal thorn in the fifth ruling party. And what are the potential governmental interests for pooling financial regulators? The Securities Market Agency shall be subject to the supervision of the public company and the members of the Government. In doing so, let me remind you of the last affair in the purchase of Petrol's shares by the SDS Minister, which, due to suspicion of irregularities, is being dealt with by the same agency for the control of securities trading. Is it possible that there is another question among you about the fate of this procedure when there is a government frame there? The Insurance Supervisory Agency, for example, already controls pension companies alongside insurance companies today, which means that the Government will indirectly, but also influence their leadership. Not only that; the policy already shows an interest in obtaining qualified shares in insurance companies that the supervisory agency cannot realise without the consent of the supervisory agency. All of this shows that the issue of the independence and independence of the agencies is at great stake. And even though the government claims otherwise, we can't get past the fact that the merger of superagencies will be controlled by some government coordinator. With this move, the government, through the coordinator, will actually influence the agencies that are merging and, as a result, will inevitably influence their independence. I wonder if this new job is already intended for a major coordinator, who will then finish the vaccination work. In the SAB, we are therefore convinced that we are not deciding on some professional idea or the idea of a government that would have some serious and thorough basis, but we are deciding on an idea of a ruling party, a SDS party that has long wanted such mergers and such acquisitions. Both former SDS governments wanted to subject themselves to market regulators, but Brussels prevented them from doing so, just as it has now prevented the termination of mandates for current directors. This time, however, the government has found a solution by putting an end to the mandates of the members of the Council, which today consists of the largest experts in these specific fields. The underlying arguments point to the actual main purpose of this law. This is not de-irocratisation and rationalisation, but an increase in the power of representatives of the Government and theirs, of those who will be appointed in these places, and the decommissioning of the independent institutions that have been managed by the profession so far. We therefore strongly oppose this law in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The organisational structure shows how the institution, in a particular case, is a public agency, consisting of, in what way its parts are linked in whole, who are the holders of decision-making functions and what their tasks are. The bill, which is now under general discussion, seeks creative reconstruction of this important part of the Slovenian public sector. Structures can be defined from at least two perspectives: formal organisational structures that are designed and continuously envisaged, and informal organisational structures that develop spontaneously and not as a result of pre-planning, but as a result of the interrelationships and links between people of certain organisations. It is completely pointless that, as a primary objective, we should set ourselves a change in the organisational structure without drawing on the basic orientations of the organisation, the development level, the work programmes, the management methods and the resources available. The planned reorganisation of public agencies pursues the following fundamental objectives: uniform internal regulation, cost rationalisation, labour reorganisation and comprehensive strengthening of the supervisory functions performed by these public agencies. Can a new definition of organisational structures and relations mean a transition to a different, desirable, qualitative and developmental higher structural level? Multi-sectoral structural change means that changing structures in one area also means changing structures in all other areas. Systematic and gradual renewal or radical comprehensive transformation must always be based on a carefully established strategy that is conceptually based on long-term objectives, visions and missions. The common problems that may otherwise affect the effectiveness of the link are reflected through intermittent communications, through a fall in efficiency, through increased closure and less teamwork, through more influential power groups to take over the organization, through reduced efforts to achieve the objectives, as well as through the tendency of capable personnel to leave the organisation. Linkage syndrome can therefore lead to not only not being able to achieve the intended synergies, but a common challenge, taking into account already incurred costs, even negative. There is no organization that can succeed in the long run, but it does not benefit people, satisfy their needs and desires, and there is no organization that can work without people. An organization without humans is an empty shell with no life and no meaning. The newly proposed Public Market, Transport and Consumer Agency will have 375 employees and 93 Public Financial Markets Agency. Derogations in the number may also be possible, but they are not essential. It is not fully clear from the proposed reorganisation whether it is about reintegrating work, defining competences and responsibilities, increasing creativity and motivating co-workers or changing the style of governance and so on. An effective organisational structure is needed, but insufficient, for performance and the organisation's orderliness is a variable that needs to be adapted to the changed internal and external conditions. In this light, restructuring in the field of human resources is expected, which is directly linked to organisational changes. This means the establishment of a new organisational structure relating to employees, either in whole or in individual parts of the organisation. The purpose of the staff restructuring is to set up a staff structure that will make it possible to achieve the objectives set. Members of the Desus Group point out that these procedures must be carefully prepared, in particular because they relate directly to people, their relations, cooperation, group standards, behaviours, positions and values. It is not to be overlooked that employees today are valued as the most important potential of each organisation, and they must be treated as such. Softer, less visible factors are, in such a case, equivalent to those of the claims, more visible factors, with structures, systems and processes. Organisations work in a way that satisfies their own interests. As we know, these are the interests of individuals who participate in their operations as employees or as owners. The owner is unequivocal — the state. The objectives of these organizations are usually identical to those of the public, thanks to the rapid miracle, either accidental or deliberately challenged. But when such a miracle fails, something happens that cannot surprise us; wherever and whenever the various interests of the organizations and the public are faced, the interests of the organizations are weighed and realized. The public sector's function from this point of view is no longer unilateral. At least not in the eyes of the one who wants to see the reality of the phenomenon. In the broad diversity of its activities, the public sector is, in fact, partly serving the individual and the public, and mostly meeting the needs of its own organisations. Members of the Desus Group have different views on processes that mean a transition from the existing structures of public agencies to a new structure. In line with individual beliefs, we will vote on whether the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the government representative, Secretary of State Simon Zajc, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. First of all, an apology for a shorter delay, you surprised us a little with a brief discussion at the previous point, so that in this introduction my first intervention would in fact present a supplementary explanation to the Government, and then we would be involved with a colleague, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, if necessary. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already fixed the text of the proposal of the Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financial Markets on 14 October last year. For consideration in the National Assembly, we have proposed three readings, if this proposal receives enough votes today, then we will, of course, prepare further amendments according to the needs identified. The proposal of the law introduces reforms of the system involving some public agencies in Slovenia, which are now responsible for: protection of competition, electronic communications, postal and audiovisual services, media, energy, insurance and financial markets. To those mentioned, we add a part of consumer protection, which is now under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. With the completion of the renovation, we will get a safer, more liberal and more competitive market. As a result, we will provide an even more regulated market. On the basis of the proposal for a law, we will create two new agencies instead of the existing eight, namely the Market Agency, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Financial Markets Agency. What is the purpose or reason for the connection? These are the following: firstly, more systematic and integrated market treatment and its participants; transparent, uniform and comprehensive identification of objectives, development planning, policies and programmes; establishment of uniform conditions for the operation of agencies; greater efficiency and flexibility in the planning and organisation of work; more efficient planning and guidance and control in substantive areas; increased independence, legal security and greater confidence in institutions; smart substantive reorganisation and related rationalisation of work; rationalisation of information systems; establishment of an economic analysis unit; better and more efficient information flows between areas; and greater visibility for users in terms of all in one place. We are proposing uniform conditions for the functioning of the agencies with the proposal for a law without prejudice to the substantive competences of the existing agencies today. In the proposal for a law in several places, we strengthen the independence and independence of the new agencies, we establish a clear governance structure with the Multi-member Council and administration. Each of those bodies will have clear powers. The procedure for selecting members of the administration and the Council will be open and transparent through a public tender and a selection committee. The last word in the appointment and discharge of members of the administration and the world will have the highest representative and legislative body in Slovenia, i.e. this respected National Assembly. The new agencies will be independent and independent in the exercise of their duties and responsibilities. They will determine the basic acts, internal organisation and the number of employees on their own. The draft law lays down the basis for the Agency to have adequate financial, human, technical and technological resources for its operation. No one in the agencies will be bound in their work to the guidance and guidance of public authorities, local authorities, legal persons or individuals. Members of the Agency's administration and board and employees will have to carry out their tasks and powers independently of political and other external influences. The government believes that such organised agencies will be able to respond to market challenges and that they will have high confidence in the economy and consumers. The new agencies will, together with other measures planned by the Government and already being implemented, prepare, contribute to a better and more competitive business environment, one of the key priorities of this government. The changes will facilitate and rationalise a number of processes, important both for the economy and for other social segments, and ultimately for citizens. In today's first reading, if, of course, this law will be given a green light for further consideration, and, as I said in the introduction, some amendments have already been prepared; the rest, also in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, will also be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, ready to be Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Yeah, we got another bomb in this state choir, along with everyone we get every day or every week. Interesting! The merger of public agencies is in fact another in a series of planned and direct interventions in the functioning of independent institutions in Slovenia, which is, of course, the modus operandi of this government all the time, not to say attacks on the independence of agencies. Since I do not trust this government and have lost all legitimacy, of course I will not support such a proposal. Under the pretext of rationalisation and greater efficiency, the purpose of bringing agencies together is, of course, very clear; this is the direct submission of supervisory institutions, probably because of the concealment of any disputed behaviour of this government. I said, "Probably." On a European scale, it is also unusual for the so-called super agency or, in this case, two to cover so many different areas. Because you've thrown everything in, from energy to media. You've done one so minestly, you'd say to your fellow Primors, from these agencies. Why? That's a very interesting question. In fact, if you remember a little history, there was a time when the same government, or the same man who led it, made a super ministry. Do you remember the efficiency of that superministery? He was led by a gentleman who was very active on Twitter differently. Well, I remember him. And I will not talk about the efficiency of that ministry, because it was about as effective as today's school minister. So zero. In fact, I am fully in favour of any proposal that brings about the decentralisation and even development of regions and the equitable development of Slovenia, but assuming that public interest is also sincerely pursued and that proposals are not created in full secrecy but are accompanied by a broad debate, a public debate by all interested parties. Interestingly, for the Netherlands we know that for two years she had a public debate on integration, and then only, I think, four agencies joined together or three. What happened here? You didn't even ask the people you're putting together! So much for transparency and the inclusion of others and the fact that it is truly transparent for the public interest to work. So much for that. Now, what pains me more about this story? The Agency for Energy and the Public Agency for Rail Transport are currently established in Maribor. Both agencies are also quite effective. The Energy Agency is also recognised in the international space and the current legal regulation of its status is also in line with European law. With 100 employees, they generate around €5 million in revenue, and these jobs are in Maribor. In Maribor. The question is, and this answer, Madam Secretary of State, today I want you to know where these two superagencies will be based. Or in Maribor or in Ljubljana? That's what I want to know today. You can go to Prague. Indeed, in Maribor we remember one experience very well, it is called the transfer of HSE headquarters to Ljubljana. He's been transferred temporarily. Well, this temporaryity has become a constant, and today it is. And the paradox of the story is that Drava is still running through Maribor, not through Ljubljana, and HSE is still in Ljubljana. With such moves of course Maribor is slowly and steadily losing the importance and status that should belong to him as the second largest city in the country, because unfortunately everything is centralized in Ljubljana. The need for the decentralisation of this country has been discussed for the past 20 years and more than is discussed, more than is said, we are centralising ourselves. In fact, data show that in Maribor, which is the second largest Slovenian city, there are 7% of all jobs in the country. Of course, out of Ljubljana, so much less. Virtually all the headquarters of state institutions and state administration are in Ljubljana, and the only Post is still in Maribor, and the Dars is on paper. And what's going on? With this proposal you are actually doing exactly that, centralising the matter, even though you are full of mouths about decentralisation. We all know that decentralisation is essential, as more coherent regional development promotes national economic growth, but the capital is clearly favoured again. I hope I'm wrong, and you'll tell me today, Secretary of State, that both of you will have a seat in Maribor. The differences between the Eastern and Western cohesion regions in this place would not even be discussed, but look at the latest data, and you will see where we are. Instead of keeping the scissors locked up more and more, they're opening up, and we're becoming more and more one- and second-class. Now, of course, it is totally unacceptable that such a proposal was prepared without public debate. The agencies concerned have not been included. We also do not know any analysis of the situation which would prove that such merger of different agencies is justified. Neither does the material contain an assessment of the effects of the merger; it merely claims to be a debirocratic event and does not indicate any bureaucratic obstacle. It even says interestingly: the proposal has no impact on the economy, the bill has no environmental implications, the bill has no impact on the social sphere, the bill has no implications for development planning documents, the law will have no consequences in other areas, the proposal has no financial implications. These are blisters that no one believes, of course, except you in the coalition. Why? Because this marriage will have a further effect on our lives, and even more so on our wallets! And that, honourable speakers, would be the right thing to say. If not, there will be financial implications for the new administrations and councils of these superagencies, because you write that everything will be the same, and we will have something else: a super supervisor. So these people probably won't be volunteers, like those who were there when you were getting masks and volunteers in the notes, of course. That is why I strongly oppose this proposal. In fact, I'm sure it's just a head of control. It's about setting up the right people to do what they're told. You've shown modus operandi and you love it every day. Don't ever surprise me again, which is actually terrifying. This is another carefully planned intervention by this government into the functioning of independent institutions. You're predicting rationalization, greater efficiency. Secretary of State, you said, including substantive reorganisation, rationalisation, legal security, greater efficiency, transparent target planning, systematic work and what is more, nice! Great, fine! Sounds good. In fact, you are simply trying to control things, and this is the whole science and philosophy of this proposal. Because that's how this government works, and you've shown it several times, every day, actually. At the same time, I am most concerned, as it is said, what this law actually means for Maribor, where two agencies are established, as I have already said, and I am concerned that the goal of this government in that so-called lean state of decentralisation, which you are talking about, will in this case try to achieve right on the shoulders of the employees in Maribor. And I'm afraid that means quitting jobs for Maribor. That is why I will say absolutely very loudly that I am against it, and that is why the LMŠ will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u138	Thank you very much. What we now have on the table is, the law on two super agencies, it's a big mistake. I wish there was still a chance that this law would end today. Do you have an analysis that's why you're doing this? You don't! Do you have the positive effects of this association, what will be the positive effects? You don't because you don't have any! It's important that you mix from eight agencies and make two. The saddest part is, of these eight agencies, four agencies refer to Minister Vrtovac. There's no one from the Ministry of Infrastructure where Vlada sits today. No one. Four out of eight agencies; transport and energy. It's sad not to say embarrassing. And Nova Slovenija, together with Minister Vrtovec, will be responsible for the confusion that will arise in the field of transport when voting for such confusion. The most problematic part is the Civil Aviation Agency. Everywhere in the world, I hope to say, this is one of the more regulated bodies. Why? Because first of all, you have to take care of security. Security! That's supposed to come first. By doing what you're doing today, you're endangering aviation safety, air transport. And the minister quietly and New Slovenia is happy to say that he will be in. Great, great. [[…]] I am very much joining the speaker, you will take Maribor away, you will take two agencies away from Styrians. Bravo, good move! You should be congratulated here, really. You're saying something. You're doing something else. It is a shame to lose words when you write that they are not or will be positive, but far from doing so. Mix the Agency for Energy, the Agency for Civil Aviation, the Agency for Rail Transport, the Agency for which I do not know what else, while each of these agencies today has a very clear regulatory task. According to European standards, the Agency for Civil Control has a clear definition of how its governance structure should be established. How will you ensure that? How will you ensure that this super agency will lead 5 aviation experts? He won't! Here you'll get, I'll say, I'm sure, one big slap from Europe as well. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose another serious reflection on what you are doing with this and how much damage you will do to the country. And more importantly, how much damage you're going to do to people. It is indeed not right that no one from the Ministry of Infrastructure sits among the government today, but you terminate four important agencies – the Energy Agency, based in Maribor, the Agency for Road Safety, the Agency for Rail Transport and the Agency for Civil Aviation. And the minister and Nova Slovenija say: yes. Way to go, boys, really, congratulations!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get ready for Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u140	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. That means we're bringing together agencies now, bringing together regulators. It's just my personal opinion that this is the right path, I'm sure with some mergers on the market we get more positive things than negative things. Above all, this is about positive synergies due to substantive integration. The bill itself provides for the integration of a set of two segments, namely in Slovenia, the tasks of the energy market, electronic communications, postal services, media and audiovisual services, transport. The following agencies shall provide for the protection of competition and consumer protection: the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, the Public Agency for Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition and the proposal for this law provides for the merger of the abovementioned agencies into the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Market, Transport and Consumer Safety. I'm sure such a move is right, it's reasonable. I am confident that the procedures will proceed more quickly, more effectively. On the other hand, we have control of the financial system in Slovenia, which is carried out at a given time by the following supervisory authorities: Banka Slovenije, Securities Market Agency, Insurance Supervisory Agency, Public Audit Authority. And the proposal for this law is to merge the two agencies, namely the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency with the Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. This step in the area of financial market surveillance also seems appropriate to me to bring together two agencies, namely the ATVP and the AZN. There have been some similar thoughts in Slovenia in the past. This has not happened, but we know that a few things in previous governments have not come to reality, but under this government comes, I would say, into reality and I am sure that such a step is right. I am sure that in Slovenia we are too reserved for certain changes, we have a lot of concerns, but in this area it seems necessary to do this synergy and then use all these synergies. Last but not least, other countries have legislation united into agencies, we are, I would say, here Slovenia is alone in this area. I see more positive things here than negative. It is also a fact that certain concerns which the opposition is mainly carrying out are unjustifiable. It is necessary to emphasise here that all these agencies, which are here, will not be headed at a given time, but I would say that everyone who performs this function under these individual supervisory authorities will retain their mandate until the end of their term of office. This seems important to me, and there's no way that there's an obvious possibility that, because of, I'd say, a human resources intervention of this matter is bringing this thing together. Far from it. I think there will be more positive effects here than negative. But there is another matter to be said. Today is the first reading of this law. This means that today Parliament gives the green light that this law is suitable for further consideration. We all know that this law will then deal with the mother's working body and then come back to the plenary. I think the Secretary of State, Mr Zajc, has already said that certain proposals here will be taken into account. Last but not least, in the legislative process itself, even during these governments, the proposals made by the opposition were taken into account. I am convinced that the common goal of all of us, the 90 Members, should be to make this law even better. I think that this debate is on the table today, and Parliament also intends to discuss various aspects. Finally, perhaps even a view or a proposal made here by opposition Members or Members of Parliament is in place and I do not rule out that any good proposal here today will also be taken into account. However, it would not be the case that this law, I would say, is rejected solely because it was proposed by this government, the government of Janez Janša, the coalition, SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC. I think this marriage could also be supported today. I will personally support him and I am sure that this law is being implemented through legislative procedures that are yet to be improved. But I absolutely support this merger of agencies, and I think we should get to some associations before, and certainly now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! Yeah, that's the first reading; well, I hope it's the last one, because what's in front of us today, and what the government has been carrying lately before us, I have a feeling that it's really ripped you off there. Because it doesn't make any sense anymore, and it doesn't have any basis anymore, just, of course, that you put your people everywhere. In the proposal, you remove eight independent agencies, you merge them into those two superagencies, and in fact you take away total autonomy, the independence of these individual agencies, and, of course, you increase this political action of yours. It is very understandable that the proposal was prepared, of course, as a number of other things, in silence. The agencies we're talking about, the agencies you're bringing together, which you're actually destroying, have not been informed of this at all. But of course behind is that exclusive, your only goal – political recruitment! Comrade Pogačnik said that we are against only because this is the proposal of the government of Janez Janša. Far from being against it. We're against this because, Your Honor, I'm going to read you the answers of all the agencies, from the first to the last. Communication Networks and Services Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, AKOS: “We oppose the proposal because the uniform regulation of all agencies due to the specific requirements of the European directives and the functions of each regulatory agency and the nature of its tasks is neither appropriate nor possible.” Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia: “We do not support the association of agencies, because it is contrary to the European legal order and to the energy market and to consumers it does not bring any benefits.” Thirdly, the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, AVK: »The proposal of a law whereby eight regulators would be merged into two agencies is contrary to all democratic norms and regulations in force in Slovenia and to European directives. The independence and independence of the Agency would be substantially reduced.” Let's move on. Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, AVP similar positions. Public Agency for Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia, JACL: “We do not agree with the proposal of the law and we believe that it is contrary to all the rules in the field of aviation.” Similarly, the Public Railway Agency. Well, let's also go to the combined agency of the Republic of Slovenia for financial markets, they also say, namely, the Securities Market Agency, ATVP: "We have not participated in any stage of drafting this law, nor have we received a proposal for a law in the opinion. In our view, the decision to merge ATVP and AZN is political. In terms of policy as an expert, however, the way such legislation is inappropriate.” So that's why we're against everything; because you're combining something that works perfectly normal, just for the sake of the government's own political benefit. Dear Secretary of State, I am truly ashamed that I have ever voted in this national council that you were a minister in the previous government. Because such a sale of views and what the SMC is doing is below the level of human dignity. I'm sorry. And what you are doing now to talk about some transparent funding system, you will achieve exactly the opposite; you will mix funding sources, budgets, own resources of agencies, you will wipe out all transparency and, of course, create an opportunity for financial manipulation. But you know, we talked about financial hooliganism earlier in each other's law. This is not just financial hooliganism but financial manipulation, it is also humane hooliganism and human resources manipulation. That's too bad! Because, of course, you will now appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government – and we know how you have arranged for yourself in the National Assembly, that you will not even allow Members to vote in the legislative process. I don't know, but it's hard to believe that it's nothing but a political setting of your own. And of course to those who obey you, and to those who serve you, you give them a high price. One more thing about this autonomy and independence that you spoke of earlier. You're breaking a lot of articles. In the area of competition protection, it is considered that the Government is somehow not interfering. And with this you pull the government completely into the system, it is said that the ministry responsible for transport can cooperate and give instructions. And of course, the Government can also introduce sectoral research and procedures to enforce competition rules. So not only do you want to politicise this agency, but you are also violating the European legal order with this. But it's okay. When you say that this has also happened in other European countries. See, in particular for this case that you are referring to, it happened, but it took two, almost three years for it to be established with a high political debate, with a high professional discussion and then with a political and professional agreement on how matters will work. In the meantime, I think that this was in Spain, and I don't hold my tongue, because of one such merger, the agency was destroyed for almost three years, it didn't work, which resulted in a severe financial loss. Finally, it is already being said that proceedings will be initiated as a result of violations of the European legal order. As far as I know, Akos has even received an official reminder because of the inadequate transposition of the provisions, where the government has already become too involved in the work of the Agency. Of course, as with the many other laws that we witness during the government of Janez Janša, you are interfering with one law in many others, in this case in 38 different laws and my only conclusion here is that your motive is simply and only political submission of these important subsystems of the Slovenian State and the provision of direct control or interference with the work of independent and autonomous regulators. After all, this is just one of the options you are giving yourself, no, are given to you, so that you will obviously be able to exceed the number of thousands of personnel in the government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Nice greeting also to you, representatives of the government, in our Slovenian Parliament! There's one question ahead of me, and there's one question ahead of us. Do we believe what you are saying by representatives of the minority government, which, of course, you have in Parliament two contractual opposition groups that are on your side, or do we believe you, on the right, that what you say is true? Do we believe that you are creating a better organizational creation, which will be leaner, you have spoken, which will be more effective, which will make life more beautiful in our beautiful country? You have to understand that if I had chalk, I'd write two letters a lot, no. I don't believe a bit. I'll tell you why. Even if we had good intentions, you really can't do that. People who are not able to organize vaccinations so that the most vulnerable population gets the best vaccine and the administrators in the ministries may be slightly worse, I do not believe that you are able to make a digital breakthrough. People who are incapable of controlling epidemics that you are using professionally as a fog to cover up your political decisions, I do not believe that you are capable of carrying out a demanding project in such a way that it will be effective. People who are unable to hold public debates on the national recovery and resilience plan, and then from your big words that the investment package of €5.2 billion is ahead of us, we are now falling to €3.2 billion, as recorded in the last paper in the tables. I don't believe your intention is to do anything better in the field of surveillance. I don't believe it. Then I wonder why you're doing this if you can't drive essential things like controlling an epidemic. And I think the answer is quite simple. Follow your mantra, for which I have heard someone speak like this last time, and it is only one: Make this country – and then this intermediate article changed slightly – subordinate to the SDS, and sometimes this is replaced. That's the only thing you do. The whole country, with the support of the kimowans, whose clear opinion we no longer really hear, which would be theirs, their own, in their own conviction, their own education, if you will, even their faith. All you do is subjugate everything you can in Slovenia. I've been watching today, and probably all of you, because we're still getting the news from the STA, that these wonderful practices, that the person who walks all over Slovenia is accessible everywhere and the mailman just can't find it. Now the mailman won't even find the government to deliver the documents. So where did we come from? So where did we come from? Today, your High Representative from another party to the coalition said that it was in fact clear that if the mail also came to an address that was not entirely true, it should be delivered somewhere else. But basically you want to change this Slovenia quickly. Everything that is independent and thinks with its head and protects the democratic values of the Republic of Slovenia is subordinated because time is no longer much. That's how I see this project now ahead of us. I don't believe in your good intentions, I don't believe that those studies that even in the Netherlands have lasted two years, I don't believe that in the background there is a serious thought for experts about how to make control in this country better so that life is easier and better. I just don't believe it. This is another political project that will have exactly the same effect from the point of view of society as a whole as your control of the covida-19 epidemic. Well, by the way, now I remember, like your government, assigning extras to covid-19. I didn't even know what the parliamentary group presented today, that you gave thousands of euros to people in cabinets, but people who were in contact with sick people who were ill with the elderly received five times or ten times less. Aren't you ashamed? That is why this project, which is ahead of us today, is a project to subdue Slovenia as a whole. I'm not going to go into that detail, because you've already told the predecessors well before me, and you will. I also believe that if this happens by chance, it will happen, because you have with the treaty opposition sometimes the majority, but sometimes it will not be one of the projects that citizens and citizens will have to agree on. They'll have to. People need to ask whether they agree to change Slovenia in the image of one of the countries bordering Slovenia. My answer is no. I don't want to agree to that. In case most people answer yes, we'll just go that way. But I don't believe that's true. We can also agree to measure it this way. This immediate measurement would be called a quick early election. And those who advocate Slovenia under a different form of almost social regulation, where everything is subordinate to one and everything is under control, would face us who think otherwise. If you people think that you want to go in a direction of control, of submission, of giving the majority, then it is the will of citizens and citizens that you would not be happy with, but it would be the majority will. But I don't believe it would be. But it is only possible to respond to this only in the early elections, because, in fact, and I am ending it, the current coalition consists of parties who, before the elections, have made a clear and loud promise that they will not be in such a coalition. So it's a scam. Just like this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u145	Nataša Sukić has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. I started with the questions. Are you kidding? Are you kidding me? Do you realize what you're doing? Of course you're aware of what you're doing. This proposal for a law is not only a big mistake, as one of the colleagues said nicely in his debate, but this law is a great fraud, respected and respected. And I'm going to make the exact argument, and I've already argued in the introductory position why. We are practically unique in Europe. Look, overnight, absolutely intransparency, without calling the regulators' representatives to co-form such a merger, in complete conspiracy, in secret you have prepared a proposal that literally takes autonomy, and overnight, on the head, takes autonomy to the eight agencies and merges them into two so-called superagencies. Then here you're saying it's a Dutch model. No, it's not. They spoke for two years and only three regulators, not just eight. They didn't create salads like you do when it's completely incompatible. We're listening to the most beautiful empty markers here today. We listen to words like synergies, rationalisation, transparency, debirocratization and similar ballast. Really? Let me tell you, Mr Secretary of State, because apparently others no longer have the courage to stand before us, who are in higher incest than you, or do you have an analysis of the situation that would prove the usefulness of such a merger of different agencies. Do you really have an assessment of the effects of mergers? And if you do, I'd like to know why you didn't introduce this to us and why we didn't get it in the papers. Why didn't we get this in Parliament, which is the legislative body? Why do we listen to empty, high - sounding words that really mean nothing? I can spell it out, too. It's a regular, I don't know, facade, what you're doing. As I've already told you about this famous debirocracy of yours, unless it's with your law coming in, where you'll mine over 100 or 200 or how many laws in this country, because you'll mine everything, you'll actually blow everything up. Your famous debirocratization, which you so like to refer to, and which I read on the boards, on the jumbo. Last time I drive to Maribor and just watch, the SDS all over the country advertises debirocraticism, because it is now a miracle formula. Debirokratization. Sounds like, of course, it's such a pianist trick, an empty marker. What does that mean? What does that mean? I'll tell you what that means. This means you're opening up, and it's not so much about human resources change, of course, it's about human resources change, but now you've stepped back a little bit, because in the first proposal you wanted to bring down all the directors immediately, now you're going to let them finish the mandate, it's about reducing the power of control, it's about political subordination. But the great miracle worker, Minister Restoration, has had a little trouble with it ever since. I remember, even with the Sharchev government, when it was hearing, I asked him at the hearing, how he imagined the autonomy and independence of the agency, say AVK, if he does not have his own budget line, but is on the budget line within the Ministry of Economy. There was already a tendency to subjugate, and by this point, or I hope it will remain, at least it should have been an autonomous agency. This is no longer in line with how these agencies are financed, under what control or pressure they can be only through this. And that was my question back then at the hearing. But let's stop blinding ourselves. I'm just reading, like, a week ago, the 15th Apollo Fund and the Hungarian OTP Bank are tightening their fingers on NKBM again. Again, twice. A billion Euros are willing to give for this. But who can stand against such concentration? This is a concentration of 30% if memory doesn't fool me in our banking market. That would be the highest concentration. Hungarian capital, respected and respected. It's all going in the direction of a great friendly alliance with our brother Orban, isn't it? Hungarian capital. And that's what this is all about. Swear to the poultry agencies, subjugate them so you can, the OTP bank will jump up and take over the NKBM. Then you probably intend to sell various media and companies to another Orban oligarchy, say, as I said, Planet TV, Petrol, Evening and so on. It's not an innocent matter. This OTP thing doesn't cover, respectable colleague. [[...]] Read about it. A week ago, it said the Apollo Fund was pressing again to take over the OTP. And that's it, Your Honor and Your Honor. And regulators are those who are autonomous of course, who judge concentrations and who sometimes say no. But if you have everything under control, we'll never hear it again, and you'll do exactly what suits you. And then wet here about the Dutch model. What Dutch model? I told you, for two years they've been talking, having an open debate, including all relevant stakeholders. They didn't work as conspiracy as you did. So much for your transparency, your high-pitched words, how transparent everything will be. Oh, the crying will all be transparent. Just as your preparation of this has been transparent, it will be transparent. They brought together only three regulators, namely the competition guard, the telecoms market regulator, who had previously been joined by the energy agency there and the consumer protection office. That's all they did. In addition, for two years, they were open - minded and patient. Not just overnight. Come on. Come on, I really recommend that when you're in such a hurry to facilitate the consolidation of economic power in the country, instead of bringing together two super-agencys here, you submit to the NPU, you submit to the FURS, you submit to the SURS, and so on, what if you set up one super-staff completely from there. Because that's what you do. SDS super headquarters and other sub-departments. I don't even know what you think when you nod. Even in the coalition, dear people! The coalition doesn't mean you always have to nod if anyone remembers anything. Do you always have to nod? I guess you have to. Because the kind of stupidity you do, and the social damage you do, it's something amazing. This must be a very special talent for you to screw up so many things in one year and you're always doing worse things. We'll take this to the referendum. If you're going to push this, force it through this disaster, literally a disaster, realize, there's a referendum to follow, and we won't leave it to you. Because this has actually gone beyond the very limits of sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Given that the first consideration is the general discussion of the bill, it is not right that in any way, in its debate, I touch my respected predecessors, the predecessors, when they somehow appear to be all possible as part of some political debate, but struggle with little of the relevant content. Legitimate, convenient in the spirit of today's day. I must admit, as I have mentioned, my fundamental question, which has also prompted me from the debate so far, who in the Republic of Slovenia wants any changes in the state administration. Nobody. Apparently no one. The reference to entities which are persons of public law and who are independent and independent so far, and also following a new proposal, is certainly not strongly interested in any action by a slightly different approach to work in the 30-year system of government in the Republic of Slovenia, if we can talk about that as a state administration in the service of the country. Not everyone, but what we are talking about today, it is simply necessary to have this approach before our eyes and also to discuss it in this general debate. I am deeply aware, however, that it would certainly be unusual for the opposition to want to show support in the current constellation after some change in the state administration. Legally and here I have absolutely no problem. However, I must admit that I will start my debate with a fundamental question as regards today's agenda item, and with the following. Do these institutions and bodies act optimally and satisfactorily in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, with the internal arrangements and competence of the established institutions and bodies, if I can put certain dilemmas or questions into the subgroups? Is the country's expected and satisfactory service to the users of its services, referred to as natural and legal persons or persons of different legal status? Do the systems of the State which are exclusively intended for the market for the service perform the entrusted mission optimally with regard to the response time, in a specific case, to applicants? Are individual institutions so organised and structured that they are adapted to today's time needs? In 30 years, the government has virtually no change in its existence. And if I can keep going. When we are talking in this case, adapted to today's situation, are these institutions or authorities of the state administration so adapted to follow the modern needs of governance and governance in the context, if I may say so, of an increasingly established approach abroad to the functioning of the state administration with the approaches of a competent model, with the strategies of key staff, administrative management and so on? While truly pursuing and implementing its own strategic objectives, it is in the knowledge that any public administration that is dedicated to the practical market for services is purely a service and must be professional and responsive. Don't make it sound like I'm thinking it's all bad. But it is not all the way it wants to be presented in such political debates, when we leave things alone, because the system is very good. Simple political deceiving and conveniently in such political debates. There's one more thing I'd like to touch. Even in the National Assembly, and I don't think in this composition, even in the past, there was too little attention. I can say that there are too many cases where the so-called cost aspect of the operation of an individual public administration body, which is subject to an almost unwritten rule: it spends, consumes everything it has been allocated to it. Although not necessarily necessary for the functioning of the body, it is simply the mindset of the institution's management that if I spend less in the year, I will also get less money in the next financial year. Meaning, use resources, even if there is no need for rationality to act smoothly. So much for when we are always touching ourselves that the government should not be rationalised in any way by any approach. I can say that I could list a number of reasons for this kind of thought, but I am of the view that after three decades it is reasonable to approach and somehow take certain steps, that in certain areas very much the government may be aware that the time has come when something needs to be changed. I must admit that, personally, I am always very much in favour, and in general, I am of the view that the changes that make sense are simply a driving force for development. All those of us who have been in the economy for a long time in the past have faced and have also been very aware that the practice in the economy means improvement. That is why I am also of the view that certain changes also mean improvements in the state administration. Why should it not be considered a state administration, it is said that its internal structure through various institutions and bodies, even in this direction, but not that many of us and the users of the services of the State face the fact that a number of authorities are acting in a way that is primarily directed at it alone. Therefore, as it is said, I do not see any particular reasonable reason why, if I use the word “kosteneli”, a 30-year organisational approach to the functioning of the state administration might not change slightly in a certain part. In front of the eyes, it is necessary to have literal rationalisation, synergistic effects, and I can also say that in some mild form, so-called restructuring. Of course, in such processes and procedures, it is necessary to keep in mind, in the first place and far ahead, that in most cases the public administration is the service of the so-called State to the users of the service or, if I am specific, the investors of the application, of course, the concomitantity of the so-called legality and expertise of the particular decision. In this general opinion, I firmly believe that this applies to the so-called State Administration, which consists mainly of various Directorates and Agencies. In particular, the agencies play a very specific role in our area in the functioning of the state administration because of their substantive missions, which are very specifically defined in individual laws. And that's the way it is. In this context alone, the current system of operation of individual agencies, and also in the draft law before us, is very clearly stated and the position remains that it is an organ, a public law person, with complete autonomy and independence. I will also mention something else in this regard. What I would like to point out on this occasion has been heard a little, except in the opening presentations: why combine the six previously independent agencies into one and combine the two so-called financial regulators into one? As has already been said, once again, both agencies are literally staying with the proposal. Those who have looked at the proposal of the law have seen clearly written down, and I will repeat that they remain legal persons of public law, which means that the founding right and obligations are being realized as is the case with the law so far, are said to be realized by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What, though, is to be pointed out, common to both agencies, as proposed? Whether we want to hear it or not, the fact is that there are certain synergies when we merge. I'll just give you a few. What is very important is that, with the same resources and in the short term, greater efficiency is ensured. Individual service users of certain agencies have different experience, and this is not negligible. In a number of cases, it is very exemplary. However, there are also plenty of cases where, simply by reference to the so-called administrative procedure, procedures are delayed. So I won't talk about any more regular or extraordinary remedies to delay the procedure. One of the key issues is certainly a greater integration of the policy of individual areas in the strategic area. What I would certainly point out is the rationalisation of information systems. The following is not negligible: various records, registers, websites and the availability of parties to such matters. However, the weakness of the work so far is mainly that there are no more detailed analyses of the work processes in individual agencies and their adaptation to the needs, as I have already mentioned, of market participants who are beneficiaries of these services and their competences. However, I still owe a few more words, which have already been mentioned several times, not in a positive, more negative direction, bringing together two financial regulators. Here I have to admit whether or not I want to hear it, in the Republic of Slovenia it has been a good 10 years of idea to bring together financial regulators, namely the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Bank of Slovenia banking control sector. This idea has been present for many years, even in government circles, but in the end there was not enough political will to bring together financial regulators. I must admit that one of the key elements that did not result from this merger of all three such important financial regulators was just by the Bank of Slovenia. Even now that we have just before us the proposal to merge the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency, Banka Slovenije simply does not want to be involved, of course with the support of the European Central Bank. Whether that's good or not, we'll definitely see it from here on out. However, I can say that, for the work of financial regulators so far, we cannot say that it has been bad, but everywhere and almost every case can be improved. It is important to remember not as much back as the discussions on the parent committee, in a particular case the registry accounts where the financial regulator, the Securities Market Agency, firmly placed themselves in a professional position that was not liked by both those holders of the register accounts and part of the policy of this national assembly. What happened? The Constitutional Court then confirmed the correctness of the decision of the financial regulator and this simply results in something. Why am I quoting this case? In particular, because the procedures of the financial regulators are very specific and difficult, they are not liked or written by a wide range of operators on the market. Not to be taken into account, I believe that the merger of these two financial regulators is also necessary, as this literally concentrates on the knowledge that is still necessary in any established procedure against potential violators in the so-called insurance market or securities market. The synergies of the merger are certainly an advantage, and I expect that this will also affect a more stable financial market in the Republic of Slovenia. In this type of comparison, it is also right to look at the practice of what is happening on the so-called German capital regulators, Dutch, Austrian and so on. To conclude, I am not saying that the bill is ideal, but I am firmly in the position that it is suitable for confirmation at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mark Bandelli has the word to prepare Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u150	Thank you, President, for your word. My predecessor, I can't help but say something to him. His first words, that no one likes to change the situation in this public administration, are a big lie. We want to change, but not that way. It's not a system to change that. This is the destruction of the system, so to speak, as a national assembly at this time. What's going on now is no longer a national convention. You understand. This has become a company that has one administration. The board says we're all workers here. Poor thing. There's nothing we can do. There's nothing we can do. Nothing at all. Committee membership is not, or in my opinion, a number of committee presidents who are not supposed to be presidents. But let's let it stop. Let's get to the point. The government wants to end the independence of eight public agencies. Here's the point. Independence. That's all there is to it. That people know. Because those who listen to you, Mr Verbich, you have spoken for seventeen minutes, I believe that they have not quite understood what the purpose is right now. It's to destroy these regulators. These agencies, which have now been here, have done nothing but practically regulate capital markets, insurance companies, competition, energy, telecommunications, media, postal services, transport, railways, aviation. All of this will go into one basket, which one small political group will be able to manage. That's a mistake, if you don't understand. Since you said this was the perfect thing right now, but I have to say it's not true. More. It wants to concentrate virtually all matters in two public agencies, the consumer market and the financial markets. As I mentioned, it would be the first to do energy, communications, postal services, but above all, competition protection, this is a problem, and consumer protection. Are they going to be the same people who are going to control the energy or what? I don't think that goes together. It's not working. The latter will bring together, this is the former Insurance Supervisory Agency, which is a very important issue, and the Securities Market Agency. We know that everything that is being done here is in fact not in line with the European acquis. It's not consistent. But that is not in line with the European legal order and much more, we are already used to it in this national assembly, which has become a company, is no longer the will of citizens. And now what is the common denominator of all this? All this independence and independence will essentially be under government command, nothing else. In short, renewed control and power of the Prime Minister, that's all. This has been the goal since the beginning of this government, to concentrate as much as possible on having control over everything. A destructive policy for our country is this. Where are we going? On this system? This is a pure autocratic system for me. I don't see anything else. And what does it mean, dear colleagues, when somehow one political subordination is established, if you say so, by regulators? In fact, the government and the coalition are formally establishing a literal possibility of cartel arrangements. That's it. Because that's what's gonna happen. There will be cartel arrangements, and that's clear. And I'm gonna end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Next up, Mr. Rudi Bear, get ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Well, this time I must say that I am truly, truly glad that I am not in the shoes of the Secretary of State in this case or any of the coalition Members. Because it would be very difficult or impossible to defend a marriage as softly and unselfishly as it is in this case. Otherwise, I did not expect any in-depth justification for the merger of these agencies if there was no basis for adopting this law in that thick pile. How can someone make it up now if there are so many and so many sides? And then we listen all the time about synergies, whatever this is in this case, lean administration – what lean administration, if everything stays the same, if the agencies remain practically in the same composition, even in the same spaces? Synergies. No one has justified here at least roughly what this means in this case. Is this more than a common use of some kind of copier, for example? Knowledge transfer. Just flossules. We also missed an analysis of the situation or what this marriage would bring us. Then we heard her. Well, thank God, we heard her. A colleague from the SDS party very well presented this analysis of the situation or what we can expect. And he said this: more positive than negative. It's a state analysis, you see. Of course, I justify it in terms of synergies, thin administration, transfer of knowledge. They found that it would still be more positive than negative. So at the start, they recognize that this law brings negative things, but it may also be positive. Maybe it'll be even more positive. So for this analysis of the situation, I have to say that I'm grateful, and now it's a lot easier. However, the Secretary of State has also triggered one very important matter in his own not to say in-depth, performance. In fact, the agency now sees good interlocutors as a group of these agencies. Look, now they're seeing high-quality interlocutors! When we found that only the text of this law came under strict secrecy, even intelligence officials probably could not reach the content, that it was the least important what those to whom this law was intended and whose work it would regulate. We have heard several times today that not one of the agencies has actually been heard, but they had about one afternoon there, and some of them may have been able to respond all the time. Some of them don't. And now after all this, the government sees good interlocutors in them. With this octrogen regime, it is a fully-octrolated arrangement and completely detracts people who work in these agencies if they are already placed in a position of completely overlooked professions. The profession in the making of this law did not have a single word at all, let alone any word of public opinion. But, you know, the purpose of this is not hard to overlook. If we find out in fact, even though the government itself finds out which law somehow wrote that nothing is actually changing and that this law does not affect anything, but some purpose must be. There must be a purpose. When you write down in a marriage so many times that the agency will be independent and independent, so many times, I didn't go to count, but the shame that I didn't count how many times, that's why you don't believe that the purpose is, in fact, to keep these agencies, folded into two baskets, independent and independent. And of course, as we have already been trained, it is about political sub-systems or social sub-systems sub-systems. Although in this case it would be really good for all of us to pull the hand brake together and to leave behind at least one subsystem, which has not yet been dismantled, the government and the ruling coalition, because it will take years and years to fix after you if we want to return to some normal state. On this occasion, I would also like to place it on the heart of the Secretary of State or the Government, for God's sake, to stop comparing it with the Dutch model. I hope that this will not happen to the Dutch, but this law has just as much with the Dutch model as the Dutch Mountains do with Slovenia. He's got just as much to do with the Dutch model. Lidija, a colleague, pointed out that she was moving her seat, because two agencies now have a seat in Maribor. I would only add to this so much that, for substantive reasons, I really will not support this law, even if we intend to move the two agencies to Zagorje.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next debater is Dr. Franz Duck, prepare Mrs. Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Why not move something to Zagorje, where there are also intelligent and pleasant people? A lot has been said so far, but when I listen to this, I remember a KNJF when we had it, these days are flying so fast, when we talked about how the European Central Bank should be more regulated, and then there was a SMC speaker, and earlier, the absent Marko from SDS, had a problem with a proposal that contained "democratic control", if you do, what do you have in banking to do democratic control. The moderator of this law by the SDS said merger on the market. These agencies aren't some kind of rat that's gonna come together a little bit. These agencies are not, as our expert Prague has prepared, bringing together the two biggest traders who offer children and babies in Slovenia and mothers and caregivers and parents something. We're already living in a society where there's a lot of activity before duopol or not. What do we got? Chemofarmation, Salus, one and a half, by the way. We also need agencies to do this somehow. Then it was said to the directorate and the agencies. This is a small mix of some two matters that are very different for the purpose of their activities. At the Ministry we have Directorates covering some areas and we have some agencies that are sort of watch dogs, as they say in English. Already this merger of the securities market, insurance supervision, is already here the question of whether it is wise, smart, whether it is so similar or not. But if we look at the other six, sometimes, until I became an MP, I like to cook, and now I'm running out of time for that. You know, if you're cooking something on a spoon, you can't do something like that, and you open a refrigerator and you throw it all over. And you'll get something to end up in the E.R. What does the protection of competition have to do with whether or not I'm going to get a bumblebee? We'd kind of squeeze it together. Also from the symbolic why the energy agency belongs in Maribor, yes, because the first light bulb is there. We have such a nice memorial thing in the old town. Because the first serious hydropower plant started with us because it's still today, but unfortunately you want us to do it, including a huge amount of knowledge in the field of energy in our country. And then something happened that happened, that some gentleman, who then went to work in Vienna, could ride a bike on a rail. End of quote. And he came to Ljubljana. Even if you are a bit of a Hungarian or multi-grader, if Janša does not have time to tweet there, I believe he suffers greatly when the protocol takes place all day on bilateral visits. There, too, from the point of view of more equitable socio-space development, there are agencies and ministries located not only in or in the capital, as you often say for Ljubljana, but in the capital, 110th Article of the Constitution. If changes are already taking place in this regard, these changes, which take time, also require consideration of why something should be done. For a good quarter of the century, of course, we need some reform of local self-government, but not in a way that we will now do some regions, then that everyone will be satisfied, we will, I don't know, separate Maribor from the environment, and we will have something on Ptuj, something in Ormož, something somewhere. We had Earth Day yesterday, and today we're talking entropy. You know, according to this logic, as you say now, I don't know, the next phase is that Tonin will show up and he'll say that most of the Slovenian army's tribes will be joined together into the Infantry. But we're going to have another race, radio, biological, chemical warfare, and we're going to bring aviation together, because you're going to pour that poison off the plane, and then they're going to be the ones that are going to get the most crowded between themselves. That's kind of the logic here. My colleague Suk said it's over, it's bad. Suk, it could still be worse. That Cioran, my dear philosopher, said that there is no extreme pain, it is still easier to hurt. Marko said we'd become a company. We didn't become a company, we're basically some espa. A prominent member of the SDS has long said this to me in Minsk, because we are not a customer, we are a private company of one person, and somehow we are going in the direction of what some oligarch in Minsk does or who we once hid Youths in the army in which Janša wrote, and we have decided that we do not want Milosevic's model of development, somehow history repeats itself to us as a farce. And someone's getting revenge. I don't know why. Because he was thrown out of the Communist Union because Micah was more Kurdish than Kordish on the most Kurdish day, because he probably didn't win the presidency of the Socialist Youth Union at the time, because in the early 1990s he didn't have a war to control Slovenia with the Paravomists? And I could actually count it. And you want to sell this to us as rationalisation, because otherwise, as a candidate for the President of the National Assembly, we're going to live in some horrible socialism or something. If we were to have a serious conversation, we had a transposition of the so-called third EU energy package of legislation, on which almost the Energy Agency was kneeling when it received so many new tasks. And there we had to almost do a doctorate that then finally, we already started this under Cerar's government and then under Sharčev's government to get someone approved for the additional employment of four young people in Maribor. There is still much work to be done in Brussels to reflect on and legislation on how, in fact, great global campaigns in the area of cloudyness, tweeting up and down, literally as countries hold us by the balls. How will we put mobile telephony and everything around this computer technology on a higher level, and we need a humanely stronger Akos, not that we're going to combine it with Eizenpon now. Of course, we also need a better Eizenpon. It is also a bit logical here, after all, that this agency is in Maribor because Eizenpon first flew into Maribor. On the side of my dear, they also came from some border wine-growing places in beautiful Maribor. You know, the thing to fear most is those people who talk to you about debirocratization, or at that point, we're so much for the pensioners. These are the biggest bluffs. I think it's actually clear to a three-year-old kid. Then someone folds together almost 400 pages of the document and puts these people before the executed fact. In some situation, when the encounter with a cobbler begins, when, literally, this government, who wants to live on a 30 - year - old glory, does one big shit, as it were, let's do even more. Let's give people a little bit more heat on their lives. In one country, which is not exactly for the export of experts in such difficult areas, although some of these agencies will likely export themselves to a more normal foreign country and take away the knowledge we urgently need with them. After all, it's about people, it's about kids, I'd say SDS. Do you think these people who are shaking now, what nonsense will those super-stupid super-stupids cook for us again, can they leave all this at home when they get home? We can't even leave all the crap we talk here when we get home on the doorstep. As a result of this crisis, when the next analysis is done, healthy years of life are likely to decline. We could actually talk about that here, too. But someone whose only art of almost political survival was shit mixing or doing extraordinary things, because something else he doesn't know, he does and he does damage. And the vamarilia that supports it, that's what it's all about. Then I'm listening here, her, you've been in power for 25 years and you can't live up and down. I've never been in power, but I've never been able to live with myself. I've never been in power. But it's hard to live if there's such nonsense. And the yellow-blue safra furate, as my children would say when you're in opposition, you're saffron furry and you're doing damage when you're in power. And this is your timetable. And because there's a fellow Eizenponar, a train that takes us to a wall that we're going to hit hard. Now, at some point, when it becomes clear to us that we need a stronger country, a stronger infrastructure of solidarity than I would like to be told by my favorite Slovenian philosopher, when we also need more control through all the affairs you've been making in 13 months, of course it needs to be spread out. I don't know, there's probably something to be spilled out, because someone's looking at a minister who's gone on the inside to buy Petrol's shares, and it's an excuse to keep quiet at that meeting when we talked about it. Well done, great. Democratic control over the surplus. But as I said before, look, since the people at this spatial assembly have survived the wars, they will also survive the third government of John Janez Janša. Soon it will be over, so much better for all of us, but there will be a lot of work ahead of us, so that we can put all this bulky, overstretched legislation back to some sort of normal order. Because we probably forgot with all this noise that we got Zuif to the fifth power. Does the living God even know how many laws we've broken? One is if you have a deer back - I apologize to vegans and vegetarians - or a vegan approximation of the back of the deer and faka bacon and carrots and then you do it, but the other is if from all legislation. In constitutional parliamentary democracy is not ruled by Janez Janša, not by Suki, not by Franz Trček, there are laws. And you've fucked this up in a good year – and I'm very polite now in a saying – and now you have to destroy the regulators who are trying to control this half-breed. Basically, it's very simple for these agencies. It's in the final instance of what amount I have on the ticket and the citizens and the citizens, in most cases, whether someone is pushing me or not, and when I'm going to the stable, whether someone is pushing me or not. Yeah, it really needs to be destroyed. Great. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Janja Sluga, prepare for Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u156	The Superagencies Act is a school example of a re-trial of the subjugation of independent institutions and is reflected in this Government's efforts to take control of existing public agencies, which, apart from one, are also independent regulators. Under the mantra of some greater efficiency and achievement of positive effects or to use one term, synergies, because so often repeated in this material, do not even hide any tendency to experiment with political adhering and to rule according to some principle, yes or I want to-moral. Any attack or attempt to dismantle these regulators and independent institutions is unacceptable to us, especially if there is no serious and tangible analysis for these attempts, no numbers, no studies that would really be in favour of the objective set out in this merger. In secret, including without the knowledge of the parliamentary group, away from the public's eyes and in accordance with the Blitzkrieg principle, the MGRT prepared this bill and, most bizarrely, the Ministry requested the agencies to comment within one day. Hence, no one else was involved in the design but the ministry, a handful of individuals. Intersectoral coordination at government level also lasted, say, a day and a half. That we do not really mention other stakeholders concerned by this bill. They weren't there because they weren't wanted, because, as the Minister of Economy has said many times, they're just trying to keep their chairs. The government argues that the integration activities of these bodies take place primarily in the light of the de-liberation and monitoring of the objective of rationalising and optimizing work and creating conditions in which it is possible to work professionally and politically independently. If you believe me. Of course, that's not true. It is clear that this proposal has other objectives. When it comes to the conversion of the Dutch model, it is only necessary to say that the Dutch model was being prepared and then implemented for several years. In our case, it is also not a deliberate, strategic decision, but merely an attempt to head independent institutions and one of a number of personnel tsunamis. The integration of the eight agencies into the two so-called Super Agency will, according to the different areas, result in less efficiency and operationality, as well as less cost-effectiveness and flexibility of operations and operations, according to the way the government operates. As a result, neither agency nor agency will be able to respond successfully to the new challenges in the market. It is simply not possible to understand any benefits or positive effects from the content of the law itself. They are not listed either. There is no fact that would legally and professionally justify that the current system is ineffective. There is no argument which areas would be better controlled by combined control than they are now. There is also no presentation of the financial implications of pooling regulators for the state budget or for other public funds. The law will largely reduce or even abolish the autonomy, independence and autonomy of eight public agencies with more than €30 million per annum. The newly established ones will thus be subordinated to every one of them. Let me remind you that this is also contrary to the requirements of international conventions and European directives, where it is explicitly stated that the regulator has to regulate the interests of all market stakeholders by acting impartially and independently of any political or private interests. The political, financial and human resources independence of regulators is crucial as this is also a condition for the preservation of international certificates. Of course, regulators cannot be independent just on paper. This has been repeatedly pointed out by various international institutions. The new agencies will also cause much confusion in the system on the issue of competence and transparency, and consequently, contrary to what the government claims, they represent a significantly worse service for citizens and citizens, which will also, of course, reduce their effectiveness, visibility and trust. This proposal will also reduce the protection of consumers and other market players and raise the issue of regulation, transparency, the competitiveness of the Slovenian market and the business space in our country. Let me remind you that in the original version of this proposal, the government has even proposed that the management or directors of the agencies confirm what the government itself is. Of course, there is now a change in the proposal itself to continue leadership, of course on a proposal from the government, to confirm the national assembly. Even after such manoeuvres, it is clear that the objectives of the proposed law are not to be hidden where they are listed on paper. The regulators merge because it is easier to politically subjugate two agencies than eight of them. All agencies, from first to last, responded to the proposal of the law and are critical to its contents. The proposal is opposed, they believe that it is in breach of an internationally established system, that it is contrary to all democratic norms and regulations and that it is also contrary to several European directives, which in fact prohibit the mandate of the management of agencies to terminate because of their reorganisation or merger. It is also problematic that some agencies are already responsible for several substantive areas, such as Akos, which covers both telecommunications, railways and mail as well as electronic media and radio spectrum management. These are already so many, so wide and so difficult areas that further attaching some areas to one agency can be very problematic. The contents are not necessarily compatible and this could only result in additional costs, longer procedures and irreparable damage in the regulatory system. That the very ability to exercise control over such an area is particularly problematic, I probably do not need to lose words. Looking at the wider picture, in other Member States of the European Union, they do not really know such brutal cases of pooling and subjugating regulators. The government refers to the Dutch model, which is far from being optimal and has not brought the regulatory authorities together in any way to the extent envisaged in this proposal. In addition, it is a bad example because the Dutch model also criticised the OECD and the Dutch are in the process of changing their model right now because they have found after so many years that it has not produced the effects they thought it would bring. The appetites after the adoption of the agency law are great. This is clear from how the law was prepared and how it is also presented in public. Cylinders and worn-out phrases about greater efficiency and synergies of integration are not enough today. If the replies and explanations of government representatives are yet to come and if they are as they have been explained to Members and Members behind closed doors, then that is certainly another reason to reject the law today. While the ambitions of subjugation of national regulators were already present in the past, there was also an attempt to subordinate some of the supervisory functions of the Bank of Slovenia, but fortunately the attempt at that time failed. But it would be better for our country to fail this time. However, it is not an innocent matter, and this can also be seen from the European Commission's response, which should have already sent a warning to Slovenia in connection with this experiment, stating that the independence of national regulators from political influence and market interest is a key principle in a number of Union legal frameworks, thus ensuring impartial and transparent decision-making. European legislation requires Member States to provide the agencies with sufficient resources and powers to carry out their tasks effectively, while also protecting the management of the agencies from early termination of their mandate. The Commission also recalls that if the said association of agencies occurs, Slovenia will violate the European legal order and risk the European Commission's actions before the Court of Justice of the European Union. All of this is problematic and all of this leads us to conclude that there is therefore a single objective: to subdue these agencies. Despite the fact that the inter-departmental coordination was one day, some ministries responded. One ministry alone sent 20 pages of comments. There's only the Ministry. And these are the weighty comments. Some of them, I admit, are even taken into account, but the minimum number of those listed here. Let me mention once again the Dutch model because we went to count how many agencies and how it combines the Dutch model and how it is envisaged in this law. If we convert this into numbers, we get the following value: 33% of the less concentrated areas are in the Dutch model, which is already as bad and they change it as I said. The Netherlands has no combined air transport, safety and only partially associated transport. It's all in your head, and behind closed doors, it's all in your head. When it comes also to de-mobilisation, when it comes to greater efficiency, to reducing costs, and then finally to information that employees in the current agencies will keep their jobs and rights from the working relationship when they move to the new two super-agency. Then what's the point, I ask you. Then what's the point? We have also had discussions with several agencies that have expressed an interest in having these talks. They made it very clear, on the basis of arguments, contrary to the government, on the basis of arguments as to what was wrong with this law. Although I am surprised to see colleagues from our former Joint Members' Group sitting at these meetings and hearing what these people have to say. If I focus on one of the agencies, the Civil Aviation Agency, for example. In 2010, the Agency for Civil Aviation found a number of inconsistencies in its review by ICAO. Then, after 2010, the Agency was established as a stand-alone agency and, in fact, closed all non-compliances until 2019, except for one. Today, Europe sees it as one of the best agencies in Europe, followed by others and asked for their opinions, asking for their help. This agency specifically employs 65 people, of whom 48 are supervisors. These overseers are people who get to know each other in this particular area. Each agency also now has employed experts who are expected to be one from each area in the new law. Now please tell me how this one person will be able to manage professionally and competently all areas that will then join together in this one superagency. I really want this answer because we've never actually gotten it before. Now, if I make any more haste about the position of my former colleagues and what our position was. As you may recall, in 2017 the then Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnikar, also essentially prepared one law that was supposed to somehow unite public agencies, by not being half of what we now have on the table. Significantly less rigorous, significantly more emotionally written, there was a substantial number of arguments about why and how. As a matter of fact, he's never been past what we have on the tables today. At that time, for example, coalition partners from Desus warned the minister and told him that the law did not have their support. At the time, the colleague Verbič, who had discussed earlier, was the one who really stopped the law and also made the most of his comments on that proposal. Once again, that proposal was significantly less rigorous. Most of his comments on the merger of the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, where counterpart Verbič, contrary to what he said today, pointed out that the independence of these agencies in relation to the executive branch was completely abolished and, in his view, the law in this part was a departure from European legislation. He also pointed out that the European Stability Mechanism and the European Financial Supervision System were opposed to interfering with the two agencies. You're against it. He also called on the Minister to determine whether these two agencies could be excluded from the merger. Finally, he said he was completely opposed to the bill. Today, of course, this same Member claims that the proposed law - as I said - which significantly interferes with the reorganisation of agencies alone - preserves independence and independence. He used the word “if” to preserve some of that doubt. And he claims even that the rights of establishment will be exercised even after the adoption of this law as it is now. And he also wonders whether these agencies are now a satisfactory service for citizens and that that is probably why a change is needed. I agree that at this point these agencies may not really be a satisfactory service for citizens and citizens, but there is not a word in this material about this, not a single argument, nor a passing analysis, that it will then be something different and that this service will be better. We don't really know. In fact, we do not know this because we are neither at the presentations, nor now in the debate we have heard no numbers, no arguments, no such substantive data that would lead us to actually improve in the service of these agencies to citizens and citizens. It was said that there was not enough political will in the past to bring together financial regulators. No, it wasn't. Those who say this today were the ones who argued the most and most strongly that such a merger for these two agencies is not good, that we should not do it and that it is not possible to support it. Once again, it is clear from all this that the only objective of this merger is to subjugate and introduce control, self-cracy and dictatorship over these agencies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The next debate is Susana Lepi Šimenko, prepared by Mr Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Much has already been heard here today about the law that is now at first reading. I repeat, at first reading, which means that it was not even possible to table amendments on the proposal of the law. Therefore, all of you, who have made a number of criticisms today, I call on you to respond appropriately to this, and to make this law even better if you now consider that it is not. There was a lot of talk to be done with the law. I can't agree with that. The law came to the National Assembly in October 2020, six months ago, and today we have a first reading of the law. This is a law on the public market agency, transport safety and consumers and the public financial market agency. We are talking about the merger of several agencies in two agencies, which I consider to be very positive, of course, on condition, as stated in the law, that all substantive areas remain the same. And that's what they're staying for. What is the key purpose of this law? To easily reduce the number of agencies. There has been a lot of talk here today to reduce independence, to end independence, to subjugate. Let me tell you, we have eight public agencies today, and these eight agencies are independent. But when we have two that will be set up in exactly the same way as those eight were established, we will talk about independence, because we will have a little less agency. I just can't understand it. Of course, I think it makes sense for them to unite in a way that makes the areas related. If we look at the Financial Markets Agency, we are bringing together the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market, which is related and financial markets. On the other hand, when we bring together six agencies, we bring together an energy agency, communication networks and services, transport safety, civil aviation, rail transport, competition protection and consumer protection. It's again, I'll say, related areas. But the content of all these areas in the laws remains exactly the same. What will change will change, however, that work in a smaller number of agencies can be substantially streamlined. And there was a speech, yes, it said about the synergistic effects. Of course, because certain services, we are talking about common services, IT, procurement, finance, personnel, we will no longer need six, eight, but we will be able to have two such services. Employees will be able to focus on those essential areas and this will also improve the quality of the service for citizens. I see significantly better efficiency in this myself, and I do not see one reason why we should have so many agencies in Slovenia. What disturbed me after all was that in some way you were already predicting that the citizens would have to be clear about it. Do you think that citizens in the Republic of Slovenia can list all the agencies that exist in the country? For certain agencies, I believe they know them, all of them, and they certainly do not know them, nor do they know what their substantive areas are. I really don't see why there's a problem. This so-called independence and autonomy is clearly defined in Article 5 of the Law, which everyone can read. Second of all, as we say, it's a first-reading matter. I propose that we complete the law together accordingly. I believe that it is not as optimal as any law we receive in the National Assembly is not optimal, but together we can make it so that it will be. At first reading alone, I absolutely support him and I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u160	Dear colleague, you are asking us to prepare the amendments. You're kidding. One amendment itself you'll get, and that's, collecting signatures for the referendum. Association of eight regulators in the way you go without even consulting and informing these agencies of your intention, but you informed them one day earlier, please! Then why are these agencies commenting on what they're commenting on, say, Akos? “In other laws, it was a regular practice for us to be involved in their preparation. The proposal for this law has a significant impact on the Agency’s competence and functioning, and it is therefore so much more surprising that the Agency was not even aware of the fact that such a law is being drawn up,” they wrote, for example, at the Communications Networks and Services Agency, Akos. For other laws that touch the work of the Agency, it is a regular practice for the Agency to be involved in their preparation before the draft law comes into inter-departmental treatment, for example in the preparation of the ZEKom-2, employees of the Akos are included in the working group from the very beginning of the preparation of the new law and so on. You've got to be kidding me! You have bypassed all possible procedures that are affecting some legal state, some democratic practice. You're out here fooling around asking what's wrong. It's all wrong, Your Honor. Everything. Such a combination on the head, without you showing us where these synergies are, showed some analysis of the effects. You didn't show us anything. You're just telling us the empty markers. Empty words are spoken highly by anyone who can recite them. I can give you ten more of these superlative adjectives, but that doesn't mean just one thing that you want to have real total control over everything. You are preventing independent control mechanisms in this country not only in the case of agencies, but this is now a step forward. This is a disaster, this is a breakdown of the entire system, which is what you're doing. This is clear to everyone and you are also really clear, but you're just kidding around so that I really don't understand that you're not embarrassed. It's just that you're not embarrassed to talk about the nebulosis you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Franz Rosec, preparing a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. There have been quite a few debates in this national assembly, which may not have been intended to address this bill either, but they may have been intended or, in fact, an opportunity for some former fellow Members to have reckoned with each other in the past. But I think the boys can settle this, these gardens will be open in a short time, and the guesthouses will settle there at the time of the drink, not that there are these traumas and those views, what was not, relax and burden us Members and all those viewers who are still looking at us. The law itself is a foundation, a copy of the Dutch. Whether Dutch is the best or not, each country makes a law that is more appropriate and appropriate for it. Every marriage changes over the years. Even in the economy, every thing improves, it complements, even if you look at formula one, every car that is at the beginning never ends the season, it improves in the meantime, and there is no disaster. One of the indications which has also been expressed that there has been a lack of public debate on this law. If I go back to the economy. There, the public debate looks something like this, when Gorenje took over Hisense in the past, there was no public debate. There's a new master, a new command, and that's it. Then there were some unionists from Gorenje, and no one took that into account. No one cared about Gorenje, the workers and what will happen. But when we get somewhere to intervene in public administration, it's the most sinous thing. In the past, or I am the first Member of Parliament, I remember one point when the Fiscal Council spoke -- that was us, the SDS, in the opposition -- what is the problem with Slovenia? Productivity. Productivity. This is one big challenge that will hit us very hard. Every time there is a proposal to start not only shrinking the economic sector and rationalising it to be more productive and contribute as much as possible to the budget, we say, what about the part that consumes part of the budget, but we must not touch it. Then you wonder why public debate should last as long as possible. Yes, so that those who have proposed the law may not see the green light in their mandate. And so again that part of this public sector remains intact. So we should ask each other a few questions here. When you look at some points, what are the reasons for bringing these agencies together? And I didn't see that by this law, those pluses that the agency was doing, they'd just shut me down. It's just some upgrade. Look at this. Establishment of a single IT system. We have different agencies and each agency must have another computer system. So we have eight agencies, eight different companies running this service, and that's money. If you say you're going to merge, we're going to have only two agencies, and we're going to have both a single computer system, and now that's the problem. Someone's getting smaller. I come from the energy sector myself. Just one typical example from the IT system. In the past, when energy gains were even higher, the IT system found that there was a good market niche. If we just look at the group, the holding company, and I think even Gen-Energy, every society had its own system. That everyone was serving. But there are now different times, systems are uniting to reduce costs. If it worked out well there, and it's also state-owned companies, and if something works out for the plus, we say let's do it in this part that's untouchable, which is a temple. Oh, then that's the problem. I don't think it's that much of a merger problem. The problem is that we use this proposal to interfere in some sort of kindergartens or in the interests of some sort of encounter. When the first target is a slim public administration, it's a certain stress. Public administration, I know it has to be, it's a citizen service, it's right that it is, but when I quickly want to get a certain information, it's a problem. Because the more impregnable it is, the better it is. There can be more at work, and for a long time, every matter lasts. And it lasts and lasts. And if the matter lasts, then you can also justify your job. You could still list it. I'm just saying, when you say you're going to rationalize something and do it transparently, transparently, that's the problem. If the economy of this system is to move forward, the time for public administration will have to come soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u164	Dear colleague, you're talking about transparency. Are you kidding me? What transparency it is to prepare such a radical intervention into agencies in a spirit atmosphere beyond regulators. Where's the transparency? Who are you making a fool of? That's what a man listens to! That's amazing! All you know how to say is thin public administration, debirocratization. And here you fool people and essentially set them on fire against public servants and public administration, on which you build your chalk. Just like you're building credo on smoking against different vulnerable groups and so on. That's how you guys work. It's a disaster. What a blindness. And what a lie. Transparency is discussed by people who have been preparing this merger in conspiracy, past public debate, past key stakeholders, that is agencies. You haven't even given them 24 hours to respond to such radical proposals. Well, that's outrageous! Unheard of! What you're going to do and what you're going to do in the National Assembly, what you've got all along the line, that's literally amazing. So stop gossiping about words such as transparency, debirocratization, thin public administration and so on, because it’s hard to listen to you because I’m going — sorry — to throw up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u166	Madam President, thank you for your floor. And a nice hello to you all on my behalf! So I'm going to start with one Serbian river when the pop has nothing to do and he's going to baptize the sheep. And that's exactly what this government is doing. He subjugates himself in the political sense of an independent agency, invents non-existent reasons, as previously said, for the IT system. Now imagine that the main problem of Slovenian independent agencies is the documentary system for the registration of mail and the storage of documentation. That this is the main problem and the main cause. This obviously makes us the government of fools to present such an explanation to us at all, and to vehemently defend it here in the National Assembly. There are 43 independent agencies in the European Union. Why they have 43 agencies at the European level, and we will have only two of us. Why does the European Commission not have two agencies? This clearly shows that the government is doing this for one purpose. If we link this to this IT documentation system, this means the complete submission of independent institutions. And if we link this to the Minister of Infrastructure's announcement that he wants to establish an international equity infrastructure fund, then let him make it clear that he wants to have full control over what kind of legislation will be adopted, what legislation will be proposed to be able to follow this objective. When we go to Maribor, where there are two agencies, the Energy Agency and the Railway Agency, we have not heard a single word about what is wrong with these agencies, where they are ineffective, what they want to improve. It's pure subjugation and destruction. This is the way to centralisation and poverty in the north-eastern part of Slovenia. The Energy Agency is the remainder of the former seat of the power economy of Slovenia. Now the government wants to subordinate what's left, instead of allowing the two independent agencies based in Maribor to make better use of this European potential, to strengthen them, and to strengthen them, it says, and we will rationalize 8 secretaries at the state level, and everything will be fine. The explanation presented to us is, in fact, a mockery of all of us and is unworthy, even unworthy debate when we have such, excuse me, political pamphlets, what will happen now, and now everything will be great. Slovenia is in crisis, the economy is in crisis and the government is now changing agencies that are doing well. There's not a single indictee that works badly. There's not a single indication that the agencies are working badly. Even in the National Assembly, we accepted their reports, became acquainted, never criticized. Now the government appears with such a proposal for two superagencies as if these reports, which are unrelated, were made up, the agencies are wrong and let us unite them and we do not even know why they should be combined and why we are merging them. Apparently, this is a higher cause, and this is political interest, political submission, setting up a regulation that is determined by the year that the economy can then exercise or take over or privatise or, as in the case of the second track, attempt to introduce a Hungarian partner when the financial structure is completed. This is how hostile takeovers are done, making the Slovenian economy poor, thereby privatising the Slovenian economy and robbing what generations of our parents and grandparents have created in the last 50 years. Of course we won't support that in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. It's a cakemaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u168	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I have to take this. Look, buddy Reich, I think your debate was too much. Look, there's gonna be changes. I'm sure you're being held back to change, but I think that most of the arguments you've made here don't hold or are misleading. I suggest you read this bill. The law is wide open. I think it's crucial that these agencies remain independent. In no way will the government subjugate them, nor will this change take place when this law is passed, in a different way as the administrations of these agencies have so far been called. It has always been included here either by the Government or by the National Assembly in the appointment of the management bodies of all these agencies. They weren't named by a third institute. Even if we look at financial institutions, the Insurance Supervisory Agency – the same procedure has always been followed: government, national assembly, ATVP, government, national assembly or vice versa. Let's be fair, let's be right, and let's discuss the actual situation, the facts that are. I'm gonna say one more time, first reading, lots of things to change. If there is any proposal of yours that is good, I am sure that the government or the State Assembly will eventually take it into account. I am convinced that any marriage on the table can be made even better with the help of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, you want a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u170	I particularly want us to be fair in this debate, and to make it clear that this law is adopted solely to subjugate and to replace leadership. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u171	Mr. Reich [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u172	as requested in the case of the demographic fund [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u173	Mr. Reich, I have to interrupt you here. This is not a procedural proposal. This is a controversy with Mr. Pogačnik's replica. If you do not have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure, please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u174	Then I ask him to explain to me that I was not present at the debate, and I did not mention to my colleague Pogačnik why he recognized himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u175	That's a second. This is a procedural proposal, but I have noticed in Mr Pogačnik's replica that he was somehow explaining his position, which he had previously represented in his debate. But it's true that all the replicas are a little wider than they should be. But since we did not limit Mrs Sukič's replicas before, let's say, for example, I did not limit Mr Pogačnik's replica either. So much for an explanation. Now let's get on with it. Mr Joseph Lenart has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A nice welcome to the Ministry guests present. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a law on the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the market, transport safety and consumers and a law on the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the financial markets. For several years, economists have been alerting the growing state apparatus and numerous public agencies of the Republic of Slovenia and wondering where else this could be if the number of these agencies and workers in these agencies were to increase, it is said, public servants, until when will the economy be able to successfully cover all those who are fueled by the Slovenian state budget. I therefore believe that effective review of the operation and effective and quality control is needed. The draft law therefore provides for the merger of seven agencies into the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the market, transport safety and consumers and the merger of ATVP and AZN, the Agency for Insurance Control into the public financial markets agency of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where the draft legislative text was drafted, the Secretary of State explained to us a little today where the advantages of everything proposed are. Among the arguments for the restructuring of the structure of public regulators are debirokratisation, search for synergies, rationalisation, processes for pursuing the objective of lean public administration, we repeat rationalisation, a single information system. Among the improvements, I certainly also think there is greater transparency, uniformity in setting objectives, a desire for greater efficiency and easier supervision that is needed. So today's revelations of the opposition that this government wants to be subordinated to some agencies, to put some directors, that's all for the hair. It is always a great joy for those who have been determined to keep everything the way it has been so far, to be said on the line of least resistance. The changes are undesirable and whatever they are, then let us see that this country is as effective as possible. But everything has not been in order so far. Why not? Experiences in agencies from the past that there were also some staff in them that might have been superfluous elsewhere, and then there were some acquaintances and some non-experts of the profession, sometimes there was a perceived lack of results due to the difficulty of the job. And then the results are bad. People don't have much of that if agency results are bad if there's no real control. If I touch another informal visit before I was a Member of Parliament in Ljubljana. I come to one state institution, which is under the control of the CAA, the Civil Aviation Agency, and my friend had a break, and we're going for coffee. Then this coffee gets a little loose, we've had a lot to talk about, we drink, and I say, when we go home, listen, when we got here around 11:00, we've been here for an hour, all the people here are sitting around us, and most of them aren't moving anywhere, and most of them were here before we got here. He says, yes, you know, that's right, Ljubljana has a lot of these agency employees. Some come for coffee, and then they don't go back at all. But the problem is, in fact, no one has any control over whether they're here or not, no one misses them because they've come to this agency somehow. That's how I think everything wasn't in the best order, and everything wasn't so bad. From this point of view, let us then ask ourselves whether we want the agencies to serve our citizens effectively. Now it is obvious that everything is going in a negative direction and in a direction of backwardness and also of security, which is certainly not true. The next bad experience was, for example, an irregular market with cryptocurrency. As a result, many Slovenians, many citizens, were under the pretext of trading cryptocurrency. There was some pyramid scheme going on because there was no real control, and people were pissed off. I think there are things that agencies don't control. If I tell you where she was then, I don't know, the ATVP or consumer protection when they pulled these people into suspicious businesses and grabbed their money. Then there's one more thing. Where were the ATVP and Banka Slovenije at the time when they took the money from small shareholders. Some borrowed shares of New Credit Bank Maribor and then lost them. People even said that at the time, it was a public place under the control of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Where was the Bank of Slovenia then? Why didn't she protect these people? Next. There were loans in francs. Even then, they kind of led these people to take credit, because they were told if you took it in francs, you'd have a little more. Yeah, where was the Bank of Slovenia then to protect these people? Once again, effective control of the financial market is needed. It's not all good, not today. Not because of some subjugation, but because of greater efficiency, solutions are being sought. The bill can still be amended, so I believe it will be worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Černigoj has the following word, and then as Mr Boštjan Koražija's last-declared debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u178	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I have followed with great interest the entire debate today in this esteemed assembly. I am very interested in the area, especially because I wanted to hear all the suggestions, discussions on how the bill could be improved. I admit, the area is wide and requires a wide range of knowledge. How wrong I was! I am a young Member myself, and sometimes I may even be naive, but I believe in a better tomorrow, a policy for people. Today's debate, the debate on vaccination, the debate on gross capital from abroad, even the establishment of regions, do not fall under today's debate. I am disappointed at the rhetoric of colleagues and colleagues, the insult of persons, even in this case of a minister who is not at all in the Chamber and who has no connection with this item of the agenda, is little said unacceptable, sad, no argument, harsh insults, here, I think perhaps the word of footsteps, do not belong to this prized hall. I would like these same people to be more respectful and, above all, to attend a bonton school. Today's arguments remind me of a high school where we have considered that at the end of some debates in ancient times, discussions have always ended, perhaps now I will quote, “except that I demand that Carthage be destroyed”. During the debate itself throughout the day, we did not hear the exact arguments on the SAB page, why the proposal is not good, but merely the mucking of others, dealing with other parties instead of using time to fully present our own arguments. In the debate, Nova Slovenija was chosen as a target because we took over the Ministry of Infrastructure from under the Sab tactic and started proactively to work better for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. I personally believe that today's proposal has several positive effects, the time for discussion is enough, we do not rush into this law, and the law has come up with consideration last year. Today we have a first hearing, and in this time, the proposed proposal can be further improved together. Economic changes in the market require swift decisions and changes, which may mean survival or a flood of an economic business. It saddens me that, on the other hand, some in this esteemed assembly see improvements in public administration only in the spread. Citizens and citizens oppose it, they have enough. Here too there must sometimes be changes, reorganisations and try to change the status quo. We have tried to preserve the status quo too often in politics recently, and we know that such an action, such a policy task, does not lead to development, does not lead to a better future. Finally, I would say that I am very disappointed in today's debate. I wish that discussions on this subject would improve on all topics. On this subject, I will also conclude, citizens and citizens support a lean public administration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The last debater is Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u180	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to start with the previous debater, Mr Chernigo, when he's talking about a slim public administration. Look, to be honest, the public administration has become quite thin in recent years. I can confirm this by myself, or a number of people who work in public administration. Talking about thin public administration is currently, I'll say, very distasteful, even in these times of coronavirus. But when it comes to the coronavirus itself, it is also essentially a problem that we are constantly experiencing here in the National Assembly. Instead of doing daily work here in the National Assembly with the problem that is currently the biggest, how to fight and get rid of this truly evil virus, at the same time, how to keep as many jobs as possible and how to protect workers and workers so that they can protect their families. I do not know in Europe, but please, if someone corrects me, if anyone knows the case, I do not know the current country in Europe, which would systematically change the country as well as the democratic system it currently rules in Slovenia. I must admit, on many occasions someone calls me from abroad and we are talking, and in fact, not only are they appalled, they are actually a little confused about what happened to this Slovenia, which has gone west, towards the north in terms of development and these human rights. Now, all of a sudden, we are falling for these different comparisons with other countries, which have actually started with us during this independent period, as in 1990 Slovenia. With these super-agencies, I think that basically the problem is also what former colleague Natasha has explained that not all of these professional stakeholders have been invited, that the agencies are, in fact, directly to the debate or that they are also given the opportunity to make their views known. Now I don't know, I could also be denied by Mr Zajc of the Ministry of the Economy, whether there were really any more serious negotiations or even negotiations with these agencies, or if everyone just suddenly agreed and said, "Yeah, great, we're going to these two super-agencies." What I was talking about, I don't think it was like that. In these agencies, however, we need to be very careful because these are the agencies that regulate a particular market or what they are essentially dealing with. And all agencies will suddenly push into one super agency will actually not only cause confusion, but also the problem of regulation or market surveillance of certain systems. Mr Pogačnik will be able to say this very well because I know that he is very well acquainted with these systems. I think this is the biggest problem with regulation and control. I am afraid that certain agencies will be or have already been determined, which I think should not be together in some serious super-agency just because of regulation and because of control itself. However, we are constantly discussing what is the problem of the current composition of the National Assembly or of the content that we are discussing and about which we are distributing here in the National Assembly. We're talking about everything else, just what's most important right now, not. This is really difficult for people to see or listen to, as they need to be understood, because they are burdened or also challenged by everything else, how to survive, how to stay healthy, how to be vaccinated, how to protect the family, and then you come up with such suggestions as we are then discussing or discussing here, and giving different opinions, and people want the solutions to the current problems of time we are experiencing. Personally, I am totally against these super-agencies because of this regulation and control, and if we want to have some serious systems or schemes that will control them, from the market of securities, the energy market, even in the light of this green agreement, which is also a lot of debate or even a lot of debate in the National Assembly, and also in the light of this national plan that we discussed yesterday, for recovery, I think this would be the worst option right now, which could happen to set up these two super-agencies. I will vote against it, and we will vote against it in Levica anyway. I think it would be time for here in the National Assembly to show a rebellious or stately attitude to start really dealing with what is most important. These systemic solutions or changes are left behind after we infect the Coronavirus, and we really start to make sure that people have something to put in the pot and what to eat and that they can also take care of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Montenegro, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u182	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would only replicate to my predecessor, who mentioned me at the beginning of his discussion and I think he mentioned me wrong, but mainly he misapplyed to the data. I concluded with the thought: “Citizens and citizens support a lean public administration”. My predecessor disagrees with that, and I think he misunderstood me here. If we go to see only two articles from the media. If I had a little more time, I'd get more information. 13. 2. 2018, we see the address – In two years 10 000 more employees in the public sector. The following address of the article of 14. 9. 2020 – Last year 3 000 420 public servants more, public sector spending is also increasing this year when we are in crisis. All I wanted to do was explain to citizens and citizens how accurate these numbers were and where I was misunderstood. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will also be given the floor by the representative of the Government. Secretary of State, Mr. Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Perhaps a few answers to the questions raised in the debate itself. If the law gets the green light today, I will be more detailed, from article to article, on the committee itself. For the start, it may be necessary to know that the law does not touch the content of the matter. All sectoral legislation remains the same and the sector-specific competences of individual departments remain the same as they are. This part doesn't change. Only the organisational structure is regulated. The law does not have a specific seat of these two agencies, which will then be determined in the founding act itself, so that at the moment I cannot give an answer from the law where these two agencies will be established, but in this first part they certainly remain where they are. It was obvious that there would be more saints because of this change. Of course it doesn't. The number of councillors is decreasing from 37 to 7, as far as the market agency, transport safety and consumers are concerned, and to 5 in the second. Mr. Prebil pointed out that the substantive government, or ministry, would be involved. This was pointed out on the basis of Article 5(5), which states that, irrespective of the second paragraph of this Article in the field of electronic communications, the Government and the Ministry responsible for electronic communications, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the market, transport safety and consumers may provide strategic guidance in areas where this is consistent with the law governing electronic communications. Here I would just like to point out that this already exists in the legislation, so this is not something new, the content of this law does not interfere with anything. As regards the members of the administration and their expertise, it has also been highlighted how they will decide, say, on aviation. The law clearly provides that those members of the administration who do not cover this area should not be involved in the substantive or decision-making process and that a member of the administration should be an expert in this field. Only the number of employees, including supervisors, is not decreasing, but is being transferred to these two agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u185	Thank you very much. That's what we've exhausted the list with. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask, do you wish to discuss it further on the basis of Article 71? I see that it is an interest, so I will only read the warning that if one of the government's representatives wants to discuss it, please also apply to the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. Now we're gonna start the list. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first is given the word, Mr Andrej Chernigoj, to prepare Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u186	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I think today's debate has led to quite a few conclusions. However, I wish that in the future the debates would be more focused on improving a proposal for a law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič The noble has the next word to prepare the mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I think today we've heard a lot of words about et contra and the simplest thing is that we're going to have an opportunity to table amendments. Today we listened, today we also accepted various documents, examined, something was smart, something was strange, something was deliberately directed. But I think a few questions were raised here. Six agencies merge into one another and two agencies together again. I, too, think that a lot of these agencies are the question if they fit together. However, we also expect the Ministry to clarify these matters further. I think we're going to be dealing intensively with this issue, because at least three things are where we think we need to think a little bit more about it. This is certainly a matter of civil aviation, where consideration will have to be given. Then it's also a question of how is it with the professional staff. Professional staff, I hope it stays. But I think there's going to be some bureaucratic spheres that need to be clipped. If we're going to join these agencies, then we need every agency to have their own accounting, and I don't know what it is, but we can get it all under one hat. And here's the point of debirocratization. Business optimisation is one of the most important issues. Once again, I won't say much, it's pointless to repeat what has already been said. But I'm saying that the opportunity to make amendments is now open.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all again! I'd like to sort of confuse today's debate with one resume. We still do not know the real reason or suppose that there was no real reason for us to see why these agencies are merging in the first place. When we think about it and look at why the government just wants to unite them, it is that it politically subordinates them to take control of corporate governance, to subject itself to control and influence. Here we can draw parallels from the demographic fund when the government wanted to transfer all state property to the demographic fund and then through one company could manage it, dictate it, manage it in this sense and also politically exercise its interests. What are these political interests, we know. I think that these political interests are not in Slovenia's best interests to subjugate the economy in this way to politics. That seems just as bad to me. I reiterate that we have not heard one single reason why these agencies should be joined together. We have heard that there will be no eight minimum wage accountants, there will be no eight minimum wage secretaries, there will be no eight different postage documentarial systems. See, documentation systems could be harmonised by the state administration right now and it would be the same everywhere. This can't be an important reason, these are deceptions. Obviously, the only reason is the political subjugation of the Slovenian economy and the creation of a legal basis for any government to influence the decisions of the economy beyond economic interests but beyond political interests. I don't think that's right. We must limit the impact of policy on the economy. And in the same way as the government does when it sent this bill to the National Assembly, and in doing so, it stated one among the 27 members of the European Union that is not in our district, which is not our main partner, these are very fragile arguments. These are very fragile arguments to find one country in northern Europe and say, this is now our economic model, although we mostly trade with Austria, Germany, Italy, France. We are also trading with the Netherlands, but to take one model from a country that is a refugee in the European Union, and to say that this is good for us when they have a different culture there in this sense, I don't think it's wise or wrong. It shows everything but that it works for the good of the economy, but these are measures that enable independent policy agencies to be subordinated to politics. Even when someone says that these agencies are not effective when I think about the Energy Agency in Maribor and the Agency for Public Railways, which are doing well, someone is now telling them, and now we need to rationalize you, and they don't even say why they need to be rationalized and where they work badly. Undefined solutions lie in undefined problems. Today we have a few hours of debate over this. However, we will certainly not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The last debater is Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members! I listened to a few hours of debate today, and this one was interesting as well. Of course, in the opposition, you absolutely oppose any proposal made by the government or supported by the coalition. Whatever it takes is, of course, an immediate opposition here. I don't know why you're afraid of any changes. Don't be afraid of change. Change is necessary. It's a living organism. It has to change. It doesn't have to be cemented, cemented. These arguments that the government is subjugating and so on. Governments are changing. If something is good for Slovenia, if it is good for the economy, if it is cheaper, if it is more transparent, why not make such a change? If you're going to something between people, you'll probably hear why so much red tape is needed, why so many agencies are needed and so many departments are needed. People see it for themselves. There's almost no one left, there's no telling where to turn, where to go, there's so many of these agencies. And it's right to finally move something to bring it together, to make it less. This is certainly what people understand and also very much support. I have hardly heard of a man who would not be in favour of making any change in this area and that these agencies also unite. When I listened earlier to the debate by Ambassador Bratuška when she mentioned in her discussion that the Agency for Transport Safety is in Maribor. Given that the Minister of Infrastructure was even the Prime Minister, I could at least know that the Transport Safety Agency is in Ljubljana. Then we know if the ministers or the Prime Minister doesn't know where the agency is or what it is, how people will know all this. As for these gruesome debates, particularly on the part of the Left, in particular by Ambassador Sukičeva, whom I understand of course. Its debates are more or less always one and the same, only to adapt slightly. Look, if you look at your client, if I make one of these comparisons, you've come together from many, many customers, and now you're a big strong customer. This means that it is effective that merger was effective. I don't know why we wouldn't take this model back to the agency reunion to make them more effective. I certainly support this, but in particular I support it because this change, including some tectonic shift that this government or this coalition has already made in many areas, so that we can finally move a little further forward so that in Slovenia life will be better, cheaper, more beautiful, I will certainly be very happy to support it. I believe that this government will make many good proposals and send them to Parliament, where we will be happy to discuss them, looking for reasons why something is wrong. But this proposal, once again, is excellent and, given that the people, the whole of Slovenia, support it, that we step in with the developed world, I will support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u193	Thank you very much. That was the last debater today. Before we are finished, Mrs Sukič has a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u194	The President, I ask you to warn the Member not to abuse this time-sharing in the way that it has now been afforded, because I no longer have a replica and I do not need to be confused about how we have been united, because we have been united through a broad debate and a long-term debate, which has been going on over regulators. Please warn him to stop manipulating the public and abuse my name in his manipulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Sukich. There are really no replicas in time-sharing, but anyone can apply to the debate. However, in the debate of Members, I cannot interfere and it is understandable that Mr Doblekar can rely on any debate that has taken place during the day. So I don't see any reason for a warning here. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, in the context of the 15-minute vote, at 20 hours and 5 minutes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 71st extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we shall continue, as I said at 8:00 and 5 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.48 p.m. and resumed at 20.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u196	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order: 1, 2. Items 3 and 4 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree and since the amendments to the final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u197	Thank you very much. In Levica we will vote against, I have a common explanation for both decrees, against both decrees, because they reveal in fact the very unfair governance of the government with public finances, unresponsibly, irresponsiblely and without any meaning. On the one hand, the government promises to buy €780 million of weapons in the coming years, that pensions will grow 2 to 3 per cent per year, that there will be another 2 billion investments in health care, that there will be another 600 million for nursing homes and that it will give the richest, the people who have over 6,000 gross wages, or those who pay a large number of properties, a tax reduction on the income they receive from rents. That'll cost us all the rice, write about 5 billion. At the same time, however, we read in these decrees that the government, at the same time, is supposed to reduce the country's deficit, namely, from the current level you have increased by 800 million, to close to 4 billion this year, it is expected to be taken to a third of this amount within three years. This means that this document is not worth the paper on which it is written because it is completely unworthy and will probably be taken as seriously as you have taken the decree that we have amended for 2021 for the fourth time today. But we changed it because you found out you were up to 22. 3. have already spent as much money as was foreseen for half a year of deficit and it was necessary to amend the decree. The other thing that is clear from this is, as the minister himself said today, that money for weapons will be and is also expected inside, but all the rest are empty promises. 2 to 3% pension growth will not happen because the next year there is a projected cut in the pension allowance of €230 million. Investments in health and DSO will not be available because, as the Minister said, there will be a need to take into account reality. All that will happen, and I believe that you will do it, is that you will make the same mistake again as you did in the first Janša government between 2004 and 2008, and that is that you will build us a billion-dollar tax hole that the next governments will have to face in one way or another. But you don't care what comes after you. Like you said, behind us a flood. We will vote against such policies in Levica and against such documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-23-SDZ8-Izredna-71.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 39. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 39.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 39. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 39.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of COVID-19 in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 23 July. 4. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 3. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financial Markets. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the market, transport and consumer safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 71st extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
