ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jerca Korče until 10.30, Matjaž Han, Franz Kramar and Soniboj Knezak until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak a few words on the international day of the Holocaust victims' memory before the meeting. On 1 November 2005, 60 years after the fall of the Nazi regime and the end of World War II, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution declaring it an international Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January. It's a date with a great symbolism. On this day in 1945, members of the four infantry divisions of the Red Army liberated Auschwitz, the infamous and largest Nazi concentration camp still known as the symbol of evil and Nazi horrors, with the killing of a million and a half people, including more than 230 thousand children. The Second World War, which left behind total desolation and millions of cruelly wiped out human lives, will remain in history, especially because of the experience of the Holocaust, one of the darkest crimes in the history of modern civilization. The Nazi regime has denied the right to life to all those whom it has branded inferior. First of all, the Jews were Roma and Slavs, including Slovenians, mentally and physically injured, members of various religious sects, political prisoners, homosexuals, and all those who did not fit the Nazi concept of the pure Aryan race. An issue of concern is how such a tragedy could have occurred. Hannah Arendt, a German-Jewish philosopher, said: “The greatest evil in history, and especially the Holocaust, was not caused by fanatics and sociopaths, but by ordinary people who accepted the premise of their country and acted on the assumption that their actions were normal.” We must be aware that despite the terrible experience of World War II, the causes that have led to this tragedy are still not merely a matter of the past. Nationalisms, national myths, racial and religious discrimination, sharing between us and them, have not yet ended up at the dump of history. Even today, some are wearing ominous symbols of this dark time and regime. In the last decade, new forms of intolerance, racism, xenophobia, hostility have been on the surface. In the face of the current epidemic, however, it is particularly disturbing to see an increase in discontent, impatience, uncertainty that we are witnessing from day to day, and that only inspires and strengthens dangerous negative feelings. Maintaining the memory of the victims and the horrors of World War II, of unimaginable suffering, pain and sorrow is not easy. But it is our responsibility that this memory, due to the increasing time distance and the passing of generations, does not fade to keep it as a warning and a reminder. Despite the promises and commitments made, mankind has repeatedly proved that history is not convincing enough. Although the Holocaust is a belief that it was a unique extreme and unique event, the Rwandan and Serbian experiences of genocide, which have occurred in the eyes of the international community and even on the threshold of Europe, speak differently. Life goes on. With optimism, we are encouraged by the fact that young generations are not poisoned by trauma and the hatred of previous generations. It is right that they live a full, normal life without the shadows of the past, for this means that they have won the hope. Dear Simon Wiesenthal, the greatest hunter of Nazi criminals, once said: “Every hope lives as long as people remember.” We remember today. In memory of all the victims of this dark period of our history, I ask Members and Members for a minute of silence. / minute silence/ We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. At its 19th extraordinary meeting on 23 December 2020, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Tonage Tax Act be re-elected before the announcement. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Branko Tomažić to explain the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! At its extraordinary meeting on 23 December 2020, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a veto on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act and adopted a request for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. The bill deals with minimum amendments to the bill, which was not adopted by the National Assembly after the postponement veto of the State Council at the beginning of 2020. Resolutions on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia are implemented not only on the basis of the provisions of the tonnage law, but mainly by the maritime activity represented by the activities of the port, shipowners and school activities. The Act, in its current form, granting State aid to the ship manager while at the same time abolishing the requirement for the employment of seafarers of trainees and shipowners, by argument of poor economic conditions, allows non-compliance with the requirements for fleet renewal, does not comply with the 1991 Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia. As early as 20007, a foreign buyer promised Slovenian shipowners the return of ships under the Slovenian flag and made purchase conditional on the adoption of the Tonnage Act, and then, within 14 days of taking over the General Sailing with the sale of their two ten-year-old ships to a Slovenian shipowner, returned all paid purchases. Later, he took the remaining fleet of 25 ships. In explaining the bill, there is no indication of how much the tax will fall from the profits of legal persons over the next ten years. The law does not have built-in adequate safeguards, conditions are being created under which state aid will be granted to companies other than the owners of any ship under the new scheme. Two debtors, who have received more than €23 million of state aid in the past decade, are still tax debtors. To these same persons, the proposed law now allows them to receive an additional 35 million State aid within ten years while avoiding payment of the tax liability. The law in the proposed form also lacks built-in appropriate safeguards in a manner such as in the case of the Public Procurement Act. According to the latter, facilities wishing to participate in contracts must attach a declaration of tax liability, which should be properly regulated for the recipients of State aid and all related persons in this law, but unfortunately not. The sixth point of the Commission report on training seafarers provides that shipowners are entitled to state aid if seafarers on board ships have the possibility of education and training. The proposed alternative regime means that the proposal is contrary to the Commission's report. The above could mean that State aid could be assessed as unlawful. By adopting the law, the Republic of Slovenia will finally lose its shipowner, which will have irreparable consequences for Slovenian shipping and maritime affairs, maritime school, maritime administration, port, navy, maritime police and the entire coastal region. The head of the maritime school, Piran Borut Butina, sent us a letter to all, quoting the last paragraph: "With the law adopted, Slovenian Members systematically abolish the completion of formal education for young seamen and thereby renounce the status of the maritime state in the near future and in return enable hidden owners of companies in the tax havens to solve financial and other problems at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. In our opinion, the law is harmful." That's what Borut Butin says. Let me add it as information. In January 2014, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia asked a question about the revision of the general navigation business in the last ten years – no reply has been received to this day. If I repeat, the same law, which has been reintroduced after one year, is mockery from the legislative branch of government. The proposed law, which does not bring any benefit to Slovenia's multimillion-dollar state aid or gives State aid to entities that do not have legal obligations to the country, is a unique example in Slovenian financial legislation. It abolishes education for young seamen, enables the taxpayer to transfer activities to new companies, allows non-compliance with fleet renewal requirements, grants aid to entities not owned or owned by a ship, does not follow the Resolution on Maritime Guidance adopted in 1991. With the adoption of the law, the Republic of Slovenia will lose its shipowner definitively. In the State Council, we wondered whether it was systemic corruption or customerism. Is it possible that lobbying is controlled by financial resources? Dear Members and Members, we urge you not to adopt the Tonage Act and stop corruption, only to maintain the education of cadets and to say that we are a maritime state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 53rd emergency meeting on 13 January 2021, the State Council requested the National Assembly to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted by the National Assembly at its 53rd extraordinary meeting on 17 December of the previous year. The Committee was provided with the following material: a request from the National Council for Redecision, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and a letter from Sirob. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Minister of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented the key arguments in the written opinion. The Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of 10 votes in favour, with three votes against: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first is Marko Bandelli, who will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u6	Dear President, fellow Members, distinguished Members! The law governing the special tax scheme for shipowners is again decided on by the Council of State veto. The European Union has recognised the importance of maritime transport for members years ago. The maritime economy is a sector that is able to move the company's headquarters in a more tax-friendly environment within a short period of time. With a view to maintaining European maritime transport and its competitiveness, it adopted guidelines already in 2004 on State aid, which allow for more favourable taxation of shipowners. Members transposing the tonnage tax into national law must respect the guidelines laid down by the European Commission. Otherwise, the tax levied constitutes unlawful State aid. As a major amendment to the novel, we consider the tax base relating to the definition of the number of business days. After a new period of 12 months and no longer the number of days of actual operation of the ship shall be considered as operating days. The law after a new separation of income and main and auxiliary activities. Access to the tonnage tax system also allows ship managers to provide them with technical management and management of the crew. The novela that we are deciding today is almost identical to the one prepared by the previous government, on which the European Commission of Slovenia approved the tonnage tax system for the next 10 years. The fact is that Slovenia was obliged to fulfil its commitment by 1 January 2019 at the latest, but has not done so until today. The reason for the almost two-year delay is the opposition from the then opposition SDS and New Slovenia, which will now be confirmed by this same law. This work of parliamentary parties in the SAB is assessed as unstate-efficient, irresponsible and harmful. In December 2019, we warned in the SAB that without the adoption of the novel Slovenia will not have the same tax environment as other maritime countries. This risks the loss of the maritime economy. We are aware that, despite the favourable geostrategic position, our country does not exploit its potential and that our maritime economy will not only be saved by the tonnage tax scheme. The sea also needs modern infrastructure, which is why in the SAB we strongly advocate the early implementation of key infrastructure projects such as the second Divača-Koper track and the third development axis. But history repeats itself, the current government faces us with a combination of harmful moves for the Slovenian economy, as it continues to create new obstacles that prevent the implementation of the second track project. The goal of Alenka Bratušek, the former Minister of Infrastructure, is moving further and further away as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible. The Council of State based the veto on the same arguments as in the veto it filed against the law in the previous year. As a matter of fact, the problem is that operators like to be tax debtors and should not be allowed to benefit from the tonnage tax as such. We are aware of the problems in the SAB, but we believe that recovery of unpaid tax obligations is the responsibility and obligation of the tax administration, from which such recovery is expected. In the SAB, we are working towards the existence and development of the Slovenian maritime sector, so we will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act is necessary for confirmation of the extension of State aid for a new ten-year period. Such an extension is in favour of maintaining the status of Slovenia as a maritime state. The tax on tonnage is, in fact, an alternative form of determining the tax base for paying corporate tax. Legal persons operating on ships in international navigation may choose whether to pay a flat-rate tax under the State aid scheme of the tonnage tax in relation to the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship or to pay a tax on the income of legal persons based on the determination of the tax revenue and expenditure in accordance with accounting standards. Other European Union countries also use state aid in the form of tonnage tax. There is therefore less tax revenue in the budgets compared to corporate income tax, and these countries are pursuing the objective of promoting and developing maritime transport. Rejection of the law would mean that the law will remain in force, which will not be in line with the acquis of the European Union or the State aid guidelines. However, State aid which does not comply with such a legal order must be recovered. The rejection of the law would therefore result in the loss of taxpayers or shipowners in Slovenia, which would have negative consequences for Luka Koper and a smaller possibility for the employment of our seafarers and additional difficulties in organising their education in Slovenia. One of the priorities of the Tonage Tax Act is to enable the employment of seafarers from Slovenia, where previously planned and set targets have not been met. Therefore, the conditions for entry into the tonnage tax system are supplemented for taxable persons operating a ship for a shipowner, provided that the activity of ship management is carried out from the Republic of Slovenia and that 51 per cent of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of nationals of another EU Member State are employed for the purposes of carrying out activities on land or ships. Countries also promote such employment through other elements of tax policy, such as reducing contributions and income. At the same time, it should be stressed that tax policy is only part of the policies that govern this area. In Slovenia, for example, there is a provision in Article 42 of the Income Act, which provides that the taxable base of the income achieved by the debtor in connection with the operation of a long-term vessel operating on the high seas shall be determined if, under the contract of employment, he is on board for at least six months or is absent from Slovenia for at least six months in a tax year, in such a case only 50 per cent of the income is included in the tax base. The outstanding tax liabilities of the debtors liable for the tonnage tax are within the competence and responsibility of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This one has to recover them without exception. The adoption of the law will provide a legal framework that can allow for the maintenance of the operations of existing ships in Slovenia, as well as possible new attracting business entities from this activity. In the Desus Group, as before, we will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u10	Good day to all in the hall! We have before us a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. In 2004, the European Commission adopted certain guidelines for marine litter in order to ensure competitiveness in the European maritime sector. In addition to competitiveness, these measures are, of course, intended to help improve maritime transport standards, create new jobs and, of course, help to improve the environment. The guidelines are intended to maintain the unity of the internal European market and even prevent competition between members of the European Union. In short, the very beautiful words of the European Union, which, as has been shown many times, are more empty words, especially not in the interest of the Slovenians. All this competitiveness and development of the European maritime sector will, as usual, relate to the larger European countries, which have huge fleets in the ports of the North Sea. The Tonage Tax Act sets out the different revenues from international shipping operations, which in fact comes in this alternative form of taxation to the term much more in large foreign ships. Slovenia, as always, has not been in the mind of the European Union, even though all these beautiful words are supposed to apply to it. Of course, the paper sounds perfect: we will reduce taxes, increase competitiveness, increase exports and economic growth and so on. Really, but to whom? By giant private corporations from abroad! Slovenian worker, who is living through hard work in Luka Koper, will certainly not feel this. The largest European shipowners have only more income than the entire Slovenian economy, and it is therefore misleading to expect that tax exemptions are intended for anyone other than the bank accounts of foreign mega-corporations. Unfortunately, our company Lucia Shipping has had a foreign owner’s seat for some time now, and of course it is not in Portorož, but in the tax haven on the Marshall Islands, and we Slovenians will, of course, be helping further. This European guideline will be felt by owners of foreign corporations who will be even more recharged with tax exemptions, while Slovenian maritime competitiveness will certainly know this for the benefit of Slovenian workers. Slovenia has an excellent geostrategic location with its point in Luka Koper. It is a completely logistical window into the world for export from Central Europe, which provides a starting point for the route across the Suez Canal to Asian markets. For Slovenia as a maritime country, shipping is extremely important, but these European guidelines will certainly not help. If the law actually helped improve the competitiveness of companies in Slovenian ownership and consequently Slovenian employees, they would support me because this is about the interests of private pockets, especially those from abroad, and in the Slovenian National Party we absolutely oppose such proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Today, at the request of the Council of State, we are again deciding on the proposal for a Tonage Tax Act. This is a specific form of taxation of maritime carriers, which replaces the corporate income tax in this sector. The regulation that we have known so far has given carriers a simplified form of taxation in exchange for maintaining the activities of the number or tonnage of ships and for training new seafarers. Such a form of taxation, which is intended to promote and maintain maritime activities, constitutes a form of State aid, must therefore be in accordance with European rules and must also be notified and approved by the European Commission. It is for the sake of State aid that the Tax Act should be renewed and the deadline for this was two years ago. It was already necessary to face the fact that the Slovenian shipbuilding company was sold during the first Janšev government in 2007 to a foreign private company which used the subsequent economic crisis mainly to sell the fleet of ships and reduce the number of seafarers. This would, under the applicable rules, constitute payment of the additional tax, as they have not fulfilled their part of the public benefit which would make them eligible for State aid. Attempts to reverse the law and thereby allow lower taxes on shipowners without public benefit go back to the previous term of office of the National Assembly. At that time, the ruling party has demanded the prosecution of those who dared to draft such a law, but today, when the power ratios have changed, we are still deciding for the last time on the text of a law that would once again give a few 10 million Euros of State aid to the private without requiring the maintenance of the activity, the number of ships or the number of seafarers employed. Consistency warnings from the Council of State that such a state will be harmed for the public benefit of such a law and that a private company will receive an unjustified advantage and a reward for irresponsible conduct, and today the rulings are no longer interested. Their support for the law today will therefore prove that they are willing to put the interests of irresponsible capitalists before the interests of people and the state. We cannot support the implementation of this law in the Group of Social Democrats for all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! For the second time, the Council of State has voted the procrastination veto for this type of amendment to the Tonage Act and has brought it back to Parliament for re-decision. Although this version differs in some important details from that of last year, the objectives, purpose and key solutions remain the same. The essence of this novelty is to align the tonnage tax regime with the decision of the European Commission extending the State aid scheme for maritime transport for the new decade from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028. However, if this law is adopted, the amendments will apply to the calculation of the tax for the tax period starting on 1 January 2021, i.e. this year. However, if this law is not adopted, Slovenia will be the only maritime country in the European Union that will not apply such schemes or tonnage taxes. This would result in the loss of our maritime industry's important competitive capabilities. The current shipowners will no longer be interested in the management of ships in Slovenia and in the registration of these ships under the domestic flag, and foreign ships will not even be allowed to enter the Slovenian flag. In addition, this law also encourages the employment of Slovenian seafarers on these ships. As a result, this means preserving jobs and maritime knowledge. We have had quite a few concerns in the SMC in considering the previous novel, but after further clarifications we also supported the law in re-decision last year, but unfortunately it did not receive the required majority. However, some of our early warnings are still valid today. In particular, it is a delay in the timely implementation of the approved scheme, since the law or tax on tonnage without an approved European scheme makes no sense. Even more so, without this legal implementation due to possible illegal state aid, even possible European Union financial sanctions threaten the country. In the SMC last year, we also pointed out the need to maintain the maritime profession, that the law must not aggravate the situation and conditions for practical training of students and students and the possibility of later employment of future seafarers. Article 14 of this novel provides a satisfactory compromise solution and Article 15 provides for the validity and application of the Law on Tax Accounts from 1 January this year, which means that multi-annual retroactivity is no longer at issue. However, it is right to point out once again here the problem of tax control over the implementation of the law and the fact that the tonnage tax scheme is applied by two taxpayers, tax debtors. We are aware of these issues, but we note that these are two separate matters. This law merely regulates the specific tonnage tax and the related scheme approved by the EU. The calculation, the assessment and recovery of the tax shall be subject to each individual tax procedure. Of course, we expect the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to be able to recover these tax obligations effectively; this amendment of the law has no effect whatsoever. That is why in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we are inclined to reconfirm this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! Again, there is the government novel of the Tonage Tax Act, which is intended to allow for the further development of Slovenian shipowners. I'm supposed to. In fact, it is a novelty which will allow for additional tax exemptions for foreign corporations registered in tax havens and which have been on Furs's list of taxpayers for years. Slovenia already adopted the Tonage Tax Act 2008 which introduced tax exemptions for maritime transport operators. Shipowners can thus apply an alternative way of calculating the profit tax, pay the tax in a flat rate much lower than the official rate of profit tax, which was then 25 per cent and today 19 per cent. It is supposed to be a subsidy for the expansion and development of shipbuilding in Slovenia, but in fact it is a tax gift for Puerto Rican General Navigation. Since Janševa was privatised by the other government, it has been a German private company, and two subsidiaries of Genshiping Corporation and Lucija Shipping have thus been included in the tonnage tax scheme; the latter is registered in Liberia and the Marshall Islands. Above all, it is a practice to subsidise foreign private capital flowing into tax havens. As a result of the tonnage tax scheme, Slovenia lost EUR 24 million in budgetary revenue between 2008 and 2018. As early as 2017, Cerar’s government tried to write off a tax liability of EUR 6.4 million, which was worth around EUR 8 billion, to a German shipowner. At that time, the amendment to the Tonage Tax Act was finally dropped due to opposition from the Left. He was also against the SDS. The new novelty, which would allow the continued use of tax aid until 2028 in the General Navigation of the shipowner Peter Döhl, was also attempted in December 2019 by the Sharčev government. The National Assembly adopted the amendment in December 2019 and then, following the Council of State in January 2020, the amendment fell in the re-vote. The novels were also voted against by the then opposition party NSI and SDS, which today, a year later in the role of government parties, support and defend this identical text. The coalition parties SDS and NSI are also the most embossed in this parliamentary phase in the same part of the policy, which, in order to protect the interests of foreign capital, is willing to turn around shamelessly, even though this means swallowing up their own promises, even though this means failing their own principles, failing their own voters. In Levica, we opposed this kind of politically motivated destruction of Slovenian shipping and political hygiene at the time and today we oppose it. An additional reason for the opposition: The novel General non-tax-paying voyages on Furs' list of taxpayers are Genshipping Corporation and Lucija Shipping, making it possible to make additional use of tax aid from the tonnage tax system by operating through related companies. And then, according to the new state aid, there will also be companies that are not the owners of any ship. In addition, the amendment allows the taxpayer to transfer activities to new companies without prior settlement of tax liabilities. So, one big tax reward for those who don't pay taxes at all. As also pointed out by the Association for the Conservation of Slovenian Shipbuilding and the Development of Slovenian Maritime, the government of the foreign private owner, who sold out the Slovenian fleet and put the Slovenian shipowner among the taxpayers, is awarding this novel for the destruction of the Slovenian shipbuilding. Therefore, in Levica, we will once again oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the Government, respected state councilwoman, respected colleagues and colleagues! Those who embarrass us on social networks and here on this pay phone have already said our position. The problem is you're more than 90 percent wrong. We remain in our position as we have in the past. We greatly appreciate the correct report and the argument drawn up by the State Council. We ourselves have examined the matter once again, obtained additional information and here, due to ferple, especially to the Slovenian public, I say that we cannot support the Tonage Act this time in re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law of the sea in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government – the representative of the Government – I apologize – Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are necessary in order to fully transpose Directive 2017-2109/EU on the registration of persons travelling by passenger ships flying to or from ports of the Member States of the Community into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Most of the provisions of the Directive have already been transposed by the Regulation on the Registration of Persons on Passenger Ships and the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Formality of Reporting in Maritime Transport. This amendment transposes the provisions of the Directive which are legal matter relating to the collection, communication and storage of personal data. Thus, Article 65 of the Maritime Code amends which personal data are communicated and collected and not stored longer than is necessary for the purposes of finding a solution and remedying the consequences of a maritime accident. In no case shall it be longer than the completed journey and not longer than 60 days after the ship has sailed. In some cases, data may be stored until the investigation or judicial proceedings have been completed. The data storage system shall be designed to erase data automatically and without undue delay. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and other competent authorities for the search and rescue at sea have direct access to personal data and can only process them for the purpose of searching and rescue. The reasons for the delay in the transposition of the Directive are because these provisions were originally planned as part of the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, which also contained other amendments and additions, which require wider inter-sectoral coordination due to their substantive nature. Moreover, these other amendments do not concern all content that could be adopted in the short term. Following receipt of the European Commission's official reminder of the incomplete transposition of the Directive, it was decided that the necessary amendments should be regulated in a law to a limited extent, which should be adopted in a reduced procedure. The Act also contains a provision implementing Regulation 2017-352/EU establishing a framework for the performance of port services and common rules on port financial transparency by establishing the authorities responsible for the implementation and sanctioning of the infringement. The law contains some minor amendments and harmonisation of the law with other laws and editorial corrections. I would point out the harmonisation of the provisions on the exemption of charges for vessels arriving at the port for reasons of force majeure. For the Court of Auditors finds that the Maritime Code in Articles 53 and 54 does not provide for exemption from payment as wide as provided for in the concessional act applicable to the port of Cyprus. The said non-compliance shall be eliminated by involving vessels which enter the port because of the storm and other circumstances of force majeure, but only for the time of force majeure. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for supporting the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law dealt with the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as its parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 24th session. 1. 2021 As a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of the Sea submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, stressed that amendments and additions to the Maritime Law are necessary in order to fully transpose the EU Directive on the Registration of Persons Traveling by Passenger Ships into the Slovenian legal order. The amendment to Article 65 thus lays down which personal data are communicated and collected and shall not be stored longer than necessary for the purposes of searching and rescue and the elimination of the consequences of a maritime accident, and in no case shall such data be stored longer than the completed journey and not longer than 60 days after the ship has sailed. In some cases, the data may be stored until the investigation or judicial proceedings have been completed. The data storage system shall be designed to erase data automatically and without undue delay. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and other competent authorities for the search and rescue at sea shall have direct access to personal data and may only process them for the purpose of searching and rescue. Among the key solutions, he also highlighted amendments to the provisions on the suspension of payment of fees, which also open up some of the inconsistencies identified in the Court of Auditors' winter report. For the Court of Auditors finds that the Code of the Sea does not provide for the suspension of payment from port charges in Articles 53 and 54 of both broad and concessional acts for the port of Cyprus. The said non-compliance shall be eliminated by including vessels which flow into the port due to storms or other circumstances, by force majeure, but, however, by force majeure. In its written opinion on the proposal for a law, the legislature had no comments. The draft law was also addressed and supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In its substantive debate, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 3 and 9 of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and then, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! After consideration on the home working body, we are still considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Code of the Sea after a reduced procedure. It is a matter of amendments whose key objective is to fully transpose Directive 2017-2019/EU in relation to the collection, communication and storage of personal data of all persons travelling by passenger ships. The deadline for the transposition of that Directive into the Slovenian legal order has already expired and it is therefore clear that the early adoption of the law is necessary. Article 65 of the Act amends which personal data are communicated and collected. Data shall not be stored for any longer than is necessary for the purposes of searching and rescue and recovery of consequences in the event of a maritime accident, and in no case shall such data be stored longer than the completed journey and not longer than 60 days after the ship has sailed. In some cases, the data may be stored until the investigation or judicial proceedings have been completed. Later, the data shall be deleted automatically and without undue delay. It is understandable that the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and other competent authorities for the search and rescue at sea have direct access to personal data. They're only being processed for the purpose of search and rescue. Since we know that personal data is sensitive in the modern world, we welcome greater regulation in this area. In addition to complying with the European acquis, the proposal also contains minor amendments and additions to the provisions on the exemption of fees and the definition of port infrastructure for the elimination of non-compliance identified by the Court of Auditors in the October 2018 audit report on the efficiency of port infrastructure management in the area of freight transport. The Court of Auditors concluded that the Code of the Sea does not provide for exemption from port charges in Articles 53 and 54 as wide as the concessional act for the port of Cyprus. There is a need to harmonise the law with the concessional act. Non-compliance shall be addressed in such a way that the Maritime Code also covers vessels which enter the port because of the storm and other circumstances of the force majeure. In the Desus Group of the said alignment with the European acquis and the elimination of the non-compliance found by the Court of Auditors, we welcome and unanimously support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u26	Hello, everyone! In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to point out that our country, the Republic of Slovenia, has always been a maritime state, since under the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the biggest ports in the then Slovenian territory have been both economic and military. Admirals of the Slovenian family carried out their duties in the largest naval forces, from the United States Navy, the Royal Navy to the Yugoslav Navy. Slovenian citizens and citizens today are not aware enough that we are a maritime country, a nation. After all, our port of Koper is Switzerland, Austria, Hungary and the rest of Central Europe. We also propose to the Ministry that when several amendments are planned and the Marine Code is complemented by a longer-term process, it should also include the so-called blue-yellow-blue flag. Slovenia also received an official reminder from the European Commission at that time due to the irregular transposition of the EU regulation into the Slovenian legal order. Let us bear in mind that the legal regime of maritime transport must explicitly follow the development of maritime technology, as well as the informationisation of processes. This is how the complete transposition of the European Directive is primarily regulated by the reduced procedure so far. It follows the essential objective where they are collected, communicated and stored personal data of persons travelling by passenger ships. There are many editorial corrections throughout the text, but they do not have any substantive weight. With regard to safety, it is also important to train seafarers to cover or cover certain minimum levels of education. It is also appropriate to allow, within the framework of an outbreak of covid-19, the administrative or competent authority of the port to manoeuvre in ensuring flexibility in the collection of port infrastructure charges. The term to be discussed is also a passenger who is every person on board a ship or a boat, except children less than one year old, persons employed on a ship of any kind. We do not like the fact that a child under one year of age is not considered a passenger, since the latter is still an important article, the weakest article when it comes to protection, rescue, assistance in various accidents, storms and other circumstances of higher power. The ferry ticket for such small children is, logically, not paid. It would also be relevant, as in the Slovenian National Party, to point out several times that, in addition to other data, data on nationality is collected, as nationality is still important today, although some people care about this information. The deadline for the data collected to be stored in the national single window until the safe end of the ship's journey, or no later than 60 days after the ship's departure from the port, seems a little too long. We think the 30-day arm would be long enough. Secondly, it is a case of an accident that the data collected are kept until the end of the investigation or judicial proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Applicants shall propose amendments and additions to the Maritime Code in order to fully transpose the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Registration Directive for persons travelling by or from passenger ships arriving in or from ports of the Member States of the Community and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on reporting formalities for ships arriving or departing from ports of the Member States and whose deadline has expired on 21 December 2019. The amendment to Article 65 thus lays down which personal data are communicated and collected and shall not be stored longer than is necessary for the purpose of searching and solving the consequences of a maritime accident. In no case shall this data be stored longer than the final journey and not longer than 60 days after the ship has sailed. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and other competent authorities for the search and rescue at sea have direct access to personal data and can only process them for the purpose of searching and rescue. Amendments to the provisions on the exemption of fees also eliminate some of the non-compliances found in the audit report by the Court of Auditors, namely that the Code of the Sea does not provide for exemption from port charges in Articles 53 and 54 as wide as the concessional act for the port of Cyprus. The said non-compliance shall be eliminated by involving vessels which enter the port because of the storm and other circumstances of force majeure, but only for that time. In addition, in order to comply with the Space Regulation Act, it is laid down that port infrastructure intended for public transport, as a port infrastructure not intended for public transport, is an economic public infrastructure as defined by the Space Regulation Act. In the Maritime Code itself, minor editorial corrections are also made. Since the proposal of the Maritime Code is in line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and with the legal order of the European Union, and since the applicants assess that the adoption of the law has no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and other public funds, this proposal is also supported by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, we will support amendments to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! It will take 20 years for Slovenia to settle maritime law issues with the Law of the Sea, including the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia at sea. Most of the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code to date have been necessary in order to comply with European Union legislation and international legislation. The legal regime of maritime transport must follow developments in maritime technology and process information. In international law and European Union law, new legal acts are constantly adopted to amend or supplement existing legal acts to comply with the Maritime Code. This is also the case with the implementation of the directive, which deals with ways of collecting, storing, reporting personal data on persons, passengers of passenger ships being transmitted to the master of the ship and to the national single maritime transport window, for the purposes of searching and rescue at sea in the event of maritime accidents. Given that a number of different authorities or institutions may participate in the search and rescue of passengers in the event of maritime accidents, they may access and process personal data, but only for the purpose of searching and resolution. The content of the valid Maritime Code has not so far been consistent with the content of the concession contract for the port of Cyprus, namely the part where exemptions are provided for the payment of port charges. In accordance with the applicable legislation of port charges, no vessel spitting at the port for the purpose of rescue of shipwreckers shall be paid in the event of death or illness or of the provision of medical assistance to persons on board and the novelty of the law between exceptions including cases of force majeure, a storm for the duration of those events. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will, of course, support these changes of the law, which are more or less technical in nature, but we will look forward to a more radical intervention in the Code of the Sea, as announced by the Government. The time coming will have an important impact on the maritime character of Slovenia. Croatia and Italy are expected to announce an exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic Sea on 1 February this year. What does that mean for Slovenia? A series of very difficult questions are opening up. For example, should Croatia and Slovenia first agree on how to implement the arbitration decision and then extend its sovereign rights at sea? Will Slovenia be deprived of the right to access the open sea? Will Slovenian fishermen be deprived of the possibility of fishing in the open sea and, not least, the open sea may be no more? These are strategic issues and a great responsibility on all of us, especially on the decision-makers of the executive branch, is that in negotiations with neighbouring countries they achieve the best results for Slovenia as well as for the maritime state.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The amendments to the Maritime Code that we are considering today are necessary because of the full transposition of the European Directive, which introduced certain changes in the area of registration of persons travelling by passenger ships and in the area of reporting for ships arriving or departing from ports of the Member States of the European Union in November 2017. Amendments to the law relate to the collection, transmission and storage of personal data. While most of the Directive has already been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Regulation on Registration of Persons on Passenger Ships and by the Regulation on Formalities of Maritime Traffic Definitions. However, it is necessary to amend the law because the provisions of the Directive, which are transposed into the Slovenian legal order, constitute legal matter. In addition to the provisions transposing the Directive, the proposal for a law removes the inconsistencies found by the Court of Auditors in October 2018. According to the Court of Auditors, there is a discrepancy between the sectoral law and the concession act for the port of Cyprus, which provides for a wider payment of the port charges than laid down in the Maritime Act. The proposed amendments provide for a clearer definition of which vessels do not pay port charges, and also for the allocation of port infrastructure to those intended for public transport and to those which are not. However, the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups further regulate the implementation of the European Regulation establishing a framework for the delivery of port services and common rules on port financial transparency. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A key objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code is the complete transposition of the European Directive 2017 relating to the collection, communication and storage of personal data of persons travelling by passenger ships. The deadline for the transposition of that Regulation into the Slovenian legal order has already expired 21. 12. 2019 and that is why Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission. From this point of view, it is therefore necessary to adopt the law as soon as possible. In accordance with the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and with a view to eliminating non-compliance with the concessional act, it is also provided in this proposal for the law that port charges are not also paid by vessels arriving at the port due to a storm or other circumstances of force majeure. The draft law also introduces provisions concerning the conduct of personal data of passengers to be communicated by a passenger ship coming from the port of the Republic of Slovenia or to the port of Slovenia. In this regard, the proposal also sets out which personal data are transmitted, communicated, collected and not stored longer than is necessary for the purposes of searching and rescue, and for the elimination of the consequences of a maritime accident. For all of this, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u36	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are primarily necessary in order to adapt national legislation to European law. This is a complete transposition of the Directive with regard to the collection, release and storage of personal data of persons travelling by passenger ships. This also follows the principle of the protection of personal data. It is determined which information is to be communicated and collected and which period of storage is to be determined. The storage system must be designed in accordance with the Directive by automatically deleting the data without undue delay. The proposal also sets out the authorities which have access to personal data and may only process them for the purposes of searching and rescue in the event of maritime accidents. The proposal also refers to the inconsistencies identified by the Court of Auditors in the audit report. According to the Court of Auditors, the Maritime Code does not provide for the exemption of port charges sufficiently wide as already provided for in the Port of Koper concessional act. The law shall be coordinated in such a way as to cover vessels which enter ports due to storms or other circumstances of force majeure. The Court of Auditors further concluded in its audit report that the Maritime Code does not comply with the concessional act of the port of Luke Koper at the point which defines the port infrastructure on the one intended for public transport and the one not intended for public transport. Article 3 of the proposal eliminates the finding of non-compliance. The maritime code is governed by fundamental international legal relations in the Slovenian sea and therefore constitutes an important part of the Slovenian national legal order. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to supplement the proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENTAL LAW, IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The New Kindergarten Law brings three sets of solutions, additions and innovations. Let me just summarize them for a moment. The first set relates to the distinction between pre-school education activities and child protection activities and other services intended for pre-school children, but their primary purpose is not to protect pre-school children, but we are talking about animation, the organisation of birthday parties and so on. This has so far not been clearly demarcated and clearly defined. And it is in this connection that we also re-enact measures to prohibit the exercise of pre-school education and the protection of children in a way that prohibits natural and legal persons who are not registered in the register of public-application programmes or in the register of pre-school children's guardians to carry out pre-school education and child protection activities. Therefore, very strict sanctions are now provided for in the case of infringements and prohibitions reflected in the immediate prohibitions on the exercise of an activity. The depth of these violations ranges from EUR 5,000 to EUR 10,000. That's one solution. Another important solution in connection with the current problem that we had before a good year is the construction of the Institute of Preschool Children's Watcher at home. This amendment of the law builds an essential institution for the guardian of preschool children at home with solutions that lay down rules for the replacement of absent guardians for both shorter and longer absences. The Ombudsman must have a noticeable decision on the entry into the register. The law also lays down the guardian's obligations that the parents of children have written contracts and that they keep records of children who are protected at home. The second set of solutions or additions, and also in some way linked to the ones already presented, are measures to improve the performance of the Slovenian Inspectorate for Education and Sport, which accurately define the key conditions for the conduct of pre-school education and child protection activities and the infringements in this connection. Then there's the third set. The one is the most popular, most positive set of these solutions. It is a novelty, but in some ways it is not new. In fact, the reintroduction of free kindergarten for another child from the same family, who is in kindergarten with an older child, and the introduction of free kindergarten for a third and further child from the same family, unconditionally. The first part of such action is already familiar. It lasted until 2012, when the economic crisis led to the adoption of the Zujf decree, and thus, until then, parents paid 30% for the second child, and the remainder of the 70 per cent of the budget was covered by the State by the decision of the Centre for Social Work. A third child in the same family who was in kindergarten with an elder was already free. The new law will now extend the right to free kindergarten to families with three or more children so that the third and every further child is entitled to free kindergarten, whether or not any other child is in kindergarten. So, these are key key solutions, and at the same time innovations in this amendment to the Kindergarten Act, for which we are very grateful that you Members have already been very united and unanimously supported by them in the course of the preliminary examination. At the same time, I would also like to point out that you have made an important opening, which is the need to discuss and then to finalize the current private kindergarten funding system. We have heard a great deal, including on the Government's side, this call, and I am already predicting that we have joined the creation of a special working group that will draw up one coordinated proposal for solutions for all involved, and we can then proceed with a new novelty and debate on this content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u40	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 14th regular meeting on 13 January and at its continuation on 14 January 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Kindergarten submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 84th regular meeting on 6 November 2020, the College of Presidents adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has made some comments to it. However, in its opinion on Article 12, the representative said that they had made a comment on the constitutional nature of the entry into the premises of the guardian of preschool children. It considered that the content of the Inspector’s powers should be clearly recorded in order to avoid the entry into force of the Ombudsman’s constitutionally protected spatial privacy. The comment was taken into account in the coalition's amendments, as was the majority of others, and the Ministry's explanations were given for the rest, and the Council of State also gave its opinion, which supported the bill. The draft law was introduced by a representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. There was a debate in which members and members of the committee welcomed the bill. They considered preschool children to be the most vulnerable group in our society and an important social value that needs to be properly regulated. As a result, they welcomed the change that obliges the preschool guardian at home to comply with the Kindergarten Act in his work. Due to certain shortcomings in the regulation of the status of the Ombudsman, the amendment gives additional powers to school inspectors to supervise the implementation of the law in the home of preschool children. Members and members of the committee also welcomed the reintroduction of free kindergarten for another child from the same family who are involved in kindergarten at the same time, and additionally this right will extend to families with three or four children, so that their kindergarten is free of charge regardless of whether the children are in kindergarten at the same time or older children are already in school. In Slovenia, they considered that there was a declining trend in birth rates, so different measures in the area of family policy must be taken. A number of those invited to the meeting also gave their views and views. There was also much discussion about the competence of municipalities to establish and finance private kindergartens. Some discussers felt that the latter’s right to co-financing should be linked to the congregation’s prior consent to establish it, so that the local community could decide on its own whether or not to need an additional kindergarten in the light of the public network and the needs of parents. In view of the fact that Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act, which regulates the financing of private kindergartens, was not subject to the regulation of the novel, it was not possible to make amendments to it, as the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, SMC and NSI to new Articles 2a and 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 respectively. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u42	Mr. President-in-Office, Madam Secretary-General. Have a nice hello to you all again! The new law that we are considering today brings important innovations and solutions that will address the shortcomings of the current regime. The pre-school period is very important for children's development, particularly with regard to emotional development and socialisation. Social competences that can be developed until entry into school also have a major impact on the child's later school performance. The spin also has a positive impact on children coming from a cultural and social or socially disadvantaged environment. In the SNS Group, we therefore support the introduction of free kindergarten for another child who attends kindergarten at the same time as an older relative and for any further child from the same family whether or not he is still a relative of the kindergarten. This aims to increase the proportion of children involved in kindergartens, as the financial burden on parents would be greatly reduced. We doubt, however, that the solution to free kindergarten will affect the higher number of births in Slovenia. To achieve this, a number of measures are needed in various areas. In our parliamentary group we also welcome the regulation of the status of the guardian of preschool children at home. The arrangements of the Ombudsman's institution are necessary, as no one wants the cases that we know from practice to repeat. This isn't just about the Kangaroo case. This is a series of similar violations and practices that can have serious consequences on children who are most vulnerable. On the other hand, we have doubts in the SNS about the appropriateness of the solution governing the replacement of the Ombudsman's absence. The person who replaces the guardian must only fulfil the condition that he is not punished for crimes against sexual inviolability or for offences committed under official responsibility. It is just working with the most vulnerable or vulnerable group of children, so we feel that conditions need to be stepped up at least a little bit. An important novelty, which we welcome in the SNS, is the addition of Article 24a, which provides that the premises which the Ombudsman provides for the protection of children at the time the protection takes place are not regarded as dwellings. For now the guardians of preschool children could invoke the constitutional right to inviolability of housing and thus prevent inspection. The novel also gives additional powers to inspectors so that, without prior notice at the time of child protection, they can enter the guardian's premises and exercise control in accordance with the powers they have. Amendments to the law are therefore necessary, as the current arrangements need to be eliminated as soon as possible, thus preventing any abuse to the detriment of children. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! A new Kindergarten Act reintroduces a free kindergarten for another child, which is included in kindergarten with the elderly, and also for the third, regardless of this condition. Parents who have two or more children in kindergarten are thus exempt from payment for younger children. The global financial crisis in 2009 also affected Slovenia, which, like other countries, had to deplete public funds and in 2012 suspended the provision on free kindergarten for the second and subsequent children included in kindergarten at the same time as the elder established in 2008 in the Government led by the current Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. Despite the fact that Slovenia 2014 was excavated from the recession and recorded at the outset 0.8%, and then increased growth every year, there was no 80.4% of the political will to return the measure until today. Since 2008 the measure has brought a great deal of involvement of children in kindergartens, while increasing fertility in Slovenia, which has greatly improved the demographic picture. The measure required municipalities to strictly comply with a ten-year-old legal provision, which provides in Article 10, where there is no kindergarten in the municipality of permanent residence of parents, which does not have public service or kindergartens, and parents express an interest in including kindergartens of so many children in order to form one department in accordance with standards and regulations, the local community is obliged to start the procedure within 30 days at the latest to provide additional requests for places in public kindergarten or to sign a concession. Sadly, not all the congregations were able to do so for a variety of reasons. Due to the risk that the Court of Auditors has also pointed out that the State leaves an excessive number of children to the grey market, which is not subject to any conditions at all, the 2008 Amendment of the Kindergarten Act has also brought the so-called Institute of the Preschool Children's Ombudsman at home, which has allowed natural persons to join the register of preschool children's guardians at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In spite of the rapid opportunities offered by the legislation, it allows private individuals to establish a private kindergarten or pre-school education as private educators or the protection of children, and in this area a number of child-protection providers have appeared to avoid registration procedures in which they should demonstrate compliance with the prescribed conditions for the guardian of pre-school children at home. They thus leave unfair competition to those operators that have provided all the conditions. And there are risky situations for children, so the novels ahead of us to prevent such behaviours contain appropriate measures to enable inspectors to act immediately in the event of infringements. The Novevo lays down the prohibition on the exercise of pre-school education and protection activities by all legal and natural persons who are not registered in the register of public service providers or in the register of pre-school children’s guardians of the Ministry responsible for pre-school education. However, it excludes natural and legal persons who provide only services. intended for pre-school children if they are carried out in such a way that their purpose is not to protect pre-school children. The law therefore provides a safe environment for the youngest and noticeably improves the financial situation of young families and indirectly creates conditions for greater fertility, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Madam Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! We support the novelties of the Law on Kindergarten in the Letter of Marjan Šarc, because in practice there have been some shortcomings regarding the inadequacy or ambiguity of the new institute, which was brought up by the last amendment in that law in 2017. It is the so-called Institute of Preschool Children's Watcher, which has slightly interfered with the protection of children in the grey market. It is difficult to build up the above-mentioned institute of the Ombudsman in order to identify higher and new fines for offences, in terms of education, space, additional assistance, replacement of the Ombudsman, better records and data storage, and most importantly, more effective supervision of child protection is established. In addition, the novel reintroduces free kindergarten for another child in the family and extends the right to free kindergarten to other families, at least three children. For this reason, of course, we support the novel in the List of Marjan Šarc. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that when the proposal is being considered, and we cannot agree with this, the fact that provisions have been excluded from the bill, which would have led to the new regulation of greater autonomy of municipalities in the establishment and financing of private kindergartens. Let me remind you that the initial proposal of the Kindergarten Act was prepared last year under the government of Marjana Sarca, which, after many years of efforts by the municipalities to achieve greater autonomy and more rational use of public funds, also contained this change. The municipalities are those who are the founders of kindergartens and the main funding of preschool education activities. The Law obliges the municipality to provide a sufficient number of vacant places in public schools, while also committing it to the financing of private kindergartens. As the problem of urban shortages, with the exception of individual environments, has been resolved in recent years, the community in public kindergarten has had enough free places, while at the same time it has to finance the inclusion of a child in private kindergartens. In the Marjan Šarca Group, we advocate that there is a separation between private and public kindergartens, and we have also signed an amendment to the current proposal of the Law on kindergartens at the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, which will allow for greater autonomy of municipalities in financing private kindergartens. We wanted to bind the right to co-financing of private kindergartens to a prior agreement on its establishment by the congregation. As the chairman of the committee refused to vote on our amendment at that meeting, we obstructed the vote on the amendment with part of the opposition. We disagree with the President's action, and we will, as soon as possible, propose a change to the Kindergarten Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u47	Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u48	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, all the others present at the meeting! The new Kindergarten Act, which we are considering today, has already been prepared in the main part under the minister of SD by Dr. Jerne Pikal. We all most likely agree that it is in the interests of all of us, especially our parents, that our children are in a safe, healthy and stimulating learning environment every day, so frightening scenes, such as those of the Kangaroos, should never happen again. Unfortunately, in recent times there have been a large number of child protection providers avoiding registration procedures in which they should demonstrate compliance with the prescribed staffing conditions and the conditions for space and equipment. The proposal therefore introduces provisions explicitly prohibiting the conduct of pre-school and child-care activities to legal and natural persons who are not enrolled in the development of public service providers or in the register of pre-school children's guardians. These violations are also subject to strict sanctions, with immediate prohibition of carrying out activities and fines between EUR 5 and EUR 10 000. Increasing research shows that the involvement of children in kindergartens is of great advantage. The high quality of education and the protection of young children is thus the basis for successful lifelong learning, social inclusion and personal development. Access to kindergartens is therefore crucial and free kindergarten is also one of the points of the Social Democrats, so, of course, we support free kindergarten for another child, as this will make it financially burdensome for the parents. The proposal for a new law also provides solutions to enable inspectors to function more effectively in practice, lays down the highest standard for the number of children in the combined department, complementing the provisions of the Ombudsman of preschool children at home. These are the changes proposed by the perpetrators of this law, so we will also support them in the Group of Social Democrats. However, I would like to point out, with respect and respect, that, as it is said, most of the solutions have been summarized in accordance with a proposal already made by the previous government or Minister Jernej Pikalo, but one key issue has been omitted for unknown reasons, namely, the autonomy of the municipalities in financing private kindergartens in the event that there are enough cities in public kindergartens. This was pointed out by a number of municipalities or municipalities of the Association of Municipalities, the Community of Municipal municipalities and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. She warned the profession that this was incomprehensible and illogical. We, too, as the opposition, have tabled an amendment on a committee which, unfortunately for unknown reasons, was withdrawn or not voted on at all. Of course, in the opposition, we strongly condemn and support the municipalities that if they have jurisdiction to finance kindergartens, it is right that they can also decide whether to finance private kindergartens if there are enough places in public kindergartens or in concessionaries. Thus, together with the entire democratic opposition, the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc, in the shortest possible time, we will most likely put in place a new amendment to the kindergarten law, with which we will resolve the matter. In fact, we support the public kindergarten network in Slovenia and we have a very high-quality public kindergarten network and we see no reason for certain private people to undermine this public network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u50	Your Honor! Today, we are discussing the amendment of the Law on Kindergarten, which brings the right to free kindergarten. Once again, the right to free kindergarten will be granted to another child, provided that both children are included in the kindergarten at the same time. At the same time, the right also applies to the third and all further children from the same family. The Law also contains provisions which are important for the more effective functioning of the education inspectors. With this mandate, inspectors may exercise control over the implementation of the law in the home of preschool children’s guardians. This is undoubtedly the right measure to ensure quality protection. In fact, it is a matter of upgrading existing powers so that the inspector can carry out inspections at premises used for the protection of children without a specific court order. On the basis of the new legal provision, inspectors will be able to verify the actual situation in the free zone where this activity is carried out. They will be able to verify compliance with contractual obligations, expertise, hygiene minimums, the appropriateness of space, the number of protected children and methods. The proposed new criminal provision, which lays down sanctions for infringements of the prohibition on the exercise of pre-school education and the protection of children, is also fully relevant for regulating the situation in this area. The Novela also builds up the Ombudsman's Institute with solutions that lay down rules for the replacement of the absent guardian, the obligation to conclude a contract with the parents and to keep records of protected children. In addition to these changes, the amendment provides for the highest standard for the number of children in the combined section. The amendments introduced by the amendment in question give rise to two important aspects. The first refers to the importance of involving a child in kindergarten for their further development. Another important aspect is the provision of a quality and extremely safe environment in which parents place their children in temporary protection. Pre-school education is an extremely important segment of education and education throughout the vertical region. In our discussions so far, with some attempts to amend the Education Act over the last four years, we have always stressed that the Slovenian system of preschool education and protection is among the most quality in the European and global criteria. The involvement of our young people in kindergarten protection from the earliest stages is very important. However, this positive impact is increased prior to entry into primary school. The advantage of education and care during the preschool period is very far-reaching. They show everything from the economic benefits for all society to better achievements in school. Some international research on knowledge even shows that children and adolescents involved in preschool education and care also achieve better results in school. Quality pre-school education is a solid foundation for lifelong learning, which is particularly beneficial for children from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. From this point of view, it seems important that the introduction of free kindergarten for others and further children continue to encourage the fullest possible involvement of children in kindergartens. Recent data show that in Slovenia we are very close to the European strategic objective of at least 95 % of the involvement of four- and five-year-old children in preschool education. In the school year 2019/2020, 94.1 percent of children of this age attended kindergarten, which is six percentage points more than ten years ago. The inclusion of the youngest, so-called children, one and two years old, in kindergarten is also increasing. During the school year 2019/2020, 67.5% of children of this age attended kindergartens. However, by introducing stricter control and effective sanctioning of offenders, we can create conditions to ensure a secure environment for the youngest members of our society. This will prevent open and hidden cases that have occurred to us in the past, so we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to implement effective supervision and stricter sanctions on the work of educators, educators and guardians, whose mission is one of the most important in our society. On the basis of all the above arguments, we will be happy to support the proposal of the law in the Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Levica we advocate all accessible and free preschool education within the public kindergarten system. Pre-school education in Slovenia includes 90 000 children who spend most of the day in kindergartens, so it is essential to ensure quality, professional and technical conditions for the implementation of programmes in public kindergartens. On the quality of professional educational standards, public kindergartens in Slovenia are placed at the top of the list of comparable countries and international research confirms that Slovenian kindergartens perform a very important task. By including children from all social and cultural backgrounds, children have the same basic basis for continuing education. The importance of including as many children as possible in kindergartens and the contact of children with peers is also important in terms of their cognitive and social development. The proposed amendments to the Kindergarten Act are primarily governed by – this amendment – additional protection, which is not a public kindergarten. The Institute of the Ombudsman is a private economic initiative that can only be an emergency until there is enough room in public education for all children in the country. Thus, it is essential that all the forces focus on involving as many children as possible in public kindergartens and to ensure that sufficient places are available in the public kindergarten network. Here the country must take the side of municipalities with appropriate co-financing for the construction of new kindergarten facilities. Especially since she's with 1. 9. 2023 children in kindergarten need to be provided with a larger indoor gaming area and because from the point of view of the equal situation of all children in the country also all preschool children need to be provided with an entry place in public kindergarten. And any increase in public funding for economic activities for private guardians and private kindergartens is a danger that the state will no longer see the need to increase the capacity of kindergartens. If kindergarten capacities are not large enough, more and more parents will be forced to use incomplete private solutions that would result in extremely damaging privatisation of the protection of preschool children. We therefore welcome the greater regulation of the Institute of Preschool Children. The Ombudsman of pre-school children carrying out a profitable economic activity cannot expect that the State will not supervise its business and operations. And the re-implementation of free kindergarten for the other child, as well as for the third child and beyond, is, in our view, too selective to be considered a measure to increase the inclusion of children in kindergartens. Large families in Slovenia are already paying correspondingly lower contributions for children attending kindergartens, and compared to families with one child, the privileged position is practical. Thus, the burden of payment of kindergartens is already placed, allowing decisions to be made for the inclusion of children in kindergartens from all families. It is difficult to say, therefore, that this is a social measure aimed at greater inclusion of children in kindergartens. If we are to achieve this, we should also financially burden the socially weaker families with one child who have been burdened by the encouragement of kindergartens in recent years. In this case, parents with multiple children and high personal income are more favoured. The cost of additional children in kindergarten will be borne by the state budget. Clearly, it is another gift from the conservative government, which thus seeks to reward its and potentially new voters who have many children. At the same time, what is being sold as a social and family policy is nothing more than a naturalistic policy. In Levica, we are critical that the family policy led by Janez Janša is no longer linked to social criteria and the need for families, but is exclusively related to birth. The benefits are thus enjoyed by those who are more giving birth, not by those who face shortages and who would really need help. The correct response to the problem of birthlessness is by no means a change in family policy into a naturalistic one, but a change in social policy and a different attitude towards migration. And what can we do to alleviate the decline of the middle generation by increasing the proportion of elderly people? The working active population in Slovenia can be strengthened numerically in only two ways of regulating migration. First time. In a much more open policy towards migrants and refugees, not with the anti-refugee xenophobia and the hatred that this government is spreading. Another way is to prevent emigration by improving the living conditions of the young generation in Slovenia in particular. This can only be prevented by measures such as higher wages, affordable housing and universal public services for health, education and pre-school education. Therefore, let me repeat once again what will have to be repeated in the future when social criteria are removed from family policy, family policy is turned into a naturalistic one. In this way, the family, one of the most important basic social groups, will be evaluated, as under direct State influence the family will only be reduced to a reproductive institution. And that's what I'd say, Minister Simona Kustec, article 34, has really not been opened in the current amendments to the Kindergarten Act. However, the municipalities and professions have justifiably proposed that it should be amended to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u53	Cigler, time's up. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergarten realizes another of the common commitments of the Coalition Treaty. In Novi Slovenija, we have been working, among other things, through the introduction of the Free Kindergarten Act, to ensure that every time governments and ministers understand that they are accessible, quality and affordable, I can say that free kindergartens are important in family planning and in providing social protection and the status of families and children. At the outset, however, I would like to point out that measures relating to families must be long-term, at least for 10 years, because families need a stable environment. Only in this way will we be able to turn the current worrying demographic picture in Slovenia in a positive direction. And one more thing, measures must not depend on current governments. In New Slovenia, we are aware that family and quality of life are influenced not only by family policies in a narrower sense, but by family policies, which cover different sectors, from the tax system to housing policy, education policy, employment services and other support policies. We have therefore identified in our work three areas that have a decisive impact on parents' decision for children: values, jobs and housing. Families ensure the future of the nation and society, so the country is obliged to support them. The state must constantly wonder whether it supports the family enough. This must become a constant work of the government, which requires first desire and obedience, what we can improve, how we can simplify and how we can help each other and our neighbor. The proposal for a law comes from September 1, 2021, this year's September, free kindergarten for another child from the same family when the children are simultaneously involved in kindergarten. The right also extends to families with 3 or 4 children, so that kindergarten is free of charge for them, regardless of whether the children are in kindergarten at the same time or older children are already in school. Preschool children are the most vulnerable group in our society and an important social value that needs to be adequately protected. This principle is also followed by a change that obliges the preschool guardian at home to comply with the Kindergarten Act in his work. Due to certain shortcomings in the regulation of the Ombudsman's status in practice, the amendment gives additional powers to school inspectors to supervise the implementation of the law in preschool children's guardians at home as well. This should prevent the abuse of children, as we have witnessed in the past. Let me remind you of Kangaroo. As this law implements the multi-annual efforts of Members of New Slovenia after free kindergartens, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The area of pre-school education is an important part of the education policy in Slovenia and includes all types of services that provide the protection and education of children before entering compulsory primary school, regardless of the form, funding, business time and content of programmes. However, there is no doubt about whether the country recognises the area of pre-school education and protection as a public or as a private problem in the formulation of pre-school education policies and the protection of pre-school children in individual countries. In countries where pre-school education is perceived as a private problem for working parents, policies to raise and protect pre-school children are less developed and focused mainly on individual groups of children. On the contrary, countries that have recognised pre-school education as an area of public interest have developed a policy that understands the right to quality pre-school education programmes as a fundamental right. Slovenia undoubtedly belongs to the last group, because the quality of Slovenian kindergartens is exceptional and can be measured with some of the best kindergartens in Europe. The proposal for a novel of the Kindergarten Act, which is before us today, primarily refers to the Institute of Preschool Children at Home and builds it up with solutions that in practice constitute stricter conditions for the performance of child protection activities, which we certainly welcome. The second basis of the government proposal is the reintroduction of free kindergarten for another child, who is at the same time with an elderly child in kindergarten, and the kindergarten for the third child in the same family, who is at the same time in kindergarten with the elderly, is free of charge for parents. The new law, however, extends the right to free kindergarten to families with three or more children, so that every third or further child is entitled to free kindergarten, whether or not any other child is in kindergarten. On this occasion, I draw attention to the issue of spatial distress, taking into account the regulation setting out the standards and minimum technical conditions for kindergarten space and equipment. The State Council also draws attention to this issue. What we miss in the proposal for a law – and we have pointed to this and tried to arrange it already at the meeting of the home committee – is the question of establishing private kindergartens in the case of free capacities in public. As already mentioned in the introduction, we have excellent quality kindergarten programmes in Slovenia, which we have decided will be the dominant form of preschool education in our country. Despite the fact that the State allows the possibility of establishing private kindergartens, which are also financed by 85% of the funds, in the SAB we believe it is right to grant municipalities co-financing programmes in private schools in the case of free public facilities the possibility of giving consent to the financing of private kindergartens. If cities are free in public education, it would be irrational to use municipal funds to establish new private kindergartens. This provision has practically been included in the previous amendment of the Law on kindergartens and has now, look at it, fallen out. We are truly disappointed that despite the calls of the entire profession, the communities and members of the opposition, the ruling coalition has not been able to address this important issue. Therefore, in the KUL coalition, we have drafted a bill that will regulate the establishment of private kindergartens in the way we have proposed, and, as I am aware, the amendment is now being tabled in the legislative process. In the SAB Group, we estimate that the proposal for amendments to the Education Act, which has been harmonised since the previous government, is good and follows the right values. We believe, however, that the proposaler's intentions for a more efficient and safer system of pre-school education will also be realized in practice. Members of the SAB will not object to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Yuri Lep will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, especially a nice greeting! The key novelty offered by the bill is the re-introduction of free kindergarten for another child from the same family who are involved in kindergarten at the same time. The right to free kindergarten has also been extended to families with three or more children, so that kindergartens are unconditionally free of charge, regardless of whether the children are in kindergarten at the same time or older children are already in school. With such solutions, large families want to make the most of their costs. The solution is an incentive to increase the involvement of all children in kindergartens and the exemption will apply with the new school year. In the Desus Group we welcome this move in the light of the positive response to the demographic situation in our country and as a measure to promote fertility, which is why we support it. Furthermore, the novelty responds to two key issues, namely individual disputed practices and serious irregularities in the implementation of the protection of children outside the public protection and upbringing of pre-school children, and to the lack of regulation of the Institute of Pre-school Children. The legislative proposal thus prohibits the exercise of pre-school education and child protection activities by natural and legal persons who are not included in the register of operators of publicly applicable programmes or in the register of pre-school children’s guardians. It further prohibits the exercise of pre-school education and the protection of children and lays down strict sanctions for the violation of this prohibition. It is possible to distinguish between pre-school education activities and child protection activities and other services intended for pre-school children, such as animations, birthday parties and the like, so that their purpose is not to raise and protect children. The law builds the Institute of Preschool Children at home with solutions that lay down rules to replace absent guardians for both shorter and longer absences. The Ombudsman must have a noticeable decision on the entry into the register. The bill provides for the duty of the guardian to have written contracts with the parents of the children, to keep records of children protected at home and to allow the competent inspection service to enter the premises where the activity is carried out, by precisely demarcating the direction to check and, consequently, to sanction them in the event of an infringement. The debate on the parental committee has also been about the establishment and financing of private kindergartens, and unfortunately because of the clear nomotechnic rules of this issue, which solves and underlines the importance of municipal regulation of the financing of these programmes and the principle of protecting the public network of preschool education, which we are also defending in Desus, we have not been able to solve successfully this time. We agree with all the solutions offered in the Desus Group, so we will also support the proposal for a new Kindergarten Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on the Slovenian Press Agency within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mescu.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The Group of 38 Members and Members, signed under the amendment of the Act on the STA, propose a very simple amendment, and this is that the Act on the STA would include reporting in the English language on this central Slovenian media, the central Slovenian press agency also on the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. If you look at the STA Act, you will see that the STA is currently obliged to report both in Slovenian and in English, it is said for the foreign public, on many topics: from politics, economy, education and so on. One of the two exceptions, the first exception is entertainment, and the second exception is voluntary and non-governmental organisations, which is reported only to the domestic public and not to the foreign public. We see no reason why this is so, namely, NGOs and voluntary organisations are an extremely important segment of Slovenian society and numbers speak for themselves here. In Slovenia, there are 244,000 volunteers who spend about 10 million hours a year volunteering. Of these volunteers, there are as many as 155 thousand volunteer firefighters. I think we all have met with them, and we all know what an important role both in the protection of accidents and fires and in the provision of a social life in Slovenia, especially in the countryside, these fire companies have. At the same time, sport societies should be mentioned. In Slovenia there are as many as 3,000 sports companies, in each region of at least 100, it is said that virtually every Slovenian village has a sport society, and it is actively involved with as many as 233,000 people. For sports societies, I think, without any dilemma, we can say that they are the backbone of the sport of this nation, that they care about recreation and after all for health and for some social well-being in all Slovenian places. Then there is the need to mention NGOs. 28 000 of them operate in Slovenia, of which 24 000 companies and about 3 000 600 institutions. These NGOs perform a very important function of protecting the environment, ensuring cultural activities and ultimately providing some educational, entertainment and similar content throughout Slovenia. It is not right for the foreign public not to report on the operation of such a large number of people in Slovenia, perhaps even the most dynamic Slovenian leisure activities and the end of countless hours and the effort these people put into working cultural, sports, environmental, voluntary, firefighting and similar societies. If I mention only one action, which I think is absolutely worthy of Slovenia or the Slovenian public being commended abroad, this is Clean Slovenia, which was one of the most successful actions in Europe and the world. About 14% of the population of Slovenia actively participated and each year contributed to the cleansing of Slovenian rivers, forests, lawns of waste that occurred there during the year. We propose to simply add to the STA Act a provision to report to the STA to the foreign public also on the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. I think I have illustrated the reasons here quite clearly and we hope that this change will be confirmed this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body by the mother, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Violeti Tomić, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Committee on Culture considered the draft law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 48th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly held a general discussion on the proposal for a law and adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. A representative of the proposers, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the State Council and the Director of the STA participated in the meeting of the Committee. In a brief supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicants explained that this was a smaller but very important change in the law, which has the support of different stakeholders, in the time we live in. The proposal foresees that voluntary work and the work of NGOs such as firefighters, Karitas, Red Cross, Association of Youth Friends, Humanitarian Society and so on, which are an essential segment of Slovenian society, is reported by the Slovenian Press Agency in its public service also in English. It is important that, in a time of misinformation and dissemination of so-called false news about the work of non-governmental organisations, a credible institution is reported in a credible manner, informing the international public. The Slovenian Press Agency on the proposal for a law to extend the reporting activities on volunteering and non-governmental organisations in its English Service does not see problems or would thus further improve its work. He explained that the applicants had drawn up two amendments following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Government said that the Government does not support the bill, as it is preparing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Press Agency Act, which will be approved and sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after the adoption of the proposal. The representative of the Council of State said that the Council of State supported the proposal of law, since participatory democracy, which is also part of NGOs, was one of the foundations of the European Union's action. The Director of the STA pointed out that the STA team does not see obstacles when proposing new tasks that would be entered into the law by the proposed amendment, especially because NGOs, when it comes to Slovenian service, are listed in the English service when it comes to public service. In a short discussion, members of the Left, SD, SAB, LMŠ and SMC announced their support for the proposed bill as all the conditions for such an extension of the public service are met. In addition, a proposal was made to allow certain content to be presented in Hungarian and Italian in the future. Reporting in English is also important from the point of view of Slovenian foreign policy, as we can set an example for many other countries in the field of non-governmental and voluntary organisations. The Committee adopted the amendment of the opposition parties Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD to the title of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted both articles of the bill. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Vasco Simoniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members, Members! Several times I and the secretary of state have already said on the same subject in this National Assembly that the government does not support this change of law for a simple reason because the amendment is unnecessary and the law already in force allows the State to inform the public in the English Service about developments at the level of volunteer work and NGOs. STA is expected to report in an editorially independent manner, according to the decision of the editors, given the editorial perception of the importance of the event and, as it is said, this allows for existing legislation. We have also been quite united about this in various discussions in this house. Finally, the Director of the STA in these premises also ensured that volunteers and NGOs were also reported in the English service, without the law being decisive and further specified. In the second paragraph of Article 4 of the existing law, in the context of the public service in the English language, all the usual areas of reporting are mentioned in the media, namely, politics, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science, chronicle and other content, covering all relevant and relevant developments in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we must be aware that STA, as a national agency, is not a global player, and English translations of the events of NGOs will only be difficult to come to the category of global news. Global information flows from the centre to the edge and, of course, large agencies have the main word. However, we can only be happy or happy when we achieve global reverberation with our events, especially our successes. STA, like all other news agencies, acts as a doorman, a gatekeeper, determining which events are to be announced and which events will be published. There is no objectivity, there is no myth, but it can be professionalism and journalistic honesty and impartiality in editorial decisions, which will be given attention to the event in Slovenian and English. The law ensures editorial and journalistic autonomy of the STA. The Ministry of Culture is the one that prepares media legislation for the government and the National Assembly, i.e. also the STA Act, and we cooperate with the STA in a way that we especially buy photos from this agency – I signed a contract, say, yesterday. The Government does not therefore support the bill, as it is also preparing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Press Agency Act, which was already under public scrutiny on 9 July 2020 and 5 September 2020, and will send it to the National Assembly, after coordination with government departments and coalition partners. The amendments and additions proposed by the Government relate to all key areas of the STA Act. What is being achieved by the constant repetition of one and the same article of the law, the applicants of the law have said. What kind of communication-policy axis has been or is emerging from this single amendment, which we are devoting so much time and energy to, of course, may be a question for today's debate of honourable Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 48th extraordinary meeting on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members today. This is how we are going to discuss the article and the amendment tabled. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the members of the Groups of the Left, the LMŠ, the SAB and the SD. Anybody want to talk? I see she's just one of the speakers. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment we tabled in the united opposition will be supported in the LMŠ. Nevertheless, some things need to be said. The English service is a window into the world. And a strong English service, the recognition of Slovenia is actually something that makes us abroad Slovenian, so it is important to be aware of this. This is a reflection of our society. Civil society is, of course, the one who needs to keep an eye on what's going on in our society. Strange things have been happening in our society lately. That is why it is all the more important to be aware and aware of this. The amendment to this Act on STA is a minor change, but this small change is of great importance. In LMŠ we do not want to experience Hungarianism, in quotation marks, of course. In LMŠ, we do not want what happened to their STA to happen to us. There Victor Orbán’s authority first took over the Hungarian press agency and then, of course, adjusted the real content. Of course, what remains of course is what is favored by the government, and the rest is what is tamed by the measure of someone. Then they began to offer the news for free or for very little money. And what happened to that? Yes, the minds began to spread throughout the country because the information was substantial, adapted and only one. We don't want the same thing to happen to the U.S.A. The proposal just discussed by the minister, who is waiting for the coalition to be clearly still in line with it and for it to come to the National Assembly, namely the proposal for a new State Act prepared by the government, also addressed the Supervisory Council. This government wants four of the five supervisors to be directly appointed by the government and to give them a new opportunity or authority to say, namely, that they should be able to relieve the director prematurely so that he can be given no confidence. That's the government's proposal. And then what is different than the introduction of a single mind or dictatorship? Nothing. That is why what the Prime Minister tweeted this week, when the RTV Programme Council appointed the new Director-General, is very convenient. I mean, he started talking about a new broom that was going to sweep. Do you think there's anything else waiting for us? We can only guess whether the scenario that happened to the neighbouring country is being realized with us. I probably don't risk much if I say it's a tendency to discipline, subjugation, pressure on media freedom, journalistic independence and editorial autonomy. That this new model, with this new normality, in the notes, will require commitment, greed and media submission and that a critical thought will be silenced. The next stage of this is that we have trumpets that will sound only one truth. And we don't want that in LMSH. I would only conclude by saying once again what I have said several times in these debates, namely that STA is no national disgrace, as the Prime Minister has told us, that STA is doing its work properly, objectively and professionally. And let's keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Is there still interest in the debate? I see that only Mrs. Violeta Tomic has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We have talked a lot about the Slovenian Press Agency lately, and we always talk a lot when some institution has to be defended. Mostly we in the opposition are trying to defend ourselves. What's going on? What's going on? As we know, the Director of Ukoma, Mr Urbanija, has stopped funding by blackmailing up to some of the data that he was not entitled to, and has lost about 100 employees in the last three months. We observe that whenever the government wants to discipline someone, it removes the basic source of survival. On the other hand, this money goes into some strange business between members and supporters of the government. We even had the opportunity to read how Member Victory Jelinčič very much received €3 million for his electoral unit to support this government. I'm not surprised that you hate NGOs so much, because their money needs to be collected and given to others. But it should be stressed that NGOs are those who do things that the state does not and that they take care of those that the country forgets. This is where we can list from cultural organisations that are particularly important for rural youth, so I am truly surprised that the right hand so enthusiastically supports the withdrawal and attacks on NGOs, firefighters, humanitarian organisations, also Karitas, sports societies from which so many of our top athletes are born, who worldwide bear the good name of our little country. It's all about ideology and money. They always say follow the money and you'll see what's going on. The attacks on STA are constant and, as my colleague mentioned before me, also on the independent public service of RTV, which is now finally managed by the position or coalition with the former President of the Supervisory Board, who has worked so hard to become the Director General of RTV on Monday. I am pleased that the gentleman will finally be able to show how to work because he has criticized so much. Because, you know, someone who's never lived on RTV, who hasn't worked on programs, of course, can spit on others, but we're going to be watching closely and it's going to be very interesting how he's going to be doing very well now. WHAT must, wants, and is also right to inform the public – also in English mainly about NGOs. Why does this government not want the international public to know what is actually going on in Slovenia, but of course it is a question for psychologists. NGOs are the foundation of the European Union, and I don't know how someone wants to be a member of the European Union, but as in the chocolate trade, it's only what he likes that he doesn't. Non-governments wouldn't, not respect for the rule of law, not human rights, not independent media. But I'd have a shipment of money every time. In the Council of Europe, we have recently discussed this subject. Unfortunately, we are no longer traveling because of the known epidemiological situation, but we are so often in contact online, it is via the media or the Internet, and there the Council of Europe emphasises that NGOs are the basis for the European Union's action. He also stressed this in his position at the last meeting of the State Council. Non-governments are at the heart of the European Union's action. Therefore, in Slovenia, which has a great tradition of civil social movements and NGOs, we could be very proud of this and be an example. At least in something. But no, we're hiding it like a snake leg because some NGOs don't like it. Because some people don't like one tree, they're going to cut down the whole forest. What damage they will cause in the long run, we will find out that every government of Janez Janša will be able to drown Slovenia for ten years. How we're going to get rid of this is a big question. STA, the Slovenian Press Agency must remain independent, professional, stablely financed, and the policy involved in its operation is unacceptable. We will try to ensure its independence and fight for it to the end. Not only are the good news that speaks well of me personally, are all the good news that is objective, the media are a mirror of society, and they point to the democracy of a country. Independent media are heavily endangered in Slovenia. It is not enough for some parties to have their own, as the media trumpets are called, but they want to subordinate everything else that is ours, which is public, which is common. And 20%, even if you are, can't afford what everyone else owns if we're talking about a democratic society, but if we don't slip very quickly into a dictatorial regime, an undemocratic regime. And that's a great grief. Let me finish my debate. The independent STA is an important member in the democracy of our country and also an important member for all foreign diplomats who take many data through the independent Slovenian Press Agency. The work would also be greatly facilitated for diplomats in Slovenia if they could also receive news in English. In Levica we will support all these amendments and hope for common sense on the other hand and finally do something good for independent media in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The applicant made a statement. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to comment on the position of the Ministry of Culture, as expressed by Minister of Culture Vasko Simoniti himself. In my introduction, I told you what an important part of Slovenian society, Slovenian public life, is represented by NGOs, voluntary organisations and other organisations. We have 244,000 volunteers who do 10 million hours of volunteer work, we have 3,000 sports companies that include 233,000 people, we have 28 thousand NGOs that care about the environment, about culture, about social events in Slovenia and so on. In short, countless volunteer hours, countless people and enormous effort and energy flow into these organizations. What the Minister of Culture said was why we should not report it in English, but what was next. He went on to say that the STA Act already stipulated that all relevant things, the right policy, economy, science and so on, should be reported in English, making it clear that the work of NGOs is not relevant. And secondly, he said that the flow of information is still from the world center against the periphery, so it doesn't matter what we say or do, we're just passive recipients of information, not someone who could somehow add up outside a few worlds. I cannot accept this comment for a number of reasons. First time. Because it is not relevant, the relationship between the Minister for Culture and voluntary work or NGOs and all non-institutionalised things in Slovenia is essentially apparent. It is, therefore, essential only what is happening in an institutionalised world, all that is happening at some voluntary level, at the level of a civil society, but is worthless to it. I think here, as Lydia said before, as well as Violet, we can smell something like this that's happening in our eastern neighborhood. It begins with such denial of any role of civil society before you try to silence it completely. Another time. I can't accept his comment because he denies in fact any role of STA. He said: “It’s a Slovenian portal, but who reads it.” This is not a Slovenian portal, it is a central Slovenian press agency. Just like the Reuters News Agency. And it is read by the world public at the head of the world media, which, when reported in Slovenia, is likely to first refer to what our press agency reports. We are not talking about some media, we are talking about an official Slovenian press agency. Here again is a dangerous move that the Slovenian government first by reducing the role of this agency then excuses why it can cut off its funds, since there is only one portal that we can take away from it, and therefore there will be no harm. Third time. I cannot agree with this opinion of the Minister, because I also see in him a completely diversified understanding of Slovenia's role in the world. I could say that's a very unholy position. Thus, we are nothing more than a passive recipient of world currents, more than that, not only can we not be, nor can we cultivate any pretensions that we could ever be. As a matter of fact, I see the opposite of that. I think we must strive to be a relevant actor in our neighbourhood, in Europe and in the world. We need to nurture our national media and cultivate our public sphere, and we must first and foremost give recognition to the people who co-create this society. Here we are talking about a few hundred thousand NGOs and volunteers who, on a daily or weekly basis, give up their free time to add something to this society. And the least we can do is admit it to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The government has empty arguments against the amendment of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, saying that the law in force already allows this or that the Government itself will propose a thorough upgrade of the existing law. The first argument excludes the second or vice versa if you wish. The fact is that the law in force does not allow this. In order to make the matter more comprehensive, however, the government is in the classic jargon of each coalition, which in principle opposes any such well-intentioned proposals of the opposition. The proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian Press Agency is also supported by the competent Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said that the State Council also supports this and the amendments follow the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, in my view, all the conditions for the adoption of this law have been met. It is also about reporting on voluntary work and the work of NGOs in the English language, and thus informing the foreign public about this important segment of our society. Let me say from the explanation of the law that 27 000 NGOs were registered in Slovenia on 31 May 2020, of which 24 000 114 companies, 3 000 615 private institutions and 259 institutions. Voluntary work, which is also or is more widespread in Slovenia, has registered as many as 244 thousand 304 volunteers who have done 9 million 3 000 798 hours of volunteer work in 2017, according to a report from the Ministry of Public Administration. That's impressive data. The new law follows this, so the Group of Social Democrats, as we have already said at the plenary session in the first reading, will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Since I see that there is no interest, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, good afternoon! This time, the Proposal for a Amendment to the Act on Companies-1K is transposed in the Slovenian legal order by Directive 2017/828 amending Directive 2007/36 EC as regards the promotion of long-term participation of shareholders, which continues the process of deepening European company law and corporate governance. In the bill we also propose some other substantive changes and corrections that improve the law in force and eliminate inconsistencies and certain shortcomings. We are pursuing five objectives with the bill: aligning Slovenia's legal order with the European legal order; complementing the restrictions on the establishment of companies to entities with unfair business purposes and restrictions on the establishment of foreign natural and legal persons; improving corporate governance in companies; allowing supervisory authorities to control businesses more easily and effectively; and ultimately addressing some inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current law. Allow me to point out the most important solutions to the bill. The directive strengthens the right of the company to find out who its shareholders are and lays down measures to promote a more active role of shareholders in management. With the requirements for greater transparency of institutional investors, asset managers and voting advisers, it is desirable that institutional investors and asset managers cooperate more closely with the companies they invest in and that final investors better optimize their investment decisions. The members of the management and control bodies and the executive directors of public limited companies shall be subject to the mandatory formulation of the remuneration policy and the remuneration report. The scope of the related parties' business is also new. In order to conclude an essential business with a related party, it will be necessary to obtain the approval of the Supervisory Board or of the Management Board in public limited companies. Transactions with members of management and control bodies, executive directors, managers and prosecutors in certain limited liability companies, their family members and transactions with companies or other legal entities controlled or operated by those persons shall be subject to an even stricter regime. The bill also contains other amendments that improve business circles, remove administrative obstacles and strengthen corporate governance. In the future, foreign legal and natural persons will be subject to the same verification of the existence of restrictions on the establishment and transfer of business shares as domestic legal and natural persons. By defining the company’s business address and the obligation to enter the company’s business and e-mail address into the register, it is desirable to improve the supervision of the company’s operations and the functioning of the responsible persons. Measures to increase professionalisation, expertise and independence of internal audit shall be laid down. Further disclosures regarding the gender relationship in the authorities of management and control are intended to contribute to Slovenia's progress in efforts to reduce the spread of the less represented sex in the authorities of management and control of the most important companies. It is also possible to facilitate the communication of management with foreign workers and removes the undertaking's obligation to declare the intention to terminate the business or the intention to transfer the business. Your Honor! We suggest you support the marriage today and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! At its 12th meeting, on 12 January, the Economic Committee considered the draft Law on amendments and additions to the Company Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Amendments by the opposition and the coalition were tabled within the deadline of business. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, explained what the objectives of the law were and presented the proposed solutions in more detail than compliance with the Directive of the European Union and the Regulation of the European Union. He also pointed out that the draft law introduced provisions for greater independence, professionalism and professionality of internal audit in shareholders and complementing the provisions relating to the powers of the Supervisory Council, the establishment of new obligations related to the registration of data in the Court and Business Register, the introduction of verification, the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment or acquisition of the status of a member for natural and legal persons from another Member State or from a third country, the establishment of additional obligations for companies that have become a public interest entity under the Audit Law, the addition of provisions on the entry of diversity policy to large and medium-sized companies that revise annual reports, require them to disclose in the description of the diversity policy the relationship of both sexes in management and control bodies. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service found that most of their comments had been taken into account by amendments to the coalition groups. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally expressed their support for the proposed amendments. The panellists stressed that it is only an urgent implementation of European legislation in the area of long-term participation of shareholders, the prevention of unfair business practices and the policy of directors' remuneration, and highlighted possible challenges in implementing the proposed solutions in practice. It was pointed out that the existing economic system had entered into a crisis from which only a change in its core could be achieved. In doing so, the apparent authority of business owners and the concentration of power in the hands of management were mentioned as problematic and the need to change the system in order to ensure adequate pay and quality of employment and to pursue legal, business, social and moral standards. With regard to the restriction on the establishment of companies and entrepreneurs and the acquisition of the status of a member, individual discussers objected to the completion of the restrictions in the third article, where a crime against human health and the general safety of human beings and property has been added as a reason. This restriction would also constitute discrimination between those who already have the status of an entrepreneur at the time of the crime and those who wish to acquire the status of an entrepreneur at the time of the commission of the crime. Prior to that, the view was also expressed that this is a retaliatory measure for those who do not respect government measures. Individual discussers also drew attention to the dispute in Article 6, which lays down the obligation to keep company business documentation at the company's business address and to which coalition and opposition parliamentary groups have tabled amendments. The debate highlighted the problem of the new Article 11 doctrine which interferes with the definition of public interest entities. It is stipulated that all public undertakings subject to statutory audits will be obliged to appoint an audit committee and that the audit committee will be subject to additional burdens, additional obligations and higher operating costs of public undertakings. It was also pointed out that only basic hygiene regulatory mechanisms were exacerbated by the bill and that the proposal was too ambitious in view of the lack of regulation of coordinated economic policy or economic democracy or the involvement of employees in decision-making and ownership in companies. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments from SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 71 on 3, 6, 14, 15 and adopted amendments from SAB, LMŠ and SD to Articles 6 and 62. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 8, and the proposal for an amendment of the SD Group's Committee to Article 35 was not adopted. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Franz Rosec, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! By means of a proposal for a company law, Directive 217/828 is transposed into the Slovenian legal order, which provides for an amendment or new regulation of four sets of issues concerning shareholders' rights and the promotion of long-term participation of shareholders. Collections requiring appropriate changes and additions to the GDD-1 are: identification of shareholders, transmission of information and facilitation of the exercise of shareholders' rights; policy of directors' remuneration, shareholders' rights and information; transparency and approval of business of companies with related parties; and, last but not least, institutions of transparency of institutional investors, asset managers and voting advisers. At the same time, this proposal also eliminates the irregularities found and other inconsistencies of the current Company Act-1. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič is next to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u80	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The implementation of the so-called Shareholder Directive will, however, bring some partial good solutions in the Company Act, and not the systemic changes that the regulation of shareholders would need. The main objective of the directive is to promote more active and more direct participation of shareholders in company matters, and this should also ensure the long-term stability of these companies. Another essential amendment introduced by the Directive is the right of the company to identify its shareholders. The aim is to increase the transparency of the ownership composition of public shareholders. Both of these changes are, of course, welcome both in terms of transparency and in terms of economy, but the question is whether these changes are sufficient. We must be aware that, in a highly competitive environment and in the fight for the dominance of an economic society, there are also various circuits of fair business practices. It is therefore right that the proposal of the law also provides for restrictions on the establishment of companies for those economic operators carrying out unfair business practices and seeks to prevent them from facilitating companies to achieve objectives that are not entrepreneurship-oriented. In the LMŠ Group, we support the introduction of stricter rules that prevent the establishment of new companies to a business entity or the owner of a company that has acted illegally in the past. We also agree that unfair business practices need to be reversed, but we ask ourselves about the appropriateness of the ban on setting up a company for an individual who will not comply with government orders at the time of the epidemic. The novelty provides that anyone who commits, for example, a crime of transmission of communicable diseases during the time of the declared epidemic may also be prohibited from participating in the Slovenian economic space as a result of the public gathering. Such an increase in the number of criminal offences is disproportionate in our view and, given the nature of the offence, which does not fall within the scope of economic activities, is also inappropriate. On the home working body, we proposed an amendment to delete the provision that all company business documentation should be kept at the company's business address. The provision was inanimate and prevented the retention of documentation both in contractual archives and in accounting services, which are external contractors in at least the majority of small companies. Finally, we are living at a time when progress in digitisation is moving all the way towards paperless operation and electronic storage of documents, which means that electronic documentation management will undoubtedly become more effective and will also allow for the simplification of inspection controls. In view of everything, despite some good changes in the LMŠ Group, we believe that the amendment also contains unacceptable changes, so we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Company Act is a statutory law governing the establishment, operation and operation of companies. It is an extremely complex and broad legal area, and it must also be in line with the rules of the internal market of the European Union. This is, as a rule, the reason for amending the law when it is necessary to bring it into line with the new rules. And this time, too, is the reason for the amendment of the law of compliance with the applicable rules of the European Union, mainly in the field of minority shareholders and creditors. As a proposal, however, the government has made other changes to facilitate control. It therefore suggested that companies should be obliged to keep all business documentation at the company's headquarters, which in practice is totally impractical and constitutes a large deviation from the declared anti-bicratic regime of the current rulings. The law also included, under the influence of the epidemic, a ban on the establishment of businesses for those who had been punished for acts against human health. The law also contains a solution that imposes an obligation on all public undertakings to set up audit commissions, which will in particular increase the cost of doing business for local companies. Unfortunately, such measures are generally reduced to a higher cost of service, which end up being paid by users, i.e. residents and residents of Slovenia. In our consideration of the Social Democrats MEPs and representatives of the opposition, we drew attention to some controversial solutions and proposed amendments. We are pleased that the ruling coalition has renounced at least unreasonable requirements for mandatory storage of business documentation at the company's headquarters. Unfortunately, however, she did not take into account our warnings about audit committees in public companies. The proposal for an amendment to the committee we tabled was rejected. Therefore, Slovenia is becoming a country with one of the broadest definitions of so-called public interest entities, which must establish complex and expensive structures to meet the requirements of the law. We believe that such regulation will have negative consequences mainly on the wallets of residents and residents, while this will not solve the problem of possible abuses of public funds in public enterprises. This is just another bureaucratic measure that will benefit only the lobbying interests of audit houses. The law of this substance cannot therefore be lightly nodded and confirmed. We will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies in the Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. Respectable present. Today's government proposal for the amendment of the Law on Economics puts the provisions of the European Directive on the promotion of long-term participation of shareholders into the Slovenian legal order and regulates the implementation of the Regulation of the European Commission laying down minimum requirements for the implementation of the provisions of the European Directive on the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information and the facilitation of the exercise of rights. This novel also eliminates the shortcomings and inconsistencies identified so far. As a result of the transposition of the European Directive, a proposal for a law lays down some new obligations for companies, such as the duty of the company to provide the shareholders with information to exercise the rights of shareholders through intermediaries in the chain, the obligation to publish essential transactions with related parties, the creation of a remuneration policy and the obligation of the publicity of the remuneration policy and the obligation of institutional investors and asset managers to prepare a cooperation policy and to publish a report on the implementation of the cooperation policy. We believe that these changes are useful because they will have an important impact on improving the information of shareholders and thus help to improve corporate governance of companies. We are confident that greater transparency in determining the remuneration of businessmen will support better working relations and contribute to reducing the risk and costs of conflicts at work. In addition, the amendment makes it impossible for companies to chain to meet non-profit and illegal objectives, improves the protection of minority shareholders and creditors and reduces administrative costs for entrepreneurs. That is why we support the proposal for amendments to the Company Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The additional reason is that the novel will more effectively limit and monitor the establishment of companies and the acquisition of the status of a member by the commercially unfair foreign and domestic natural and legal persons with unacceptable and illegal business practices. Thus, individuals will be excluded from the business environment for a certain period or until the law meets certain circumstances, who have demonstrated by their past conduct that they are not worthy to participate in the Slovenian business environment. As a result, the level of trust in business relations and legal traffic in our country will increase. Among other content additions to the SMC Group, we particularly welcome the provision which requires medium and large companies to disclose the relationship between both genders in the governance and control bodies in the description of diversity policy. In accordance with this provision, the obligations of the undertakings to report on the establishment of policies and to pursue objectives in the field of gender balance in the management and control bodies of companies are specified. We believe that this will encourage the management of companies to take social affairs more into account in their business strategies and that greater transparency in terms of sex, age, education structures at a higher level of decision-making will encourage more diversity at all organisational levels. Finally, a more diverse committee will reflect and pursue the diversity of stakeholders. In doing so, we also agree with the position of the advocate of the principle of equality, which proposes to include in the Company Act a binding mechanism to ensure greater gender balance in the supervisory and management bodies of companies. In the SMC, we are aware of and advocate the introduction of the principle of gender balance in the appointment of public undertakings and other persons of public law and of self-government local communities. We are trying to ensure that the representation of the less represented sex would be at least 40%. This is the announcement of our next step that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, by the end of the term of office, we will be introducing a new law to ensure greater gender balance in the bodies of economic companies. Today's SMC bill is united in its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter is next. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, welcome! We have before us a government novel of the Law on Economic Companies, which we will not oppose in Levica. It brings some positive changes. Shareholders will be able to identify their shareholders in a new way. Shareholders will be able to vote at the Assembly themselves. In addition, share companies will have to make a mandatory remuneration policy for all members of management and control bodies and executive directors. There are also new requirements for identifying shareholders and new liabilities for insurance companies, funds and other asset managers, which will at least make their business more transparent. The establishment of a business address on which the company is located and which is a condition for the company's entry into the business register also increases, at least in part, inspection supervision and makes the establishment of straw companies more difficult. Finally, a somewhat stricter criterion is laid down regarding the impunity and verification of the impunity of individuals in the establishment of societies. Initially, the paper also included the obligation to store and archive business documentation at the company's business address. This would facilitate inspection, since the inspector would be aware of the location of the documentation at any time. However, on the Committee on the Economy with the amendment, the government coalition simply deleted this provision because it is inanimate because it imposes excessive costs on companies related to document feeding and restricts the operation of virtual offices. She thus showed that by tightening the inspection, she was not serious. Inspection allows only as much as it does not affect the private profits of companies. In doing so, the private interest of capital again favours public interest. While the obligation to keep documentation physically at the company's business address is indeed not an optimal solution, deleting this obligation without introducing an alternative solution cannot be the right solution. Instead, the government could introduce a more appropriate, better alternative solution that would take account of virtual offices and limited spatial capacity of small businesses, but did not do so. A warning from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was enough to simply cancel the search for a more appropriate solution to strengthen inspection. The Novela Law on Economic Companies is, unfortunately, just another proof of the degradation of the Ministry of Economy led by Zdravko Počvalšek. The Ministry of Economy was one of the key institutions that purposefully guided domestic economic policy and public enterprises in line with national development priorities decades ago. Today, however, it is reduced to a point for lobbyist contacts with private individuals and for transposing European legal acts, especially for the sharing of subsidies to private capital. The Committee on the Economy was convened on average once a month last year. They only write a new novel or law at the Ministry of the Economy when it is necessary to transpose a European directive or domestic legislation into Slovenian legislation. Minister Počavalšku is more than arduous democratic legislative procedures that correspond to the conclusion of suspicious transactions under the table, away from Parliament and the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Michael Prevc, who will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act sets out, in the first place, certain obligations resulting from compliance with the European Union Directive in this area. In this way, the Directive provides for the possibility that all shareholders will be able to identify their shareholders. More specifically, however, it is the right of shareholders to vote in the Assembly without intermediaries and to exercise their rights or to empower intermediaries to do so. The Directive also obliges public shareholders to make compulsory remuneration policies for all members of management and control bodies, including executive directors. The draft law also provides for the possibility for shareholders to express their views on the remuneration policy. The bill thus stipulates that this position is of a consultative and non-binding nature. The proposal for a law with a view to managing the risks provides for the mandatory consent of the supervisory board of the company to conclude the business of the related parties in force. However, it is not necessary to obtain consent when it comes to transactions carried out in the context of regular business. Insurance and investment firms and funds will have to prepare and publish a cooperation policy and a report on the implementation of the cooperation and voting policy. The bill also extends a set of criminal offences that prevent an individual from becoming a founder, associate and entrepreneur by committing crimes against human health and against the general security of human beings and property. An additional restriction on the establishment and acquisition of business shares is also laid down for persons who, by a decision of the market inspectorate, have been fined for an infringement of the company’s basic capital. The bill also provides that large and medium-sized companies that revise annual reports should present the relationship between the two genders in the governance and control bodies in the description of diversity policy. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u90	Dear President, fellow Members, distinguished Members! We have before us an extensive amendment to the law governing economic societies. This is largely due to the transposition and harmonisation of European rules on the promotion of long-term participation and identification of shareholders. On the basis of the proposed amendments, companies will have the right to request information on who their shareholders are, allowing the disclosure of the shareholder even in cases where they are misleading intermediaries as shareholders. Additional control of remuneration policy for all members of management and control bodies shall be introduced. The novelty brings greater transparency to the transactions concluded with connected persons, as after a new business whose value exceeds 2,5 % of the value of the asset will be made public. The supervisory board's consent is required for the validity of transactions concluded with connected persons. The provisions of the novelty are aimed at achieving better information for shareholders and investors, in particular by establishing additional obligations for institutional investors, asset beneficiaries and voting advisers. The novelty tightens the existing restrictions on the establishment of companies. New restrictions include convictions for crimes against human health and crimes against general human security and property. A new business entity will not be able to establish those who, by a decision of the market inspectorate, have been fined in respect of an unauthorised intervention in basic capital, as well as those who have been denied an identification for VAT purposes by the tax authority on suspicion of abuse. The competent authorities will further review the existence of circumstances that prohibit the establishment of companies also for the natural and legal persons of other Member States or third countries that establish companies in Slovenia. According to the new report, any application in the Registry will also have to include the business address and e-mail of the business entity. We objected to the entry of an electronic address in the SAB because we believe that any service to an unprotected electronic address is dangerous for business and contrary to the applicable law governing service. Even today, a special electronic service arrangement is in place in a secure electronic drawer, which is in most cases available to business entities for use by e-tax portals. Service via an electronic address should therefore be regulated in a uniform and systematic manner, with a secure electronic drawer, which they also advocated at the Ministry of Public Administration in the context of intersectoral coordination. Inadequacy of service to ordinary electronic mail is also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the SAB, we did not agree to a completely pointless provision according to which all business documentation had to be kept exclusively at the company's business address. Such arrangements would be contrary to current legislation which provides for the possibility of electronic storage, storage in authorised accounting, contractual archives and the possibility of operating in virtual offices. Therefore, in the SAB, together with the LMŠ and SD, we have submitted a supplement which has drawn this reckless government proposal from the law. In doing so, we have saved many smaller legal persons and entrepreneurs disproportionate costs that would be incurred by renting additional premises solely for the purpose of storing documentation. In the SAB Group, we will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar's next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Company Act is still based on the logic of the free market, the limitation of the state and the blind rule of law. This is clearly the core of market deviations from the rules, so the novels of the law are correcting what they can fix. But the limit of the law is to go beyond the neoliberal perspective and to define where the good and fair conduct of entrepreneurs begins. Without any doubt, it can be confirmed that there is no ambition in the amendments to the law to change the dominant ownership logic with equity. The company serves not only the owner, but a wide range of participants, employees, business partners, buyers. Friedman’s winged company as a profit machine for owners is increasingly replacing market economy theories as a business company. The Law on Economic Companies introduces into the Slovenian legal order the European Directive on the promotion of long-term participation of shareholders, while at the same time trying to further prevent anomalies in the establishment of new companies, the mechanisms for chaining companies. Entrepreneurs have avoided doing so, however, to legal, business, social and moral standards and to the requirements of the social market economy. By setting up new companies, they avoided bankruptcy and creditors' demands; they did not pay employees both wages and social benefits; they avoided paying taxes to the State; they deceived business partners and so on. But the key is two. Firstly, whether we have information platforms, such as Ipes, Furs or labour inspectorate, which will automatically enable the establishment of companies for all those who have abused the principles and rules of the market company. Secondly, whether we have a sufficiently clear system, even a certain body that would arbitrate in exceptions and specific situations that cannot be fully covered in extremely complex insolvency law and business practice. Unfortunately, the new approach does not provide uniform answers, but in particular the fundamental problems are not so legal, but mainly economic and, to a large extent, moral. The European Directive, which is being transposed into our legal order, also covers the transparency and approval of the business of a company with connected parties and the remuneration policy of directors and the resulting rights of shareholders and information. The illusion of corporate management is the most sophisticated and today one of the most obvious forms of the economy of innocent fraud. Ownership, while equity is routinely recognized and appreciated, management is still too obvious without any role. The need for economic and political understanding sometimes requires a direct contrary comment, assuming that managers' salaries in companies are determined by shareholders or members of the supervisory board, is an expression of empty faith. Let no one be in doubt, shareholders, owners and their supposed representatives are completely subordinated to management in each major company. Although it offers an impression of the authority of the owners, it does not really exist. Clearly, the only real contribution of the current changes remains a certain strengthening of the role of shareholders and a slightly greater transparency of business. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's a palm joint. The new company law is a welcome correction of the irreparable. The new restrictions on the establishment of businesses will not replace poor capitalism with good, its core needs to change, its public responsibility for private interest. But that was already Adam Smith's dilemma. The invisible deadline of the market is the hidden deadline of the thieves and the visible deadline of the country is the path to economic democracy. Without it and without economic democracy, the market society also sees a political decline. Members of the Desus Group will support amendments and additions to the Company Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The last position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u94	Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the amendments and additions to the Company Act, because in some ways uncontrolled capitalism, especially those that come to us from abroad, will be at least a little favoured. For the benefit of Slovenian citizens, it is certainly not the main criterion for the profits of corporate owners, but especially of foreign citizens. Corporations in Slovenia should not only be a way of earning profits for owners, but should benefit the main stakeholders. He knows who. I'm a Slovenian. We most welcome the alignment of the situation of Slovenian legal persons with foreign legal persons who were in a better position than before, since the data on non-criminality had not been verified before. With this, we will at least avoid the arrival of corrupt companies from abroad, which is the welfare of Slovenia in the last place. This proposal could be further strengthened, as we cannot always rely on official records of foreign countries with certainty. Here we could introduce an additional step in identifying impunity or their suspicious past. We should prepare a list of so-called critical countries for which there is a risk of inaccurate information from their records. Companies from these countries would double-check, as the welfare of Slovenia must be absolutely in front of the financial interests of foreign companies. Here we should pay attention to those corporations from abroad that do not even have their shares in their home countries, but use postal mailboxes in so-called tax havens. The desire of corporate founders who had established companies before or who owned other companies has always been the creation of profits, which unfortunately has often been achieved by avoiding taxes and by requiring creditors. Restrictions on the establishment of companies for those with any suspicious past is an absolute step forward in the direction of controlled capitalism. It is also very good that companies will have to provide information on directors' remunerations and awards, as these are often uncontrolledly paid, sometimes already at the limits of legality. These awards are usually not proportionate to their contribution to the welfare of all stakeholders, so it is right that we Slovenians are informed about this. We also strongly support the need for new management to ensure that communication with workers in society regarding the provision of instructions for their work takes place in the Slovenian language. Many companies today communicate with employees in English, not only with foreign employees, but even with Slovenians. The Slovenian nation and the knowledge of the Slovenian language is something that unites us as a nation, and it is right that this is also applied in jobs. Even though it may seem a small step, there is a big shift in the direction of a upright attitude, since we certainly do not need to adapt to foreign jobs. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment in rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u96	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State has also been very welcome. In September, there were 12 thousand and 500 disabled people in Slovenia, of whom 10,000 were disabled, who have long been unemployed. 17 years ago, the Slovenian State took an important step forward by adopting the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which has improved and improved the situation in this area. Now is the time for us to make improvements with this law as well. The amendment itself comes from the conclusion that there are some shortcomings. In a practical case, let me give you an example of a flaw. An employee who is a third-rate disabled person receiving an invalidity allowance of €220 per month shall apply to the employment rehabilitation system and shall also be employed for 8 hours per day. The worker did not receive any remuneration for inclusion, although she did almost full-time work. Also, after the current disability system and persons with disabilities who do not reach 100 working hours per month, they are not entitled to additional remuneration. Today's bill will start employment rehabilitation in some way compared to social activation. What does that mean in practice? If, at this point in time, disabled persons in employment rehabilitation need at least 100 working hours per month to receive additional benefits if they receive a disability, then this is excluded and they are not receiving lunch. According to the new proposal, persons with disabilities who can spend 60 to 128 hours a month will receive 54% of the minimum wage. This means the current calculation of EUR 508 or the new calculation of the minimum wage of EUR 553. By the way, 40% of the minimum wage for disabled persons who reach at least 100 working hours per month is EUR 376. The disabled and disabled who will be able to spend more than 128 hours a month will receive 65% of the minimum wage, that is, 611 euros a month or after a new calculation of 666 euros a month. During the first reading, changes were made. One of the amendments was also made on the proposal of a coalition Member to make it more clear that everyone can receive the benefit. In addition, the Committee took into account the Government's view that only those working within professional rehabilitation and, most importantly, when we introduced the law due to procedural and business regulations, could not be written to enter into force after publication, but was the date of entry into force 1. 1. 2022. On the initiative and in agreement with the proposal of all parliamentary groups and in the absence of opposition from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this dictatorship has been amended and the law will enter into force when it is published in the Official Journal plus 15 days. Within 30 days, social work centres will have to calculate a new remuneration for employment rehabilitation. Dear Members, someone is saying that every step counts. With this step, we will take an important step forward in employment rehabilitation, and I thank everyone for their support so far, and I am pleased that support for the law that will help people with disabilities is unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law is as a parent working body the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, and I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The committee was attended by representatives of the proponents, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, the Ombudsman, a representative of the State Council, and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. First, in a supplementary explanation on behalf of the applicants, he briefly presented the draft law, Mr Židan, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their opinion and then the representative of the Commission of the Council of State. This said that the Commission is of the opinion that, if effective and accessible, employment rehabilitation can, to a large extent, contribute to the return of the disabled, who has been removed from normal life and the work process for a certain period of time after the injury or for other reasons, to the work environment, which can contribute significantly to his faster recovery and to a sense of usefulness. The representative of the Government presented the opinion of the Government and stressed that the Government does not oppose the proposal for a law. The Ombudsman said that he had for a long time warned about the inadequate payment of cash benefits for the period of inclusion of disabled persons in the employment rehabilitation service, in particular with regard to the inclusion of disabled persons in the training services with a specific employer. The Ombudsman also pointed out in his recommendations that these persons did not have the right to reimbursement of the cost of lunch during training with a specific employer, and was pleased that their recommendation would be taken into account by adopting the amendment. In the debate, MEPs and Members stressed the importance of ensuring a fair and fair reward for the disabled involved in employment rehabilitation services. In a variety of ways, persons with disabilities must be provided with decent benefits either in the context of employment rehabilitation or in the context of the pension and disability insurance scheme and the latter-related allowances. In the past, it has already been proposed several times that the lowest invalidity pensions should be increased to at least the level of financial social assistance, but that there was insufficient obedience to adopt the proposal. Disability is one of the most vulnerable social groups that is often placed on the edge of society, rather than allowing them to become actively involved in society under the adapted working conditions. Some employment rehabilitation services are carried out on a substantially shorter scale and an amendment has therefore been adopted that in such a case it is not necessary for a person to recognise the cost of food compensation. These were therefore the debates of Members and Members of the Home Committee which addressed this bill. On the basis of a proposal from the representative, we propose that the Committee adopt an amendment to bring the law into force 15 days after the publication of the Official Journal. That is also what Mr jedan said earlier, and I am also glad that we have taken such a decision unanimously. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. A complementary proposal is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. To the flower of Uršić, the secretary of state at the Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u100	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Employment Rehabilitation Act was adopted in 2004 and contributed significantly to the better situation of disabled persons in the labour market in those 15, 16 years. This has been achieved, both because of employment rehabilitation services and because of various other measures or rights, financial support, the quota system and also specific forms of employment for disabled persons, such as disabled companies or employment centres. That this is true, in addition to what Commissioner Židan said on behalf of the applicants, it is also worth adding that, say last year, the number of all unemployed persons has increased considerably and we have a 6% drop in the case of people with disabilities. This means that these measures work. However, changes are needed to further improve the situation of people with disabilities in order to further stimulate people with disabilities in order to participate in employment rehabilitation programmes. This change under consideration today will certainly contribute to this. At the time of training, the disabled must also receive an adequate income, which was, when the law was adopted, appropriate and today is no longer the most. The Government therefore supports the proposal for a law tabled by the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the List of Marjan Šarca, we have been seeking to find just solutions to improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups in our society. As co-proposers of the new Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, we want to give the disabled involved in employment rehabilitation a fair and fair reward for the work done. We know that disability is not a choice, and each of us can face it. People in such difficult circumstances should therefore be allowed social inclusion and as much autonomy as possible and encouraged on this path. The aim of the novel, which is now before us, is to promote social inclusion and employment of people with disabilities, allowing them to take a stand on their own path and take care of their social and material security. That is why motivation is also crucial. And, yes, even a fairer payment, including reimbursement of food costs. By adopting the bill, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Council of Disabled Persons involved in Employment Rehabilitation will be able to reimburse the cost of nutrition during the period of employment rehabilitation. Furthermore, we will allow the right to receive money for those persons with disabilities who are unable to do more than a hundred hours at monthly level, and on the other hand those who want and can work more will be entitled to an appropriate higher remuneration award. In addition, persons with disabilities who receive monetary compensation or financial assistance under the rules of the rights of unemployed persons or who receive monetary compensation under the rules of disability insurance will be entitled to the remuneration. It is also worth pointing out that the amendment of all parliamentary groups was also adopted on the Committee, with which the law will apply as early as this year, on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, and not until 2022, as originally envisaged. We are extremely pleased that the opposition novel on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities on the committee responsible has been adopted unanimously that the coalition has also seen the well-intentioned solutions proposed and has defeated too many times in the National Assembly the seen division into coalition and opposition. We wish it were so many times and in the future. We will, of course, support the proposal today in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Long-term unemployment is one of the key problems of the Slovenian labour market. The group of long-term unemployed also includes a number of persons with disabilities who face different personal circumstances, which are unfortunately not affected, and are an important factor in their employment opportunities. Disability can be faced by every individual, as it is often due to accidents at work or outside the working environment or because of a severe long-term illness. The Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, adopted in 2004, is a central measure of the State to promote the employment and social inclusion of persons with disabilities. The purpose of the law is to allow conditions for the equal participation of disabled persons in the labour market by encouraging their employment in adapted jobs in the normal working environment. In the context of employment rehabilitation, disabled persons are motivated and encouraged to play an active role in the labour market, opinions are drawn up on their skills and skills, and assistance is offered in the selection of the relevant profession and in the search for suitable employment. In the light of the current regulation laid down by the law, the disabled person involved in employment rehabilitation shall receive a cash benefit only if the employment rehabilitation is carried out more than 100 hours a month and if the disabled person is not receiving any other unemployment or disability compensation. This means that a disabled person who does not have other benefits for employment rehabilitation receives 40% of the minimum wage, which today amounts to a good EUR 376 per month, which is significantly less than social assistance. The limit of 100 hours that a disabled person has to make in order to be entitled to a cash receipt is unattainable for some persons with disabilities, as many persons with disabilities have certain working restrictions that limit their working capacity to half-time. On the other hand, the current arrangement for the amount of work done over 100 hours in employment rehabilitation does not provide for an additional reward, nor does it provide motivation for those with disabilities who are able and willing to work more than 100 hours a month. The issue of the monetary benefits of persons with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation was also highlighted by, among other things, the Ombudsman, who in his recommendations called for an appropriate regulation of the issue. Respected and respected! We support the proposed changes to the law because we believe that it is imperative to settle the issue of decent and fair pay for people with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation. According to the new report, persons with disabilities involved in rehabilitation will receive a cash benefit equivalent to those involved in the social activation programme. If the employment rehabilitation ranges from 60 to 128 hours per month, the disabled will receive 54% of the minimum wage per month and if they work more than 129 hours per month, they will be entitled to 65% of the minimum wage per month. In addition, the disabled will be entitled to a new allowance for lunch at a time when they will be trained in the workplace. Such monetary benefits will certainly contribute to greater motivation for people with disabilities to participate actively in employment rehabilitation and to assume responsibility for successful completion of rehabilitation, increase their sense of usefulness and enable people with disabilities to work and take care of their own social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act was adopted to improve the employability of persons with disabilities and to create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market by removing barriers and creating equal opportunities. If 100% were to follow this objective at the time of the adoption of the law, it is likely that today it would not be necessary to amend this law in the work relating to fair pay for the work done. In the light of the current arrangements laid down by the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, the disabled person involved in employment rehabilitation services shall not be entitled to a cash benefit if the employment rehabilitation services are carried out for a period of less than 100 hours per month and if the disabled person is the recipient of a financial compensation, under the rules of unemployment rights or under the rules of disability insurance. Thus, some of the most difficult disabled persons can be trained free of charge for up to two years before they receive any employment or a decision on unemployment. Such an arrangement is discriminatory and criminal. For many years, the Ombudsman has also warned us about the lack of regulation in force, which considers that the disabled person should be paid in a relative proportion, given the number of hours spent. We believe that the amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act will be adopted unanimously and will enable the disabled involved in employment rehabilitation services to receive a fair pay or reward. The novelty allows persons with disabilities in employment rehabilitation to recover the cost of eating during work received by employees in the public sector, in the case of training in a specific job or service J, and the payment of benefits which will be proportionate to the number of hours of work rehabilitation. This will also benefit those with disabilities who are unable to perform work of more than 100 hours a month, while those who are able to work more will have the opportunity to earn more money. The invalidity granted the right to work rehabilitation will, in the new case, be entitled to a remuneration of 54 % of the minimum wage per month if the employment rehabilitation services are carried out in the range of 60 to 128 hours per month, or 65% of the minimum wage per month if the employment rehabilitation services are carried out in the range of at least 129 hours per month. Until the said remuneration for the duration of the employment rehabilitation period, a disabled person who receives monetary compensation under the rules of the rights of unemployed persons or a financial compensation under the rules of disability insurance, i.e. working persons with disabilities, will also be eligible. Disability is one of the most vulnerable social groups, often pushed to the brink of society. With today's novelty, we will take a step further in the direction of greater motivation for work in the framework of employment rehabilitation, and let us hope that the faster integration of people with disabilities into society, and especially in appropriate employment, which is also the goal of employment rehabilitation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will move the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again. The field of working rehabilitation of persons with disabilities has a range of open wounds and opportunities for improvement at systemic and detailed levels in the Slovenian legal system. The solutions provided by the current proposal partially address the problem of working rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Currently, the monetary remuneration referred to in the proposal, persons with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation, shall receive only if the disabled is not entitled to any other social transfer. As a result, the majority of persons with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation do not receive this award in the notes. The invalidity involved in employment rehabilitation services shall, under Article 17 of this Act, have, inter alia, the right to receive cash for the duration of the employment rehabilitation period of 40 % of the minimum monthly salary if it is carried out to a minimum of 100 hours and if the disabled is not a beneficiary of a financial compensation or financial assistance for the rights of the unemployed or for the benefit of a disabled person. The key injustice is, therefore, the following. The invalidity involved in rehabilitation shall not be entitled to any monetary remuneration if it is working less than 100 hours a month and if the recipient is a financial compensation or cash benefit from unemployment or disability insurance. The limit of 100 hours that a disabled person has to make in order to be entitled to a cash receipt is even technically impossible for some persons with disabilities due to the decision of the STIZ to be able to work only after four hours a day, i.e. in the sum of 80 hours a month. On the committee responsible for the work, the Labour Advisory Office has repeatedly pointed out the issue of the monetary benefits of disabled workers' rights. In this particular case, he also pointed out to the Ombudsman, who in the 2019 annual report stated that it was imperative to amend the law so that the disabled person would benefit from a proportional share, if more than 100 hours had been paid and that the disabled who are trained in the workplace would be reimbursed for the cost of lunch. The proposed legislative changes follow the recommendations of the Ombudsman and representatives of disabled workers, thus eliminating key irregularities, although systemic challenges remain open. A disabled worker is a worker and a worker is required to pay. But for the work they are doing, they are entitled to a reward or to a financial gain. So the worker does the job and does not get paid for it, but a social transfer, and the company enjoys the worker without the obligations imposed by labour law. This is a systemic problem that this novel does not address. While this major issue of systemic nature remains open, the novelty still improves the situation of people with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation, which we support in Levica. In conclusion. The problem of employment rehabilitation remains where, in fact, it is not about rehabilitation, but actually about employment. If a disabled person is involved in the production process carried out on the free market, he should be entitled to pay for work and enjoy the labour rights guaranteed by labour law. Therefore, as a travel agent, it will be necessary to clearly distinguish between individual aids on the one hand and the rehabilitation of the workforce and, on the other hand, the actual exploitation of the work of disabled persons in the production processes of specific companies, on the market, with profits where disabled persons, on the other hand, are trained in the workplace. But where it's not really a disabled person who takes advantage of the opportunity to work rehabilitation, it's a company on the market that takes advantage of the worker's disability for its profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Tadeja Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. People with disabilities are an important part of our society and they belong to it. They must be able to shape their own everyday life. Integration must be present to the whole society. Disability shall not constitute a risk of poverty for disabled persons and their closest or for social exclusion. It is very important for them to be able to cover at least partially their costs through work, so we advocate their involvement in work and in society and independent life. We need more openness in hiring people with disabilities. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation, as the proposal regulates the current inadequately arrange monetary benefits, whereby those disabled who can only work for four hours a day cannot receive a cash receipt during the time of employment rehabilitation. At the same time, the proposal, with the introduction of two categories, encourages additional work for those able to do several hours. Persons with disabilities who are able to work should be encouraged to engage in a work relationship, as this makes it easier to engage in society, to design their lives further, and to take care of their retirement pension at an age. After the current arrangement, only persons with disabilities who spend more than 100 hours a month are entitled to a cash benefit at the time of employment rehabilitation. They receive 40% of the minimum wage, which is 367.23 euros per month. The novel proposes two new categories for monetary remuneration, i.e. persons with disabilities would receive 69% of the minimum net salary of 506,75 euros per month for 60 to 128 hours of work done in the framework of employment rehabilitation. For 129 hours a month or more, 83 % of the minimum net salary is 60,000,29 euros. While some challenges remain in the employment of persons with disabilities, the procedures for obtaining a disability decision take too long and the unknown remains why some employers still fear hiring disabled persons despite support for adapting jobs and subsidies for employment. Our task is to address these problems properly and try to find the best possible solutions to promote the work and inclusion of people with disabilities. I am pleased that as early as 2004, when she was head of the Ministry of Labour, she wrote this law, which we are now upgrading and by our actions we show that we care about the most vulnerable in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Your Honor! The purpose and purpose of employment rehabilitation, which is carried out as a public service, is to train persons with disabilities to work independently of their own social and material security. The current regulation, defined by the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities Act, lays down the threshold of 100 hours per month for eligibility to receive money. This means that, in order to be eligible for the payment of the service of employment rehabilitation, an individual must perform this to a minimum of 100 hours a month and must not receive any cash compensation or cash assistance. The limit of 100 hours, which means more than half the employment that a disabled person has to do in order to be entitled to a cash benefit, is unattainable for some persons with disabilities. For the profession and decision decide how much it can work. Others can also do without any major problems for more than 100 hours. And right here is the problem that we are addressing with the proposed novel. The existing arrangement for the amount of work done over 100 hours does not provide for an additional reward, nor does it provide motivation for those disabled who are able and willing to work in the framework of rehabilitation for more than 100 hours a month, since the remuneration is not calculated on the basis of the actual number of hours completed. Such a way to reward persons with disabilities involved in employment rehabilitation is unfair, as has been repeatedly pointed out in recent years. The Ombudsman also warned of this. We therefore welcome the opposition's joint proposal for a positive change in the way that everyone, those unable to do work for more than 100 hours, and also those doing work for more than 100 hours, will be entitled to the cash receipt. On the one hand, we thus ensure the social security of individuals who are currently not entitled to the benefit and, on the other hand, we reward those who can do more, which undoubtedly has a positive impact on the motivation and full inclusion of these persons with disabilities in society. We will certainly support the proposal of the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! Persons with disabilities, like everyone else, have the right to dignity, independence and full participation in society. Not to be socially excluded, but to participate in society and be included as anyone else is the fundamental right of every citizen of the world. The modern view of disability is based on human rights, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination and the provision of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all. The understanding of disability and the attitude of society towards people with disabilities have changed markedly in recent decades in the Republic of Slovenia. The social situation and the role of persons with disabilities are formed in the relationship between the disabled and the whole social environment through everyday practice, which requires a pretty active role for the disabled themselves. Our society has taken a major step from a protective attitude towards people with disabilities to an effort to enable people with disabilities to lead their own lives and take responsibility for their decisions. However, this cannot be achieved without the country's legal standards and measures to equalise the potential of this population group. By concretely creating equal opportunities for people with disabilities or even positive discrimination in all areas of life, a society or a state not only follows the commitments it makes under either some international legislation or national declaration obligations, but actually does what we must do as a society. Today, as I am pleased to say, we will do so in harmony. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. It can be said that one of the roof rules that contributes to the better ability of people with disabilities to adapt and improve their career or employment skills and to remain or become socially involved and economically independent. Today, we will upgrade the law so that all persons with disabilities involved in the system of employment rehabilitation will receive a fair and fair reward for their work and, in this connection, also the cost of nutrition. From now on, they will be awarded employment rehabilitation in such a way that those with disabilities who have no other income and who will work 60 to 128 hours in the framework of employment rehabilitation will receive a monthly remuneration of 54% of the minimum wage. Those whose hours of work will exceed 129 hours and the maximum possible reward for the work performed shall be 65% of the minimum wage. An important change is also that persons with disabilities who receive cash or cash benefits from the rights of the unemployed or from the rules of disability insurance will also be entitled to cash benefits, with the sum of the benefits from all the resources mentioned above not exceeding the percentage of the minimum wage fixed for each of the respective levels of employment rehabilitation services. Desus and all his Members support this solution. We are convinced that it is essential for persons with disabilities to be provided with decent remuneration in different ways and that their status and the resulting rights are regulated in a comparable manner, subject to adapted conditions, so that they can be treated equally to all other citizens and citizens, both on employment opportunities and after the evaluation of payments for work. At this point, I would like to thank the proposaler, Mr Dejan Židan, that he has even put this matter on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. First, let me say that workers with disabilities who are employed for 4 hours and 4 hours after pension insurance are nothing so far. I hope that the government will also remember this group of citizens. Article 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that persons with disabilities are provided with protection and training for work in accordance with the law. Disability is one of the most vulnerable social groups. He often pushes them to the edge of society and turns his back when he needs help the most. Their human dignity is also threatened. The fact is that disability does not choose and can hurt anything between us. We can cross them by allowing them to participate actively in our society, our collective, under the adapted working conditions, and thus feel equivalent to other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who works deserves a fair wage for his job. And there are no other persons with disabilities who also want a fair and social fair reward when they are involved in employment rehabilitation. It is therefore on the ground that disabled persons in employment rehabilitation are entitled, following the amendment of the law, to reimbursement of food costs during work, as received by employees in the public sector. Today, too few employers are aware of the importance of motivation at work, either on the inside or on the outside. Motivation can also be encouraged by a higher reward for the work done. The solution whereby a group of persons with disabilities would receive benefits commensurate with the number of hours of social activation or inclusion represents an important step in the right direction. Pursue the goal of acquiring additional knowledge, skills to be competent and able to work alone. This would provide for our own social security, material security, and we could live off our own work, not on the shoulders of others. As one of the shortcomings of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, several stakeholders identified the pressing issue of the proposed law. It is time for this open issue to be resolved after more than 15 years, which arose shortly after the introduction of the law. In practice, it is becoming more and more controversial, current, as the proportion of disabled workers involved in employment rehabilitation is increasing over the years. We must not forget that just efficient and fast-accessible employment rehabilitation is crucial to enabling people with disabilities to return to the working environment more quickly, thus undoubtedly helping them to recover more quickly and feel useful. In the neighbouring country of Austria, there is also a case of good practice where the reform of the disability pension system reduced the number of persons entitled to a disability pension and increased the number of persons with health problems involved in the labour market. Although the indicative financial implications of the state budget novel amount to around €5 million per year, this is not such a big deal for the country compared to other expenditure, and for the disabled, every additional euro for the work done is a big deal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The last position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! In opening, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. As of course in the Slovenian Democratic Party's party, we have always advocated helping people with disabilities because they are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. It is true that there are still many open issues and problems in this area, so any proposed solution, regardless of who proposes it, is welcome and will always be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It seems important to me that the government of Janez Janša in 2004 drafted a basic law on the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, which then entered into force in 2005. On the basis of the law adopted, it helped a lot of people with disabilities to get a job easier and faster and stay in the labour market. By amending this law, we want to ensure a fair and social fair reward for persons with disabilities involved in the service of employment rehabilitation, thereby increasing the skills of persons with disabilities for self-employment, employability and care of their own social and material security. The main solutions in the draft law are: Article 17 is proposed to be supplemented, so that the disabled involved in employment rehabilitation will be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of nutrition during the period of employment rehabilitation at the level of the food regression during work for public sector employees. The current arrangements governing the remuneration for disabled persons involved in employment rehabilitation under the ZRSI are not socially fair. The proposed solution will also benefit those persons with disabilities who are unable to perform work of more than 100 hours a month. On the other hand, those with disabilities who are able and willing to do more than 100 hours a month will have the opportunity to receive more money. The amendment of the Committee on Employment, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to the Employment Rehabilitation Act was also adopted on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, which enters into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and not until 2022, as proposed in the proposal for amendments and amendments to the law. I must also say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we are very pleased that the draft law supports all the parliamentary groups and that we are aware that, regardless of the party's affiliation, it is essential that we step together when it comes to the open issues of the most vulnerable groups in our society, of which, of course, the disabled are among them in the first place. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are particularly aware that there is still much work to be done in this area, but we are very proud that this year we have proved that we are a socially sensitive coalition and government, because we have tried to help all vulnerable groups in our society through seven anti-Korona laws. I would like to conclude by stressing once again that in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously and gladly support the proposal for amendments to the law. We're good with people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I interrupt this agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 13. 35. (The sitting was suspended at 13.04 and resumed at 13.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u120	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 9, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 1. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the law that we have on the benches are far from helping the Slovenian shipowner and the Slovenian seafaring, or it is such a very precise set of destruction of the Slovenian shipbuilding and uncompromising giving tax rewards to taxpayers. It offers tax aid to non-tax-paying companies, especially to a company operating through tax havens, one has a subsidiary parked in the Marshall Islands, the other in Liberia. There is another reason why this proposal is bad. In line with these proposals, state aid would also be granted to companies that do not own any ship, and the proposed novelty also allows the taxpayer to transfer the activities to new companies without prior settlement of the tax liability. So one big tax reward for those who don't contribute to the state budget anything that doesn't pay taxes and avoid paying taxes in a big bow. This is also highlighted in particular and very loudly by the company for the preservation of the Slovenian shipbuilding and the development of the Slovenian maritime sector, which says that the government of the foreign private owner, who sold the Slovenian fleet and put the Slovenian shipowner among the taxpayers, is awarding this novel for the destruction of the Slovenian shipbuilding. Of course, we do not support such moves in Levica. But I also expose political non-hygiene. This time the biggest partner in the government that proposed this proposal is still in the previous round, when this law was on the table, i.e. with the proposal of the Government of Marijan Sarca, strongly opposed this proposal, today strongly advocates them, which shows only one such rude serviceability of capital, far from pursuing the public interest of maintaining the economy in which the shipbuilding is, however, a very important sector. We do not support such political and destructive moves in Levika.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much, President. I would like to say that the SAB Group will abstain from voting on this law. That's not because we wouldn't support solutions. The law answers some pressing problems. Remember the Kengurujček kindergarten case, it regulates these matters, so they are more transparent, more specific. It also introduces additional ratings for parents with multiple children. We support all of this in the SAB party. However, we do not support the fact that an important provision, supported by all the congregations, the Council of State and virtually all those concerned, has emerged from the law that was prepared to a greater extent in the previous government, the government of Marjana Sarca. It is a matter of allowing the law to allow those local communities where there are enough free cities in public education to give their consent to finance new departments or new private kindergartens. This is a provision which, according to the municipalities and the Council of State and the entire opposition, is perfectly logical. We in this country have opted for a social state, for public kindergartens, and if public kindergartens investing in infrastructure have available vacancies, it is pointless to finance new departments and kindergartens. This is where the local community should have some codecision. We have united in the opposition right now on the committee, the amendment we have drafted in the SAB and signed by other opposition partners has not been adopted or has not been put to the vote. But it is now, as far as I am aware, that a law has already been introduced today to remedy this situation. For that reason alone, we will not support this law in the SAB party. In short, we will not vote against it, but we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 26 January 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups Levic, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Laundry Service or the Government has not warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Dejan Jidan, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you, President for your word. The Social Democrats Group will support the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. When we begin to prepare a change of law, I must immediately say that we are building on the good law that has brought in the last, I think 17 years of benefit. When we tabled it together as four opposition parties, there was a fear that because of our opposition we would get the wrong response from the coalition and the government, so we appreciate that the government did not oppose the fact that the competent minister did not oppose it and that the coalition actively participated in the Committee's improvements. We appreciate this and thank you, but we would like to reach a similar consensus this year when we are correcting what is absolutely necessary, the system of occupational diseases that has fallen apart in Slovenia in 30 years. I would like to have that agreement even when we determine a minimum disability pension, just as we already have a minimum pension, and we want a similar agreement when we enter into the Constitution the right to a language called sign language. Thank you for your word, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Siter will explain the voice of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Left also welcome these solutions and we will support them because they respond to some key irregularities in the field of working rehabilitation of people with disabilities in Slovenia, which has a series of open wounds in the Slovenian legal system, but, as said, offers one solution. The key injustice that occurs at this time is the following. The invalidity involved in employment rehabilitation shall not be entitled to any monetary remuneration if, in the employment rehabilitation, it works less than 100 hours a month and is entitled from another title, either to the rights of unemployed persons or to disability insurance. So in this case, he doesn't get any cash for the job. Change is a key solution that we support in Levica. However, the field of working rehabilitation of persons with disabilities has many open wounds, systemic challenges that this solution does not address, but it is worth talking about in the final stage. The problem of employment rehabilitation remains largely where, in fact, it is not about rehabilitation, but actually about employment. If a disabled person is involved in a manufacturing process, he should therefore be entitled to pay for work and enjoy all the rights guaranteed by labour law. Pika. Therefore, it will be necessary to clearly distinguish between individual aid and rehabilitation opportunities in future and the actual exploitation of the work of persons with disabilities in production processes, i.e. concrete enterprises on the profit market where disabled persons are trained in the job leaflets, as a possible future traveller and a greeting for such initiatives. In fact, hand to heart, it is not the disabled who takes advantage of the opportunity to work rehabilitation, but it is the company on the market that exploits the worker’s disability for its profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aliens Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aliens Act is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. In Levica, of course, we will vote against this proposal because it is harmful to people, also hated and contrary to the Constitution and the international conventions. It should be stressed that foreigners are by no means our enemies who try to take over our country, but they are only people who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, but live and work in our country or want to live and work in our country. Unfortunately, the proposed law treats foreigners primarily as unnecessary and seeks reasons for how to deal with them as badly as possible. The first reason for us to vote against is the so-called complex crisis introduced by this law, which is an anti-constitutional category, because we have a known war or a state of emergency, and this complex crisis is to be proclaimed by the government according to its own criteria. The second reason is the extension from one year to two years of family reunification. Foreigners are supposed to be working. The figure is to segregate them into labor ghettos, and their family would be just a burden when they were used, and they would go back. There are also children who are forced to live without their parents, who are seasonal workers without any rights in Slovenia. The third is to legalise brutal pushbacks, which are in fact very violent and also contain elements of torture, contrary to the European Court of Human Rights and the international conventions. This forced return came one month ago the book The Black Book of Pushbacks, which describes on more than 1,000 pages the brutal treatment of refugees, migrants treated so inhumanly by the authorities. Strangely, it is those who are most opposed to migration that are the biggest supporters of NATO. It is those who demand an inexorable closure of the borders that they advocate a reduction of taxes and contributions to the benefit of capital. They are opposed to raising minimum wages, ensuring and protecting labour rights and high environmental standards. We know that people are fleeing wars, we know that they are fleeing environmental change, we know that this is the main culprit for migration to other countries. Our policy, however, protects capital and protects the richest's privileges, while those who have been forced to flee are guilty of a bad situation. Wrong solutions. You got them on the wrong end, so we're gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection is suitable for further consideration. Colleague Natasa Sukič, explanation of vote on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I declare that we will vote against it. Why? The Law on International Protection is another of those laws with some "new-speaking" title, which, more than international refugee protection, actually speaks about how to prevent refugees from coming to this international protection. Otherwise, this Slovenian country has been doing well for 25 years. In all these years, we have granted international protection to only 989 people. Since these figures appear to be still too high for decision makers, you are proposing to tighten the conditions for obtaining and maintaining the status of international protection. The main motive, therefore, is to have as few status as possible, not whether applicants really need it. Under the previous governments, this was a little bit more cellophane, and under this government it's getting more outspoken. After all, the media in the solstice of ruling parties openly promote racism and spread fear of foreigners. Let me just give you some more evidence. The recent judgment of the Italian court, which rejected the deportation of Pakistani refugees to Slovenia despite the Dublin Regulation, also bears witness to Slovenia's markedly poor attitude towards refugees, I state, "because of the danger of being dealt with there in contravention of fundamental humanitarian principles and contrary to the provisions of Article 4 of the EU Charter on Fundamental Human Rights." End of story. Even in the judgment, the Court writes, I state, "in this case, the risk that the applicant in Slovenia would be subjected to inhuman and degrading conduct seems justified." End of story. That's how the Italians perceive our attitude towards international protection by now, whichever happens. Of course we'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT IS A PROPOSAL OF THE TRAINING OF THE CONVENTION ON BUSINESS AT HOME 1996, MOD NUMBER 177. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! In Levica, we support the adoption in Slovenia of the International Labour Organization conventions, which respond to the various problems and injustices of different groups of workers around the world and try to ensure certain rights in relation to capital. Therefore, of course, we will also vote for Slovenia to join as the eleventh country in ratifying this Convention. At the same time, however, we must express our disappointment at rhetoric, which is monitoring the ratification of this 1996 Convention. Representatives of the Government were literally misleading when they presented the convention, which had nothing to do with the covid-19 disease epidemic, as something that was consistent with the current epidemiological situation and the increased amount of work at home. The Government has obviously decided to ratify this Convention only because of its title to give the impression that it is doing something in this direction. In fact, it is just a very cheap pianist trick. This Convention has nothing to do with the work from home caused by the epidemic. There is nothing to do with employees who work temporarily from home or with self - employed workers who work from home. This is very clearly set out in the first paragraph of the Convention, which many in both the Government and the National Assembly have apparently deliberately or unintentionally omitted. Work at home or at home, as defined by the Convention, according to English homework, is a work performed exclusively at home and is largely of an informal nature. The subject of this Convention is therefore a special category of poorly paid informal or partly formal workers who work at home for other individuals or businesses often through intermediaries. They are usually paid for a piece of the manufactured product, they receive raw material for their work and they cover most of the production costs themselves. Workers therefore do not sell their products to consumers, nor do they know where their product will be sold. These workers are often the first phase in local as well as in large production chains of global capitalism, for example, in the textile, clothing or footwear industries that brutally exploit these workers. Today such work is also found in modern industries, including the production of aviation and automotive parts, electronics assembly and packaging of pharmaceutical products. Some estimates suggest that there are more than 300 million workers in the world. But since these workers usually operate in an informal economy, they are rarely registered and often do not have contracts, accurate data is very difficult to obtain. These workers are among the most invisible and poorly paid workers, and they probably sewed some of your ties at home. Most of them are women. The proportion of such workers is high mainly in peripheral countries where capital exploits cheap labour and it is therefore unfortunate that only one Asian country has ratified this Convention. The Convention is also the first case in which the International Labour Organisation of the Convention has involved a large group of workers who are mainly women in the informal economy. In 1996, she accepted it due to the successful pressure of a union that brings together more than one and a half million women in India, who in 16 federal states of India are doing just such informal work from home. This Convention therefore does not apply in any way to the current increased volume of work caused by the epidemic, given how many times government representatives try to present it. However, it is an important convention that we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Deputy Ombudsman. On 16 December 2020, the Ombudsman proposed to the National Assembly that Ivan Shelih be appointed Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Ombudsman to Peter Svetina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As the Ombudsman, I have four deputies, each of whom leads the work of several areas of the Ombudsman organizationally and professionally. One of the deputies is due to expire, and I have therefore sent a proposal for a new appointment to the National Assembly. I propose that Mr Ivan Shelih be reappointed as Deputy Ombudsman. Deputy Shelih, who concludes his second term, is an indispensable member of the management of the Institute of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia and an experienced and dedicated associate. The areas currently run include the areas of restrictions on personal freedom, justice, police procedures, private security, detectives and editors, and at the same time the Head of the State Preventive Mechanism. All these challenging and responsible areas are addressed with a great deal of expertise and reliability. The State preventive mechanism led by Mr Shelih, who is also personally involved in carrying out preventive visits, is also preparing proposals and comments on existing or proposed rules. Thus, in 2019 he personally participated in a working group of the Ministry of Health to prepare for the amendment of the Law on Mental Health, made comments and proposals on the draft law on the treatment of juvenile offenders, in the preparation of regulations on the enforcement of prison sentences and many other regulations. In addition to managing the areas in which it is responsible, Mr Shelih also participates and actively participates in domestic and international conferences. He is also the author of several articles on human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is because of his competence, his obsession, his dedication and his personality, and above all his personal integrity that I propose him as my deputy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Ivan Shelih as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years, starting with 18. 6. 2021. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 25. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm asking the appointed Deputy Guardian of Human Rights to join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u137	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u138	I congratulate Mr Ivan Shelih and wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 15 December 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed a candidate, Dr Maja Brkan, to the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. In order to further explain the proposal, I give Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u139	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Following the publication of the re-examination of the Ministry of Justice last June, the President of the Republic received eight nominations for one Judge or Judge in the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. His views on the candidates were communicated to him by both the Government and the Council of Justice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that all eight candidates and candidates are eligible. The Council of Justice informed the President of the Republic that, according to their assessment, based on the expert references of the candidates, in particular in accordance with the Committee’s 255 guidelines, in particular with regard to the knowledge of European Union law and the concrete experience of the proceedings before the courts of the European Union, and taking into account the need for a balanced representation of both sexes, Dr Maja Brkan is the best candidate. As far as the suitability of the other applicants for the invitation to tender is concerned, the Council of Justice has not been identified. The President of the Republic decided, on the basis of an evaluation of the nominations and opinions and after consultations with the heads of the Parliament's parliamentary groups, that Dr Maja Brkan, a professor of European Union law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maastricht, would be the candidate for the post. Dr Maja Brkan has spent the last 15 years of her professional, research and practical work almost entirely studying European Union law. She studied postgraduate at the New York University School of Law and obtained the title of Doctor of Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. She has gained direct experience with the functioning of the Courts of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg since, inter alia, she has been a legal adviser in the Cabinet of Advocate General Prof. Verice Trstenjak at the Court of Justice of the European Union for four years and a legal adviser in the Cabinet of Judge Dr Mark Ilešić at the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the Faculty of Law of the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands, she was first a deputy director of the Centre for European Law, then an associate, and now she is an outstanding professor of European Union law at this university. In the context of its academic and educational work, the European Union’s competition law, which is the dominant area of the General Court of the European Union, has a central place, in addition to its direct experience in court, the next extremely important criterion for the election to the proposed judicial seat. Dr. Brkanova was a guest researcher in the ranks of prominent professional institutions, published numerous articles in leading international legal journals in Slovenian, English, French and German. She participated in guest lectures at some prestigious universities, such as Oxford and Yale. Her bibliography covers close to 50 articles and books, of which two are scientific monographs. In her public presentation at the Presidential Palace, Dr. Brkanov emphasized, among other things, her great desire and commitment, that, in addition to her professional work in the court, she is particularly familiar with the experience and functioning of this court, with Slovenia's legal environment and the environment, while stressing her view of the professional challenges facing the General Court of the European Union. It is reasonable to expect Dr. Brkanov to make an important contribution to the expert judgements of this court in the event of an election. The President of the Republic considers that, due to her exceptional professional academic knowledge, Dr Maja Brkan is a suitable candidate in both the domestic and the wider international environment and the demonstrated knowledge of EU law and the concrete experience of working before the Court of Justice of the European Union, who fully meets the difficult criteria for the proposed function. In the event of its election, the entrusted task will be able to begin to perform quickly, effectively, with the greatest degree of expertise and care. In consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the candidate was given more than convincing support for the election. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly to elect Dr Maja Brkan as a candidate for Judge of the General Court of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, the National Assembly shall decide by secret vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee which runs the vote. These are Franc Breznik SDS, Andreja Zabret LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija Levica, Blaž Pavlin NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or the word VA. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of Members and Members of Parliament vote, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.25 p.m. and will last until 2.40 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.14 and resumed at 14.56.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u141	Dear fellows! We continue with the adjourned session and the 11b point, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote was taken at the Assembly premises on 27 January 2021. 87 votes were distributed, 87 votes cast, 3 votes invalid, 84 votes valid, 78 votes in favour, 6 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Maja Brkan, by a majority of the votes of all Members, was elected a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Dr. Maja Brkan, congratulations on your election. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Matthew Dežman to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Matthew Dežman as Judge of the District Court in the District Court of Slovenj Gradec. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 2. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for an election to the post of Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Jožice Češnovar in judicial office to the post of higher judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which mag is elected to the post of Senior Judge in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Jožica Chešnovar. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for an election to a judicial function to the position of Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Borut Smrdel as a judicial judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Borut Smrdelj is elected as senior judge in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. David Špernjak in judicial capacity at the district judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects mag to serve as a court judge at the District Court in Ljubljana. David Spears. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Left Group. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u142	I give up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia for the period until the expiry of the term of office of members appointed by the Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, Borut Bajž. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which allows the Supervisory Board to fund the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and to dispose of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Damjan Konovšek. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Attorney's Office in Celje for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Zvezdan Radonjić. The request was referred to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Celje for consideration of the assembly. The request was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The National Assembly shall, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 212 and Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as regards the request of the District Attorney-General in Celje number KT8896 2019 TRIRI of 9. 11. 2020 for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against a district judge at the District Court in Ljubljana Zvezdana Radonjić for a reasoned suspicion of criminal offences under Article 159 of the Penal Code relating to the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Penal Code and the criminal offence of regret under Article 158 of the Penal Code, does not grant immunity to Judge Zvezdan Radonjić and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion and explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President of the members and alternates of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions and bodies of public functions to combat the spread of COVID-19 disease from 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision and appointing a President, a Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 26 January 2021, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to Maša Kociper's question on the views of the Government and its President on the long-term consequences of distance learning. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of Mr Vojk Starović's question on violent protests and police. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the functioning of the police. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 65. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the question of the question of "Aljaž Kovacič" on the conditions for the safe return of pupils, students and students to educational institutions. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in relation to the solidarity allowance for older unemployed persons. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the parliamentary question of Natasa Sukić regarding the brutal violence of the police and the excessive use of force over users and users of the Autonomous Horn Zone at the time of the eviction. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the delegation of Lidija Dijak Mirnik, concerning the consequences that the epidemic leaves on children and adolescents, also due to distance learning. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak asked Luke Mesca about the implementation of the second decision of the Emergency Joint Meeting of the Health Committee and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of 20. 2. 2020. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler King to the question of the so-called forced retirement adopted in the seventh anti-Korona package. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, and the Minister of Environment and Magi. Andrej Visiak asked Dusan Šiška about the construction of a landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste and the operation of the Agency for Radioactive Waste. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec, on the question sent by Primož Siter on the outstanding provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and on the development restructuring of the region and the role of the competent ministries in the further liquidation of the company, the rehabilitation of degraded mining areas and their monitoring. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Andrea Reich in connection with the retirement age without a sum. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich asked Tina Heferle about the political pressure on the judiciary. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world, Dr. Helena Jaklitsch, on Violet Tomić's question on the situation of the Slovenian National Minority in the Republic of Austria. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of the question of the question of the care of abandoned and abandoned animals. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Jožeta Podgorška asked Jožet Lenart about the activities and participation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the development of the forestry industry in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Environment and the premises of the Minister of the Environment, Andrej Visiak, to the question of the mission of Željk Cigler concerning the flood safety of Medlog in Celje, Celje and Laško. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 22nd regular meeting of the National Assembly. Members of the College will be informed that in 10 minutes, the 92nd meeting of the College will begin at 3:25 p.m. in the big salon.
