ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 80th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ivan Hršak, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Boštjan Koražija and Miha Kordiš. I invited the President of the Government, Janez Ivan Janša, and the no-resort candidate responsible for digital transformation, Mark Boris Andrijanic, to the 3rd item of the agenda and representatives of the government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 80th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 5 July 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 3. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 80th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. Agenda item – Proposal for a candidate for a Minister without a resource suitable for digital transformation. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229 and Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President Janez Ivan Janša proposed that Mark Boris Andrijanic be appointed Minister without a department responsible for digital transformation. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I propose Mr Mark Boris Andrijanic as Minister without a department to coordinate digital transformation within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The candidate has just successfully presented himself on the parental committee and has received two-thirds support. Allow me a few words to explain the need to establish this coordination within the Government. The European Commission has recently approved a recovery programme and within this programme Slovenia will receive substantial digital transformation funds in the coming months and years. This is a key reason for us to introduce this coordination at a time less than a year before the end of our term of office, as experience has shown that we have not been very successful in the digital transformation of Slovenia. Here's a graph - I don't know if you'll be able to see it - that says a lot. Slovenia currently has high economic growth, low unemployment, we are the fifth most peaceful country in the world, among ten countries after sustainable development. At the same time, we are in the European Union, where the proportion of individuals who think that technology has a positive impact on development, on the tail, is the last, 27. About half of people in Slovenia think that technology can accelerate development and half think virtually the other way around. For this reason, we are also in the 16th place, under the European average, according to the digital index in Europe, and in Slovenia only 5% of all administrative services are done electronically. We are facing a severe shortage of personnel in the field of information technology, and the implementation of procedures on modern devices is hampered due to complex legislation, the ZUP, the Regulation on administrative procedure and so on. While we have many strategies that have been developed and cost-paid, these are without key steps and without realisation. We face resistance to changes that bring greater transparency, and digitisation brings greater transparency, but also greater responsibility for the decisions taken, so there are resistances. By mid-September, our aim is to draw up a proposal for the digitisation of the country, with the aim of classifying Slovenia as the first five countries in the European Union according to the DESI index, by the end of 2026, and allowing for the consistent implementation of the basic principle of the lean country, which is, in all administrative procedures, the State authority which must obtain all the necessary data for the implementation of the procedure, if data exist anywhere in the official databases. By achieving this goal, through digital transformation, we will save citizens and citizens millions of hours of work or hours of leisure, so digital transformation at this time is something that is not just a voluntary choice, but a fact that is needed if we want Slovenia to develop normally in the future. The Strategic Council of the Government for Digitalisation was established in April. Mr Andrijanic organised work in record time, in this world, by confirming the government's first package of measures a month ago. They were more detailed, just at the hearing. I think you've all heard what concrete proposals are here. It's something we all need, in this country, that has nothing to do with such or any other political color. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is simple to do these things if we want Slovenia to take a step with a developed Europe and with a developed world, and given that they are available not only next year, but already this year, next months, substantial European resources, horizontal coordination within government departments is necessary, so that we do not repeat mistakes from the past. So, I recommend you support the candidate, [[sign for the end of the debate]] which is undoubtedly good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, 16 July 2021, the candidate presented himself at a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the report and the opinion of the Committee. The report of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Nice greeting, Prime Minister, all present, and a very nice greeting to you! The President of the Government is 12. Seven. 2021 He sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly for a Minister proposing that the State Council for a Minister without a Department responsible for Digital Transformation be appointed by Mark Boris Andrijanic. Mark Boris Andrijanic is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 16. 7. Presented and answered their questions to members and members of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government. After a brief presentation of the CV and a summary of the work experience, the minister's candidate presented the main points or objectives of his ministry in the introduction. He stressed that digitisation is one of the key areas to become a modern and successful country in which all generations can take advantage of their talents and live a beautiful and decent life. Digitalisation is a tool that can make the lives of citizens significantly easier, while at the same time increasing the added value of the employee, thus leading to higher wages and pensions. In addition to the priorities already set out in the opening presentation, the Minister's candidate responded further to the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee and briefed them on his views, opinions and views, as well as on the proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to his or her activities. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to five, with five votes against: “The presentation by Mark Boris Andrijanic of the candidate for Minister without the department responsible for digital transformation was appropriate.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u6	Once again a very nice greeting to everyone. At today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the proposal for Mark Boris Andrijanic to become a Minister without a portfolio to coordinate the work of ministries in the field of digital transformation of Slovenia and to lead the Government's Digital Transformation Service, which is being established. Mr Andrijanic has proven to be a very competent person already at the head of the Digitalisation Strategic Council, which presented a month ago the first package of measures for digital and modern Slovenia. To date, the package of measures has supported more than 30 different organisations, 40 solutions for the implementation of which Slovenia will focus in the coming months and will accelerate the digitisation of public administration, economy, health, education and society as a whole. As part of these solutions, the candidate for a minister highlighted measures for citizens such as e-building permission, information calculation of children's allowances and a tax fixture, as well as measures for companies which, inter alia, should simplify their business for the country and encourage the creation of legal firms. The Minister's candidate has also highlighted health measures that will use advanced technologies to save lives, reduce waiting lines and save millions in public procurement. He also touched on the areas of education where he announced the introduction of a compulsory subject of computer science and computer science in primary, secondary schools. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support the idea of a Minister without a Resource, as we also believe digitisation needs special attention and inter-departmental coordination. At the same time, we promise that the new Minister would also work well with the Minister of Public Administration. Today's hearing by Mark Boris Andrijanic confirmed that this is a young and successful expert who has experience in the international market and understands well the functioning of the world economy itself. Today, therefore, every vote means putting the interests of the Republic of Slovenia at the forefront. In this case, it is nothing more than Slovenia’s desire to use the funds for digital transformation as effectively as possible and to climb high on the scale of digitally developed European countries. I would like to conclude with today's words by a candidate for a minister who said he sees digital transformation as a team sport in which we can only win if we stick together and if we start today. Knowing that Slovenia has all the resources necessary for the success of the appointment of a minister, the process would only improve in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the candidate for Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Digitalisation is an increasingly advanced information technology that has a profound impact on our everyday lives. Both public and private business are transferred to networks, to computers, and not least to artificial intelligence. In a few years, artificial intelligence is to be judged even in court proceedings. The European Union is also giving an increasing emphasis to digital transformation as it has included it even among its priorities. The US and China are steadily increasing their technological strength and, if the European Union wants to remain competitive, must follow developments. In the SAB, we are aware of the importance of digital transformation, which will, among other things, strengthen the ability to achieve climate neutrality and thus create a better tomorrow for all. There is no doubt that digital transformation is an extremely important topic that must not be overlooked. It is interesting, however, that for the first time, we have heard of the new minister responsible for digital transformation only days ago, and that the bill as a clear shot came to the National Assembly just when the government experienced a large and resounding fiasco at the referendum. It is also on this week's timetable for re-decision on the Illusive Diseases Act, which was given a violent public response and yesterday experienced a clavrena dissipation. All of this points to the fact that the government is essentially just trying to divert attention. The proposed candidate is to be formally proposed by Nova Slovenija, and at the same time in the SAB, we are wondering whether there is any compromise on the balance of coalition forces. The coalition has failed twice to resolve the President of the National Assembly, whom a member of the NSI is expected to replace. Is it really so urgent to appoint a new minister? On 9 April this year, indeed, a strategic digitalisation council was set up, which Mr Andrijanic himself is the water. The Council is divided into six working groups and has 47 members and its main purpose is to lead Slovenia among the five most successful countries in the field of digitisation. Recently, 40 measures have even been presented to the public to lead Slovenia to its intended objective. While some of the measures are promising, the SAB party warns that the government is running out of time, and that is why we do not see any point at this point in confirming the new minister. We have been opposed to this government since the beginning and we are striving for early elections. We also tried to prevent this government from forming. Immediately after the fall of the previous Government, we proposed an alternative and some kind of transitional government. Our votes for a constructive non-trust are also available all the time, especially when it has now been shown at the referendum of what is the will of the people and how they oppose this government. This was an additional non-trust, so it is kind of funny to propose a new minister at this point. Nor can we overlook the fact that it is a person who has tried everything in his previous function to arrive at the Uber Slovenia corporation. If this were to happen, there would be unfair competition and a marked deterioration of our Slovenian taxis. It was those taxi drivers who showed a big heart on last referendum Sunday, unlike the multinationals. Unselfishly, the pensioners who had been denied the post were transported to voters and thus ensured that they had exercised their right to vote. This shows greater state-of-the-art performance than most government representatives do. More than obvious are the views of our party, the SAB parties on what country we want, substantially different from the candidates and those in this government. The social aspect of the candidate does not seem to move too much. In the SAB party, we are advocating for the future, for the welfare of pensioners, for public health, for public education, clean drinking water and, more recently, democratic standards at the highest level. In the SAB, we will therefore vote against the Minister without the Digital Transformation Officer. In order for digital transformation to be successful, our country would be on the right track, we do not need any ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Digitalisation is our great opportunity because it brings disorder as the foundation of a new organisational paradigm. After this paradigm, reality is complex and can only be understood by a simultaneous understanding of this complexity. Reality understands as indeterminate order is an illusion. Many countries define disorder as the biggest challenge of the digital revolution, and this is not a challenge for Slovenia, but an opportunity because disorder is a common thing for us. They've been living in a society where disorder is standard for decades. Finally, we can take advantage of something that has been our constant weakness as a comparative advantage. Sounds pretty bold, but it's a big misunderstanding. More specifically, to mix technology and technology with responsibility and law. Digital transformation is an important part of every developing society. Digitalisation is also one of the priorities of the recovery and resilience plan, and funding from the European Recovery Mechanism will also be allocated. In April this year, the government set up and appointed a Strategic Digitalisation Council, as a consultative body, a government consultative body with specific fields of work and the task of preparing within five months a framework proposal for the necessary systemic changes to accelerate the digitisation of the Slovenian economy, the public sector and the state administration, and proposing concrete measures and legal acts in the field of digitisation. The aim of the establishment of this world was clear: to make proposals as concrete as possible, with the help of which Slovenia can emerge from the five most advanced European countries by the end of 2026. The number of members of the Council at the beginning was 30, now 47. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is an organisational system. Like any organisation, the government also has the freedom to design its organisation structure. Organising is the process of regulating the organisation, the process of its operation and the relations between people. The structure of organisation is the outcome of this process and reflects the static aspect of the organisation of relations between the organisers of organisational tasks. The structure of organisation is a structure, or a useful distribution of organisational capacities by various organisational bases. The organisational capacity shall, however, represent all the human resources, material, financial and other available resources within the organisation that ensure the achievement of the organisational objectives. The proposed change in the structure of organisation by introducing a new ministry, in particular the government service without the digital transformation department, is very important. This is particularly remarkable if we take into account the time horizon of this government. There are only a few months left until the end of the term of office under regular conditions. And in these few months, possible organisational problems could also be resolved through an ad hoc approach whereby decision makers can resolve dysfunction within an organisation that is due to the functioning of external and internal relevant influence factors through interventions within and within the framework of the existing structure. The digitisation of our society is also perceived by us too technologically, and we are very forgetting that digitisation is primarily a valuable phenomenon. Modern technology is also by no means an indispensable and insufficient condition for, for example, effective and responsible public administration. If we are talking about digitalisation as a function of creativity and innovation, then it can easily translate into the creativity and innovation of public servants in avoiding their obligations. Digitalisation is like any other technology, such as powder. We can also use it to help build a house, but we can also use it to send the same house to the prefectures. How digitisation will be used depends most on the legal framework in which power and citizens move. Otherwise, digitalisation will leave the mess that was before, only this time it will be a digital mess. Members of the DeSUS Group have different views and views on the open issues that will also reflect on how we will vote on whether the candidate is suitable for the minister or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u12	The government's amendment to the Water Act was rejected by 678 thousand 400 voters and 86.69% of all those who participated in the vote at 46% of the vote. This means that the opponents of the novel have exceeded two quorums. Seven times the quorum of votes cast for and for almost twice the quorum required to refuse. Moreover, the referendum participation has been the second highest ever. Sunday's referendum was a special one, as voters had the opportunity to comment on the work of power for the first time in this time of epidemic. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the referendum result is a clear and unequivocal message, as it does not only mean opposition to the amendment of the law, but rather means a lack of confidence in the government. Such a referendum result could also have political consequences in countries where high democratic standards are being nurtured. However, as we have experienced so far, the reaction of the Prime Minister, who tells us, without drama. A day later, Mark Boris Andrijanic was sent to the National Assembly for appointment as Minister without a portfolio to coordinate the work of other ministries in the digital transformation of Slovenia. If he is appointed, the candidate will become 17 Minister of this Government. This will enable the government to fill a possible statutory quota for ministers without a portfolio that are authorised. We are wondering whether this definitively means that the government has renounced the Office of Demography, which would have been led by the Minister without a licence, given that the deadline for its entry into force has already been doubled and the quota has now been filled. Does this mean that this government has changed its priorities and believes that more than regulating the situation of the elderly, it deserves its ministerial portfolio, the issue of digitisation. And if the proposed candidate is elected today, we will, in fact, get the minister on stock, without his or her government service, without a ficus and without a secretary. The Prime Minister's proposal therefore represents a smoke screen to cover up his defeat at Sunday's referendum and, as he himself said, to exercise absolute control, billions of European means of recovery after the epidemic. The fact that it is the independent political initiative of the Prime Minister, who has not coordinated with the political partners, also shows the fact that the coalition agreement establishing a government service for this area, unlike demographics, is neither foreseen nor added to it by ad hoc. It is also worth recalling that the government has already established a consultative body named the Strategic Digitalisation Council this year. At that time, the Prime Minister estimated that the Government's digital transformation services were not needed and that it would be sufficient to prepare by September a framework proposal for the necessary systemic changes to accelerate the digitalisation of the public sector economy and the state administration. And this consultative body has partially completed its task. The Strategic Council presented the first package of measures. It was therefore possible to expect individual ministers to implement individual solutions from the set of these measures proposed by the Council, but they appear to be addressed by Mr Andrijanic. The area of the digital and information society belongs to the Ministry of Public Administration, led by the Minister of SMC quota, and that will not be a mistake, is a very important part of this ministry. The SMC minister will probably have to put a part of the information society directorate into his new job. In addition, digitisation programmes are also being prepared in the ministries of economy, education and justice. Digitalisation is one of the priorities of the recovery and resilience plan, whereby Slovenia, from the European Recovery Mechanism, is expected to receive €1.8 billion in grants and €705 million in loans. Digitalisation is part of a multi-key investment plan, including the digitisation of railway infrastructure, the modernisation of education, public administration, health infrastructure, long-term care, eHealth and broadband. So the other ministers are just gonna let this project go? Or they will allow for interference in their projects and associated large amounts of money and, most importantly, contractors or house operators, according to the measure of certain political parties. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we would like to remind you that Slovenia holds the 16th place between 28ths on the Digital Economy Index of Slovenia. After digital development Slovenia is therefore classified slightly below the centre; it is not bad, but it is not able to boast excessively. Let us repeat some of the facts that have already been said on the committee today. At the time of the 2004 term of office, the first Janševa Vlada abolished the Ministry of Information Society, which was established by Drnovškova Vlada. From 2004 to this day, only Cerarjev, who, in addition to the efforts of the then Minister of Public Administration in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, established the Slovenian Digital Coalition, digital.si, which was intended to harmonise the digital transformation of Slovenia in accordance with adopted strategic documents, the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society by 2020. We are therefore aware of the importance of digitisation in the future of Slovenia in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We also agree that the digital breakthrough of Slovenia must be a priority. It is not difficult for us to support many of the 40 Strategic Council measures mentioned for the digitisation of public administration, health, education and the economy. We also have nothing against Mr Andrijani as the leader of this world. But his candidacy points to his political inexperience, for he had landed on it before he even knew what he would be responsible for or what he would be able to decide as a minister, since his government service is now only in the head of the Prime Minister. Our vote against Mr Andrijanic's appointment will not be a vote against him as a candidate and not a vote against his work and the work of the Strategic Council. However, we are opposed to political improvisations, since not the new minister nor the new government service are a crucial condition for further steps in digitisation. In addition, we believe that this is a pyro story, as the President of the Government, after the defeat of the Sunday referendum, the catastrophic beginning of the Presidency of the European Union, the Constitutional Court's decision and the basis for the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases, the CAP5, which has encountered economic disapproval, could also be listed, needs a positive political story so that his Government, although exclusive, reactive or reversed in the past, can be seen as a progressive and modern Government that understands future trends and has a prepared response to these trends. For all these reasons, we will not support the proposal to appoint a minister in the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u13	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u14	Hello! Today we will get a new minister to provide digital transformation in Slovenia. We need this. There is a lot to be done in this area, and the bureaucratic apparatus can be reduced as well. The fact is, the government has a whole range of people sitting around, sniffing around the bottom of their back and not doing the job they're there for. They don't go to work, they go to work. This can be ensured by a good minister, who will be confirmed today, that this will no longer happen. The deadlines and official procedures, which are now endlessly long, will be reduced. Paperwork is moved from angle to angle, letters are returned due to the lack of one comma and so on. This, I think it's also this minister's job to arrange. This will, of course, save a lot of money for the state and for the people, but it is true that a lot of red tape will be able to lose its job, because in this process of digital transformation we will not need sloths that we already have too much. It is true that it will also be necessary to have constant control over the functioning of this minister and, of course, to use as much as possible a healthy farm of intelligence, which disappears and dies in Slovenia if it is not almost extinct. The strategic centre for digital transformation, led by Mr Andrijanic, has shown good results, and the candidate himself, Mr Andrijanic, is also extremely capable, the young expert we need. That is why it makes sense to confirm it and to do a lot of things in this time period that we still have until the next elections. In these months, we can do many more things, huge, of course, by not throwing away this minister without a resort, full of feet. It is true, I have already said, control is mandatory, the use of a healthy farm of intelligence also, and I think that it is Mr Andrijani that this healthy farm of intelligence is not missing. I think it makes sense if we want to modernise our country to confirm Mr Andrijanic today. Another thing is here, the European Union has in those so-called European mechanisms to recover a lot of money prepared for and for these very needs. I don't think it makes sense to reject something because of political interests, but it makes sense to confirm and also to collect that money from the European Union, which will otherwise go to another more intelligent country. I don't think there's any point in saying anything long and much more, the fact is that we will support the candidate in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u16	Good-bye to all of you! When it comes to high technology, many do not even know that Slovenia has been here and is still, in some areas, right at the world summit. There are companies in Slovenia that cooperate with Us in the field of digital technologies, with NATO, the Pentagon, with some of the most prominent institutions in the world and can therefore rightly be placed at the top of the global digital technology field. High technologies including digitisation and digital technologies may be the reason we are rightly proud of our homeland of Slovenia. Unfortunately, there is a process where many of the most respected experts go abroad, which is just the field of digitisation, despite the fact that there are such good companies when it comes to state level, does not follow at that rate or at the speed that we would like to see in the development of science itself. I'm supposed to fix this right now. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to propose a Digitalisation Minister and Mark Boris Andrijanic is certainly a person who is extremely competent for this area. He has a professional education at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, which he completed with a medal and then Master of Public Policy with a degree which he completed in Oxford. His numerous experiences both at Uber and at the Martinus Institute and some other European institutions, where he dealt with the field of digital technologies and the economy, are certainly an appropriate basis for him to carry out his work properly. That he was competent has already proved with work in the strategic world of the Government for Digitalisation, where in record time he prepared more than 10 proposals a package of about 40 proposals has already been adopted and therefore these ideas are already beginning to come true. It will now play a role when it can contribute significantly more to digitisation as a process in all areas of social life in Slovenia, where this is, of course, meaningful and possible. It is necessary to know that no technology is all-powerful and digital, and that sometimes there can be circumstances where individual technology, if introduced, means even more, then an additional problem, so the candidate is justified in maximising the digitalisation process in all those areas where it is meaningful and possible and will, of course, help and substantially help to transform Slovenia into a digital area as a whole into a country that reflects all its scientific potential, which it has had and which it has in recent years. Once again, Slovenia has been at the world summit since the beginning of the development of digital technologies. Our mathematical colleges and all those who were educated there were in the world summit itself. Scientists who have done this in Slovenia who have educated in Slovenia, who have gained experience here, prove their knowledge in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world. We have companies that are at the top of the world. So now is really the time for all of this to come together. To connect this to a meaningful digital whole, to place Slovenia significantly higher on the European scale of digitised countries, so that digitalisation as technology can be established in everyday life, I stress once again where possible and where it makes sense. I wish candidate Mark Boris Andrijanic a successful job and as many achievements as possible in our country of Slovenia and in the field of high technology and digitisation continue. In the SDS, we will support the candidate in a unified manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u18	One nice hello to you all. According to the referendum fiasco, it would be right and right for the President of the Government, if he does not have the courage and responsibility to resign himself, to propose the discharge of at least two ministers, Minister of the Environment, to say Minister Visiak, who has broken and still broken by environmental legislation, and is responsible, together with the coalition Members, for a bad, harmful water law, which fell at the referendum and Minister Cigler King, who left the elderly in the homes heartlessly unable to vote in the DSO. Well, of course, the president didn't do it to his disability, on the contrary. Instead of purging or assuming responsibility, as it is fitting in a structured democracy, to remind us that this government is never guilty of anything, the Prime Minister is expanding his team ten months before the regular elections. The candidate is irrelevant at this point, for his role, his position in this rounding of power, of course, if elected, is already known. As is known his role during the election campaign that awaits us. However, for a moment, let us stop at him and the area that this candidate, if elected, should lead. A candidate, any candidate who is not wrong, cannot get the support of the LMŠ, because a person who believes in human rights and freedoms who respects the rule of law of our country, who believes in democratic principles and the public good, would never want to become a member of this government. These governments, which violate all these graves and try to subdue everything and everyone. The country is governed by an argument of power and fear and disrespect for people. Moreover, the candidate rightly, rightly, raises doubts that as a lobbyist of the multinational Uber, the working relationship, today we have heard, stopped a week ago, managed, hotel and could work for the benefit of the state, society, individual. We don't think he could work for the benefit of the state and the individual. It's a conflict of interest, it's a matter of doubt. The Minister for Digital Transformation should, in our view, be a man of broad perspectives and new advanced ideas, with leadership experiences and authority in his field and a sense of state and public good. The candidate has some good qualities, but that's not enough for the minister. His current service has been contrary to what LMŠ believes the country needs in this area. It was aimed at perpetuating an idea for one company and the aim was to adapt or subordinate the legal framework of the State to the needs of the business model of its contracting entity or of that one company. We also believe that the candidate for digitisation sees through the prism the needs of businesses, not through the prism of the needs of people, user experience, the development of society. And that's what digitization is all about. People's needs must come first. It is wrong for calls and such money to be adapted from the European funds of the recovery and digitalisation fund to precisely defined providers. Offerers who are loyal to the government without this government being asked whether solutions will be effective for the people, for the user. This is why digitisation is intended primarily for people, users, not businesses. Just supporting a candidate for a minister who is indirectly spoken to by one of the economic associations through its members means, of course, that association also supports the actions and actions of the government of Janez Janša, showing the great interest of companies, including foreign companies, in order to have an impact in our country. Why the influence? To get a piece of cake from the recovery and resistance plan. In the LMŠ, we do not object to companies participating. It is disturbing, however, if we get the feeling that certain companies and associations run the ministry or even the country. Isn't it a drop over the edge that I have the feeling that government policy on the EU floor is run by Hungary? The impression of impartiality to work with public well-being and the development of all is still important in these times of crisis. What is happening today is just another in a series of evidence that the current government and this is doing absolutely well for itself, for its own interests by the measure of its friends and not for the people. States and people don't put it first, they don't put it second. At a time when France is effectively dealing with multinational tax privileges, let me remind you only of Google's punishment, Slovenia puts former UBER lobbyist, who recently managed to adapt the law to its needs in Slovenia. In LMŠ we do not object to digitisation. On the contrary, it seems important to us. But we are opposed to the government's dogma that this is a miraculous, homely only solution for us to fall behind. It is not the first, nor the second, and it will not, as long as the focus of the decision-makers is capital, not human and nature, if we add this in terms of the referendum that happened to us a week ago. Information technology must primarily solve problems, make life easier, do not create new barriers and cannot solve structural problems. Information technology does not solve structural problems. Only in Silicon Valley are they convinced and it's somehow logical that all the problems in this world will solve the application. Well, our government has also been convinced that the app will remain healthy to solve the epidemic. It's not like that. The consequences of these platforms, which legitimately pursue their pathic interests, are always new injustices and problems that fall under the burden of the country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as far as you are, Slovenia has a problem, but this problem will not be solved by the new Digitalisation Minister. This problem is called trust in the government, trust in parliament, trust in politics. Sadly, however, the government’s actions and actions have also led to a great decline in confidence in the profession and the police. And all of this was said very clearly on Sunday at the referendum. We don't need a new application to solve this problem, we don't need a new minister, we need an early election, and we need it now. Only these will raise people's trust and thus normalize the situation in the country, which is essential for the development of the whole society. For this reason, we will not support the candidate for the new minister in the LMŠ, but we wish him well regardless of today's result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. In the position of the Social Democrats, I will not politically partisanly seize and seize the seizure of the last referendum, even though our young forum has been very actively involved in this. The fact is, there's water running down someone's throat. Although it's the position of the Social Democrats, I'm going to be a little personal at the start. When I was young and even a little beautiful, I know it's hard for you to imagine, I wrote in a scientific article there in the autumn of 1997, that Slovenia, what is the issue of information development in ler, is on the loose. It's almost a quarter of a century away. In such a time, such and different governments have been exchanged, including the previous Yanshe government, and we are where we are. Of course, we can understand and understand some of the appetites of those, as I say the money coming, but it is not the first time that some economic associations bow to the candidate for minister. I remember how some thanks came out in the work to Mr Virant when he was the minister who was covering it. Two areas are in developed societies, which Slovenia belongs to, because pajdaska corruption stories can be very legalised. One is health and health, the other is of course IT in the broadest sense. There is no exception for Slovenia here. This is where big funds are going around, and that is why serious states think themselves, and politics is a public use of the mind, are being adequately protected. Yes, digitisation with a quarter century delay is a challenge, let's say, for the next 10, 15 years in Slovenia. Yeah, we have a lot of great stories if you're not home from this side of the street or from the Coroque road, because there's this top story in Maribor, so maybe you don't even know. The task of any policy, I don't know, however this will turn out next year or maybe even a little earlier is to try to understand this and I'll tell the crowd theory that these stories become a union and not just a political cut, but also this political cut in the way that we go to see what party card someone or any party may have before the election of a penny ordered or what kind of billings they will never pay. Now, at the site of this story, which some tired political veteran would be better off going to the sunsets and climbing not too difficult to offer, there would be a model that should actually be grabbed by a candidate for a minister, as he eventually studied at Oxbridge, would be a model of an agency that would not be an agency because of the agency, but an agency that would have its autonomy, its budget, its responsibility, its serious supervisory authority and would have to carry out or would have to carry out this challenging process. The second story is that this synergy effect would be appropriate. We also need somehow what they understand and understand in Switzerland, if we already like to talk or have some talked that we would like to be another Switzerland, to roll this sectoral model horizontally. Of course, with the Social Democrats, we'll probably be more lonely here, because then we'll run out of ministerial cities, which we'll be running out of. There are seven ministries in Switzerland, and they are named a little differently. We are in the 21st century and the most powerful natural gift we have in Slovenia is what we have here, the brain and this must be dedicated to this transformation. Now those of you who are talking, including the Prime Minister of the Government, about how you're going to do something softly and debirocratize, etc., you don't really know anything about information policies. You have no idea. You know, because you need people for these trials. You could say yes, we'll do this, this, uno, fifth, sixth, you need people in the back and people are the narrowest throat. If we want these processes to take place like this our children say "twenty fora seven," it has to stand somewhere in the back, but it doesn't have to touch anything. At the beginning of the epidemic, we have found that our smaller epidemiologist and epidemiologist bus is still looking at and counting things that are at many ministries at the level of digitisation, already in some excellies, some more complex formula to write is sometimes a problem. We have some stories. I am looking here, my colleague, his wife, in one part of Slovenia, with a team of informatics, has launched a regional register of diabetes patients, which we still do not have in Slovenia, although this is a whole series of over 200 cancers, an epidemiological area that will accompany us and will be accelerated as opposed to Sars viruses. Some kind of challenge ahead of us. Yes, it is likely that a number of bureaucratic services and structures will also need to be renovated. Here we're going to bump into this because everyone knows who ever listened to sociology, Weber, an iron cage of bureaucracy, which will be very much resisted for a very simple reason, because then comes close to someone doing it on a running tape, monitoring will be there, very clearly then you'll see how much work, what does it do, how does it work. And I wouldn't be sweeping forward like a nobility here on behalf of the Social Democrats and bugging people. We've probably got some nice people at the Ministry who, according to Peter's principle, one, two, three people you put on the sidelines because they were thinking about their own heads. After all, it also happened in the marriage that fell yesterday, and someone said something about it. So it's too complicated and difficult to let go of some of the sabbatical policies. He's very fond to mention and talk about Estonia without knowing much about how the Estonians went about it. And I'll say it again. She was there at some point when, unlike us, they went through some Sacks shock reform. So mature in politics that the leaders of all political parliamentary parties met and first in a closed environment seriously discussed what and how to proceed with Estonia. And without this serious, not in a closed environment because of a conspiracy, but that the matter is being reconsidered and, of course, it communicates accordingly. And even today, this country, which by the number of inhabitants is significantly smaller than Slovenia, is looking and trying to delegate its best talents anywhere, see also a little EU. But with us, we prefer to say good-bye to such people, or these people say good-bye to us, when we actually light them up in this byte, and they sign something here. They're all stories, they're all challenges to us. And of course, the Social Democrats as a serious political force and - I hope - a key member of the future government and coalition will not buy a story that someone will come who has their interests, let us buy something as soon as possible, some software that will work in half, or some equipment that we will not use then. These processes are also difficult. I remember that story when the Slovenian Army went into computerization, and some kekks talked about how they were going to do it in a bad year. And whoever knows a little bit about these trials said, six, seven years, that it matters how much it works. Yeah, there's a lot of people in Slovenia who know about it, but a lot of these people say, you know, Franjo, I'm the most "happy" business, I'm working outside, and here I have a bush. [[?]] Because it's nice to live in Slovenia. Now politics must understand this message, and somehow it must understand what they are trying to tell us. But you know, if I go a little bit towards the end, on the one hand we will be for digital nomads, but at the same time we will demand from foreign students mainly in the Western Balkans that 5,000 euros should be shown. In this scrutiny, you will require a digital nomad to have three times the Slovenian salary. What kind of president of the State Council is going to be slightly so right-wingly alluding to a "black live thing" that he kneels just before his wife and in front of God. Probably not a very deep Christian and Catholic as opposed to me, because it is some universal religion, and I will not talk about it because we live in secular society. But these are also some things that attract or refuse someone. If someone sees on Twitter just the Prime Minister or, indeed, the Secretary of State for National Security, they will think, but they will come to Slovenia or Estonia. Even if you're on your pennies and on my taxes in front of her, he'll probably say, "I'm not going to one of those round country," I'm sorry. These are some of the stories and challenges that are ahead of serious Slovenian politics, just like the Social Democrats, we want this intermezzo to slide into primitiveity, into the arrogance of looking at a country like some private espionage of one person as soon as possible, and then not to wrap our hands, but to wrap our brains. All digital solutions are basically first to understand some problems, to know where you have a narrow throat, where you could come, with what resources, what knowledge you have at home, which you need to look outside, how you will find capital, how you will multiply it all starts in your head and these algorithms are first made, then you throw them on paper or you throw them on a table. Programme something, buy, then some appropriate equipment, of course aware of the appropriate protection, because today, as one of the richest societies, we belong to our wars will be cyber wars. As a matter of fact, the way the Croats caught us with the American arbiter is the cyber war. [[Incomprehensible]] This comes in, then secondary, and that's the smaller problem. We will vote against it. But I hope we're soon faced with an opinion in this temple of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good-bye! We know how Mark Boris Andrijanic came to become a departmental minister in charge of digitisation. From the position of Uber lobbyist with Eastern Europe, he came to write a law that made it easier for Uber to come to Slovenia. Since lobbyists are writing us legislation, we have come to believe that the government of Janez Janša is directly appointing ministers. Why would we waste time with a local layer of politicians who issue social needs if corporate representatives can, which they themselves decide to amend legislation in accordance with their interests? Minister Andrijanic's candidate denied the thesis on the committee that he had helped write a law that paved the way for Uber in Slovenia. Okay, in Levica we don't believe in miraculous coincidences and random time coincidences by the public of the candidate for Minister and lobbyist Uber in one person, however everyone should create a judgment on their own. To us, the Uber example clearly shows what lies behind high-flying expressions of digitisation and debirocratisation. If Uber wanted to come to Slovenia long ago and compete against other transport providers, Uber sought instead to bypass the social, labour and transport legislation that would allow him to unfairly compete against other carriers such avoidance and lobbying against legal regulation is precisely the essence of Uber's business model and the reason why it is driven out by urban metropolises and entire countries instead of inviting him. The victim of this circumvention will be workers, taxi drivers, van drivers and others who survive transport, one of the most overrated professions in our country does not need a transition of the exploitative and captivating corporation, which will put additional pressure on drivers' organisation for their working and social rights. Precarisation, nationalism, global competition all wrapped in a nice word digitally. How can a corporate lobbyist be a candidate for a minister at the same time? Simply because it's a government for corporations. Finally, we will become a global periphery, Janša will fully relieve capital on the revenue side, the revenues will dry up, and the solidarity infrastructure and social security systems will collapse as a house of cards. We will become a state of luxury cars and endless species in front of Karitas, a country where they have the first and last word of foreign corporation. State of social stratification, state of infinite wealth differences. All of this on behalf of digitization, all of this is brought by Mark Boris Andrijanic. He's trying to convince us that he's going to find out about the digital transition. Where are you going? Let us take a look at some of the candidates' proposals for a digital break-in. Like improving digital literacy for all segments of the population. Pensioners would be taught the use of online browsers and would therefore collect public money, subsidies for companies that would use unemployed young people and volunteers for digital education. Digital literacy will not help pensioners who stand and continue to stand in line for the Red Cross, it will not help 97 000 pensioners living with incomes lower than the poverty risk threshold. Or by using technology to make health services more accessible. Pretty cynical. We don't have medical personnel. The infrastructure is collapsing. 130 thousand people don't have a personal doctor, they pay more and more, the pharmacy market opens up to foreign corporations, they literally steal from people with scratch premiums, for extra insurance from which they don't have anything. Insurance companies and private individuals are losing their hands, forming private health centers, and there is an accumulation of private capital on the health market. The government is collapsing the public treasury and is preparing legislation with which the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia will fully subordinate itself, but Mark Boris Andrijanic says that it does not matter because we will be able to contact the doctor via the application. Applications to be sold or handed over by a foreign corporation for oil money by the State. But if you don't have a doctor, you can't even contact him through the app. And if you don't have a doctor, it's hard to improve your access to him. A single mobile application for all forms of public transport and an e-personal card and an e-building permit and so on. This measure should not be difficult to implement, given that this government would suspend public transport and replace it with UBER and similar exploitative services that overwhelm the labour market and increase the exploitation of workers and workers. The objective is not really digitisation, but to facilitate the entry of foreign capital and foreign corporations into the Slovenian market. This will reduce the country's tax revenues, monopolize the market and reduce the country's role. This will increase prophylacticism, which means fewer labour rights, lower labour income, tight competition in the labour market, elimination of rights already acquired, etc. It's okay. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Can I ask the president to keep your colleagues quiet because it's really disturbing?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u23	Please, if you'll be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u24	This will result in the finalisation of both the largest social security, pension and health systems. Pensions already do not provide a safe age, and the pension register already receives a billion per year from the state budget. After the introduction of the social cap, the need for transfers from the budget will be even greater and the budget will no longer be able to do so after the introduction of the tax reform. As a response, the government will push the third pillar, various funds and savings talks more and more forward, while the pensioners will teach Google. It's even worse in the field of health. The reason for this is that there is room for manoeuvre for the development of the private health market. This government is actively doing this and has already done a lot, and the word digitisation is also a suitable cover for privatisation and liberalisation. The government wants a private, profit-oriented health practice and the government wants a public cash register that will act as a normal insurance company. Both will lead to the collapse of the system and the Americanization of health care. All in the name of digitization. No, it's not really about digitisation, it's about the final sale of everything in common. And a candidate embodying clearly drawn economic views that broaden the agenda of privatisation and the free market, which does not take into account the social aspects of these processes, will be an excellent assistant. It is not the first time that the most conservative forces are sneezing from the most advanced points of view. We hope that the media and other parties will be able to recognize the specific social and material effects, through the measures proposed by this Government, those collaborators who wanted such a sale 30 years ago, led by Peterlet and Jeffrey Sachs. Mark Boris Andrijanic, after this term, will have no difficulty finding a job. This problem will be faced by working people who will have only the opening of the p.p. and the slip into poverty. In one of the interviews, Mark Boris Andrijanic said: “As a child, I have read and dreamed a great deal about distant times and places. I wanted to be an adventurer who discovers new worlds by sea, land, and air. I also wanted to become a warlord, and then, of course, a rock star. After all, none of this has ever been realized, but the hope dies last, but the spirit of adventure still haunts me." (Final reference) He's probably never been this close to realizing his dreams. By appointing a minister, he would become a real Slovenian Chicago boy. He has already advised Sierra Leone's President, and with his advice Slovenia will certainly become the new Sierra Leone. And so that there is no mistake, of course, we need the digitisation of society. Of course, we need technological breakthroughs, progress, development, value-added jobs, but not ad hoc improvisation, as we have just witnessed it and not in a non-hygienic way, with lobbyists from foreign corporations. The appointment of Mr Andrijanic to a position that he will continue, under the gleam of digitisation, from decades-long-standing processes of “restraint” and avoidance of labour rights, so we will clearly and decisively oppose in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Mark Boris Andrijanic, Mr. Mark Boris Andrijanic, Mr. Secretary-General without a department responsible for digital transformation. Allow me first to inform the Slovenian public that at this meeting of the National Assembly, under this item on the agenda, we are considering a proposal for a candidate for a minister without a department responsible for digital transformation. We certainly do not speak or analyze fiction about the potential harm to Slovenian, very successful, staff of experts working abroad. We are also not talking about the fact that foreign capital coming to Slovenia is harmful because it is exactly the opposite and I am protesting against all those who think and claim that the Swiss government was run by a company called Lek. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, digitisation changes everything, everything really. It fundamentally changes the image of the economy, politics and society. The digital revolution brings new challenges and opens up new opportunities. Digitalisation enters all times of our lives, sets new demands and opens up completely new possibilities. Our goal is that Slovenia is on the side of the winners of the digital revolution and to take advantage of its opportunities for a development breakthrough. Today, we need only one business idea in order to significantly change the entire economic sector. Opportunities for new technologies, new products and new markets are growing enormously. The next important gap between successful and less successful countries starting to lose in the global economic competition will be precisely in the field of digitisation and the development of new technologies. The digital transformation of Slovenia must become our common strategic goal, which has exceeded certain internal political divisions. Slovenian policy must be aware of the challenges of time and form a third national consensus for the digital transformation of Slovenia if the first national consensus was plebiscite and the second national consensus of the referendum on Slovenia's entry into the EU and NATO. A digital rebirth is needed to create a global, digital and technological future. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, we had the privilege of having been on the committee responsible today, which held a discussion or so-called hearing of the candidate for minister. For a long time, we have not attended such an excellent presentation of the candidate for Minister and excellent knowledge of matter for which, if confirmed in the National Assembly, he will also be responsible. I thank all my fellow Members and colleagues for their constructive, rational and respectful debate on this competent committee. I am once again satisfied and am not afraid for the future of Slovenia in this area. In particular, Members have shown a lot of knowledge, a lot of competence in this area, and this gives me some courage. I submit that Slovenia has not had as many quality candidates as we have today for the horizontal coordination and promotion of the digital transformation of Slovenia for a long time. Never before, colleagues and colleagues, such a ministerial candidate, at least I don't remember getting such support from the profession, from Slovenians working abroad and, of course, from economic organisations. It inspires me with pride and courage. It is true that we were part of the 2004-2008 coalition, and we listened to the allegations that our then government had abolished the Ministry of Information Society. But, for the first time, this government, or then government, which shut down the Ministry of Information Society, has set up the E-service of the public administration VEM all in one place, and for the second time, has enabled the establishment of e-species and parts over the Internet in half an hour, the third time, to abolish the compulsory income forecast. These solutions were obtained, as you may recall, by some award of the United Nations. Can someone list the comparable achievements of the Ministry of Information Society? It's hard. The Government Act in the government's organisational scheme, Article 8, allows for the creation of another minister without a source. The government law provides the basis for the establishment of a government service for the digital transformation of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, if we take a look at the timeline of what was happening in Slovenia, as well as in Europe, in the field of digitisation. Let's take a look at Brussels first. On 19 May 2010, the European Commission published a Communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the Digital Agenda. Well, it's been 11 years since the European Digital Agenda was published. It is with great enthusiasm, I recall, the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso. At that time, we calculated that we would need an additional 3 000 600 ICT experts in Slovenia for the implementation of the digital agenda, as set out. Let's move on to the timeline. In September 2019, Nova Slovenija prepared a very resounding and media-friendly programme conference entitled Smart Slovenia September 2019. We said that, and I repeat this in my debate several times because you know that one who will not be digital will not be. Therefore, February 2021 was signed on 12 February by the Recovery and Resistance Instrument Regulation. Every bad thing brings something good. The Covid-19 epidemic is a bad thing. It revealed, and it solved all the bad solutions in our subsystems yesterday we found in health, education and so on all social systems, and thank God the European leaders agreed on this tool for recovery and resilience. On 1 July this year, the European Commission approved a 2 billion-and-a-half-euro recovery and resistance plan for Slovenia 14 days ago. The European Commission has made a positive assessment of Slovenia's recovery and resilience plan, which is the basis for the disbursement of €1.8 billion in grants and €705 million of loans to be transferred by the European Union to Slovenia under the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. These funds will support the implementation of key investment and reform measures under the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan. This will allow Slovenia to be stronger when leaving the Covid-19 pandemic. It is up to all of us, in Slovenian politics, to make the most of these funds as rational and effective as possible. The Commission notes that in the European Plan 21% of the total allocations are earmarked for actions supporting the digital transition between them include efforts to digitise public administrations, investments in connectivity and digital skills and digitisation of businesses. Several times, however, allow me to repeat some three months ago the Slovenian Government established the Strategic Council for Digitalisation. I am extremely pleased and in New Slovenia we are extremely pleased that the best Slovenian experts who work at home in Slovenia and also those who work abroad are mainly what I mean here are those who work abroad and have bills for the circulation of the brain. [[…]] We have a lot to do in this country, and this is what we talked about on the committee responsible today about how to attract back Slovenian experts with the experience and knowledge they gain abroad to create here at home. There was only one solution, which is tax or income stimulation. I am pleased to have many of our experts abroad, I repeat, that they will come home once again or perhaps work abroad for Slovenia, so for their country people who not only have a powerfully entrenched brain but also have a great heart. From this city let me sincerely thank all the members of this team 47 and more experts who make up the Strategic Council for digitisation. What they have done and will do will remain in Slovenia. Yes, even after this government has completed its term of office. This is the currency that will remain in Slovenia. And really, thank you all very much. When I took a quick walk through the timeline and cut some important stages or steps in digitisation of Slovenia and Europe, then, colleagues and colleagues, on this time series, as a logical step, today's election or appointment of a minister who will coordinate and accelerate digitalisation or digital transformation of our country and our country. Members and Members of New Slovenia will give him support today and we wish him much success. This will be a success for our country, the results that all citizens and citizens will enjoy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a candidate for a minister. The first one has the word Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will bring back the memory of last Monday of what we expected or what citizens would expect after the Sunday referendum earthquake. One minister would be less expected or perhaps even less, that would be somehow logical, that would be logical. But of course there is no drama, said the Prime Minister and added another minister. So after this series of earthquakes after the Sunday earthquake, Prime Minister Janez Janša wants to create the impression that everything is okay, that everything is running normally. And the government will have another minister. And now he's setting up a job, a government service with a minister, he's setting up, I say, because today you're going to confirm the minister here, because he doesn't even have this job, this job hasn't been set up yet. On the other hand, there is a Demography Office, which is also headed by a minister, but there is no minister, there is no minister, and there is no minister, and there will be a minister, and there is no job. I mean, it's all a mess, but it doesn't matter, even if it ends up being drooling with these ministers, maybe there'll be too many without a ticket at the end, it's important that the impression is that everything's okay. And we are establishing, setting up a ministry, we say briefly, for digitisation, although, and this is not irrelevant, of course, it is irrelevant, and it must be repeated that the very government under the direction of Janez Janša, Ministry of Information Society, established in 2000, in 2004, abolished this Ministry of Information Society, which, of course, over the past 15 years could carry out a number of tasks in the field of digitisation, was disbanded because of the tighter public administration, due to the tighter public administration. And as of April this year, I think, if I recall correctly, the Prime Minister has also spoken of a stronger public administration and will also be assisted by a strategic digitalisation council. And then this forecast led, and the announcement of a more tighter public administration then led, look, to the establishment of a new ministry. The candidate for minister belongs to the quota of New Slovenia. I read this in some media to him in the parliamentary group until they knew that he would be a candidate for minister, they didn't even know, so I saw in the media, and then Janez Janša told me that he would be their minister and that they also met him at the presentation for the first time. That is why we can somehow take this as compensation after Nova Slovenije has lost the President of the National Assembly. I also noticed one interesting, I don't know, interesting indication of some of these new politicians in New Slovenia that these new guys in New Slovenia are not even interested in lobbying, that they are interested in capital interests. Now, you won't want to get rid of this seal, which has already been pressed in public, that is, the lobbyist of UBER, so not any lobbyist, but the lobbyist of UBER, who his infrastructure colleague is so eager to bring to Slovenia, if it's one of the extra digitalisations. And what's more beautiful, then everything counts from a client friend and interests cover themselves. Now, as it is supposed to be, if a type of minister is confirmed, which, of course, for the very relationship and efficiency of the government is usually never good, and if, of course, it works the way the strategic council works with the Prime Minister or the government, it will, of course, be over the minister who will literally lead the remaining resources, at least in the field of digitisation. Indeed, the Strategic Digitalisation Council has not aligned itself with anyone when preparing this package of measures with anyone within government departments, and this would be practically necessary under the Government's Rules of Procedure and none of this is cross-cutting and no legal basis has been verified. So when, of course, we asked the candidates for the Minister in hiring today what the time dimensions of the implementation of these 40 and a few measures are, of course, very optimistic that this will all be realistic by March next year, which, of course, I am sure, is very much doubtful by the founders of these measures themselves. And, of course, even when we have the principle of financing, we have not received a clear answer. Now these European funds will not just start running tomorrow. It is hard to get rid of the impression that if any of these measures are to begin to take place, that some money will have to be taken away and will probably be taken away by the Ministry of Public Administration, SMC, because this ministry is now somehow the custodian of digitisation in this country. In any case, when we look at the list of these measures, it is a very market-oriented approach to digitisation. We will do everything with applications, apps cost, of course, and businesses that will receive will experience this wealth to work, perhaps in a wide range of areas already known. Some of the things on this list are also the discovery of warm water, because there already exist, solutions already exist. Let's say applications for baby supplements, once you pass them on, and of course you don't have to invest any more. Well, it already exists, and on this list, the hook is already made. For example, building permits are, of course, more important than anything else, how quickly a person is allowed to do construction work, how quickly. It is already okay if you can see the status of your role remotely, but it is especially important whether these measures reduce the time taken to obtain a building permit. And he is also a critic at the expense of some of the measures on this list, so that more organisations and businesses can be enthusiastic about this. But there are, of course, critics. So it's ironic that the candidate has now interpreted a vision of digitisation, a programme that, of course, is not viable in these few months, as far as it will be in this place. Therefore, the establishment of the Ministry itself is, of course, a mere release of fog and the concealment of all these severe defeats of the government and the ruling coalition and actions of the impression that things are going smoothly. The government is not credible, this has been seen mainly since the event in this House this week. In particular, there is no support for the people and there is no support for Members. He does not have the support of Members if it comes into the situation that members of the coalition vote against its laws, then he does not have the support of Members. Of course, we will vote against the appointment of this Minister in the List of Marjan Šarc for all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Aleksander Reberšek, prepare Ms Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In Novi Slovenije we presented our vision of digitisation under the title Nova Slovenije for the digital breakthrough of Slovenia. We have already warned that Slovenia is in the global game. In the field of digitisation, most European countries are lagging behind. The DESI index of the European Commission ranks us, beware, only 16th place among the Member States, which is below the average of the European Union. Therefore, I am very happy and proud that what we say is in a position to do so even when we have scissors and linen in our hands. However, I am also pleased that many organisations have supported the early implementation of the measures taken by the Strategic Council for Digitalisation and by 32 prominent organisations in our country. 32 respected organizations in our country. Digitalisation is becoming the national priority of this government and a project that will connect society as a whole. Digitalisation cannot be left or right. Digitalisation is a matter of society as a whole, it is a matter of our common future and it is a matter of development. We can have different views, but here we just have to unify ourselves. Digitalisation must be the interest of all citizens, left, right, middle, all. If we don't start today, we're just gonna fall behind even more. And every year more than 15,000 people move out of this country. This is more than the inhabitants of Vrhnika or Postojna. The main problem is not that young people go abroad for new experiences. The main problem is that these young people do not return to their homeland. Every week when we delay these people, we lose them, young people, educated people, in which we have invested enormously. I therefore support measures in the field of digitisation to improve the standard of our citizens for users, for our citizens, for our taxpayers. We have heard that solutions are coming in many areas, e-building permission, faster, simpler and more transparent to the building permit, the tax breaker, this means automatic payment of tax and other obligations to the country, information calculation of children's allowances – great for all parents saving time, e-health app, easier and easier to get to a doctor, the Center to help Slovenian experts return to their homeland, turn brain escape into brain circulation. All that young people who are educated come back to their homeland. The digital voucher, digital skills, for all generations and the first step is the establishment of the responsible person, authority, leader who will take care of this digital realization. The question that is actually being asked to every citizen is, of course, why, but indeed, why, the current opposition sees all bad in everything really good. Is the problem with us and not you? I suppose that's true. I know it's hard to fight the argument that someone came back to a good job, to a good salary. It is very difficult to fight this, but in New Slovenia we are not just doing something to bring political points, but we are doing it because we believe it is right and believe that we need digitisation in our country. We're also laying the foundation. Yesterday, too, we laid one foundation, namely, as regards investment, a ten-year investment in health care, where we will devote a poor two billion to our hospitals, to our health care, and one foundation will be laid today, this will be a commitment to all future governments. Similar government services or ministries also have other countries with which we like to compare ourselves, Austria, Italy, Great Britain, even Japan. It's just that we're always digging in the back and always late. Why is that? And this government has a responsibility, of course, and we should have started this decades ago, period. The fact that we are establishing such a ministry speaks more of us than of you, who, of course, oppose it. I understand the opposition has failed to support the candidate for minister. Above all, it will not support it because we already have a successful trio in Nova Slovenija and this trio is doing really well, it has something to show in its very short time, and today the minister without a digitisation card will join today, and now we will have a quartet, a quartet that will breathe for Slovenia, I am sure of that. Because of the quality and content of the Christian Democrats, we are proud to offer this city to someone who has also welcomed and respected people who are not calculus, because by the end of the term it is, as you can see, less than a year and because they have left their successful business trip abroad to help the country. And all I want to say is, Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic, answer our citizens and the opposition with action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, preparing Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Well, when I listened with interest this morning to Mr Andrijanic's presentation, i.e. the candidate for a minister without a department responsible for digital transformation, I was thinking in fact, as young as young, especially young politicians, about this as high as the minister and with so many rich experiences. On my part, I really appreciate the excellent presentation and I will be happy to vote in favour of its ministry. As we have heard, Mr Andrijanic has successfully led the Strategic Council in recent months, with 47 exceptional experts who have already prepared and presented 40 solutions in June to improve digitisation and the aim of the candidate for Minister is to implement as many of these common solutions as possible. Let me only point out some of which the candidate himself presented at the presentation. For example, in the field of public administration, he highlighted an electronic building permit and an informational calculation of child allowances. Then, especially in the area of health care, we have long been interested in this e-care of the elderly, so that the elderly can stay as long as possible because of this e-care and will be monitored all the time. If anyone falls or anything, an alarm goes off immediately and the old man goes home to check himself out. Then the e-health and e-procurement portal. In health care it is certainly necessary, very necessary, to improve electronic services. I have also listened with interest to economic solutions, which are indeed very burdensome for entrepreneurs to report this varied reporting to different authorities with different reports, so the measure has presented a single reporting measure to the State, then e-services, e-notary services and tax incentives for professionals returning to Slovenia. We have a problem and this is also highlighted by young people who are very going abroad and if this is one way to get them home I am certainly happy to take advantage of it. The introduction of a digital e-learning voucher is also very interesting in the field of education. As we know, the vouchers so far are going to be very good for people, and so all citizens will have the opportunity to digital education in particular, so that citizens will be trained for the skills they will need, then by working with the country, and, which is very important, and I have also said several times that it is missing in primary schools that is computer science and computer science. Now that the children had a distance lesson, we could see that they did not somehow lack or lack basic computer skills. This is certainly one way to improve digitality. Young people need to be started and, of course, older ones need to be taught. What else would you add? Mr Andrijanic has been seen in various articles, and he has called on politics to cooperate and overcome divisions in the past and today. Also more of his supporters and experts from the Strategic Council, we have also received some letters of support where these young experts invite us to unite once and somehow, regardless of opposition and coalition, to support a candidate who is an expert. Personally too, I want this to continue throughout my term of office so that we can act constructively and therefore be able to unify ourselves together, to step at least on the most important topics for the country and our citizens and digitisation is certainly one of the most important themes. It is true, as the candidate for a minister said in his presentation, that digitisation is one of the key areas to become a modern and successful country in which all generations can take advantage of their talents. So there's a special opportunity here for young people who, as I said, regrettably go abroad too often and rarely come back. Mr. Andrian is fortunate, so let's give him this chance. All of us are usually full of mouths, let's give young people a chance, but when we have a young, ambitious candidate in the opposition, unfortunately, you are looking for different excuses why you won't support him. It's not personal, you're a very good candidate, but we won't support you, sadly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Janja Sluga, prepare the mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u34	Yeah, I agree that it's sad more than I agree with. Sad to say, as you pull the ace out of your hand, when you try, of course, to mix the fog with the smoke screen and cover up what is happening to you, it's really sad, because then we're talking exactly what we're talking about today. You are an ugly opposition against digitisation, and you are an ugly opposition against an excellent candidate. In our position, the unconnected Members have made it very clear that it is far from opposing digitisation, far from that. We support it as one of the priorities, but it is extremely unrealistic to give digitisation 6 months, extremely unrealistic and therefore we are against it. We are not against digitisation. We are against this unresistance, which alone aims to control 2 billion European money and by hand by the Prime Minister of the Government. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Your time's up. The next debater is mag. Dean Kaloh, get ready for mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u36	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Now, already in the hiring, which I also attended today, we have listened to the mantra that we have a candidate for a minister who can only work for ten months until the next regular elections. Now, I must tell you, my respectable opposition colleague, that this government is not going anywhere, so there is no need to be extra concerned, nor do I think that due to good work it will continue its work after the next national elections. So that this concern that a respected candidate would not be able to do the tasks that he has given in the next ten months is really far too much. Now, let me say that at the end of June with Mr Andrijancič, I visited the high-tech firm in Maribor, SkyLabs, where he works ten plus doctors of science, where they are highly qualified for space technology and I am really glad that such breakthroughs are also in my native Maribor. And as the candidate said, of course this digitisation will be carried out throughout Slovenia and there will be little enrollment, as Dr. Trček says, and much work will be done as well. Now, Slovenia is actually lagging behind in the field of digital transformation. It is lagging behind European countries and therefore the establishment of this ministry is more than necessary in my opinion. This will not only raise the level of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so the economic environment will improve, red tape will be reduced, of course the health sector will also be able to offer better quality care and so on. Let me also point out a better, faster treatment in the justice system, where it is also, I would still say some cancer of Slovenian society. As has been said, it is a new government service, where, of course, the minister without a charter will coordinate the existing ministries, here I see this interlinking role, as I have said to the economies, public administrations, virtually all social subsystems. And what is important is that, in the cut of the funds we will receive from the European Union, these funds will be available already this year, which I think is crucial, of course, without the money we can work. Now, if I refer a little more to these professional experiences of the candidate, but here we were all united, thank God at least for something, both in the coalition and in the opposition, that it is a candidate who actually has a lot of experience at his 38 years of age, so this international experience, where I say that in this Slovenian environment someone is sometimes lacking, because still people who have worked abroad open up a certain complement of dawn angles, the width of the problem in Slovenia, and I think it is even easier to do good with these skills. Indeed, the candidate is a quality, precise, professional, multi-layered, detailed circle of all these areas, which are addressed by digital transformation, and I think that here, respected colleagues from the opposition are not a field of political accounting, political conflict, generating some new differences on the subject of digitisation, as we all probably want Slovenia to become a successful country in this area too. Here is the ideal opportunity to again, as we have somehow united ourselves in the necessity of vaccination against covidu-19, that we are also here trying to connect the entire Slovenian society and take a step behind this different one, I would say the political limitations that sometimes put us too much pressure on both shores. Now, as the candidate has said, he has responded satisfactorily to all the questions you have also had in the opposition, one less, the other more important and Mr Andrijanic of course has the single support of our parliamentary group, and I firmly believe that he will be elected today and that, with the start of this youth, he has worked for the good of our country of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. Look, with everything that's going on, I can't get rid of the feeling that it's actually going as fast as we've seen it, so overnight the proposal to appoint a new minister without a license, responsible for digitisation, in some way for some smoke screen, as we have seen in the last day, the government of Janez Janša started to undermine things one after the other, as the house of cards breaks down, namely, on Sunday the entire coalition suffered a great defeat against the united people at the referendum, where more than two thirds of citizens and citizens have said that the Water Act, which you've strongly supported, is inappropriate, and said that they want some public good, not people working for the interests of capital, for the interests of lobbyists and so on. Therefore, with respect and respect, the Prime Minister decided overnight to divert attention and to propose to the Minister for Digitalisation, even though he had always said that the Strategic Council had been set up to do so and that the Minister for this area as such was not needed. In doing so, I do not know whether it has already been said today that the powers are not clearly shared between Minister Koritnik, the Minister of Public Administration and this new Minister without a licence, and I am surprised that the SMC party and, in particular, the Minister of the User, whom I have in some way valued, despite not being informed of the action of the Prime Minister, this human resources move does not seem to bother him to agree. After all, it's obvious to him that he may still be a minister for a few months, but you know. And I absolutely agree that digitisation is and must be one of the priorities. The Prime Minister also spoke about this. But it's true, I'm a little surprised. On the one hand, it says that it is a priority for the minister to be accommodated because of the recovery and resistance plan, and on the other hand, the figures show that in the Republic of Slovenia, we have committed the minimum amount of money, the minimum minimum set by the European Union, from the recovery and resistance programme. The European Union states that 20% should be allocated within this programme for this area, we have earmarked 21%, a minimum. And here something doesn't go together. It is a priority, a nice word, a sound, digitisation must be a priority, a future and a blah blah, and on the other hand you have committed the smallest share of money or 1% more for this area than is the minimum, which Europe requires. Now, we've heard a lot about competence today, about how young, capable man is. It is, because it is difficult to say that he is not capable, but a neoliberal who has worked abroad in corporations and so on, it is a fact, but respected and respected, but I must admit that some “Americans”, in narrations, have also not discovered today at the hearing, but you know. He talked about things that already exist in Slovenia and are taking place, such as ICT for the elderly. We will introduce ICT for the elderly, we will work in this area. After all, our Minister, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, has introduced or allocated funds from European money. He talked about this medicine, about e-health, about the need to introduce ICT into primary schools. But you know, these are things that have been dragging for decades and exist, ICTs in primary schools, for example. Many projects have dealt with these issues from previous and previous perspectives. So yes, because he can speak beautifully, and I believe that a lot of people have a good idea, but I would expect some more concrete and innovative ideas. But I'm saying, here I think we're all aware that it's not some serious desire for things to change, that is, governments are counting days anyway. At best, the government will be operational for another 6 months, and it is somewhat ridiculous to expect the government to start withdrawing certain ministers, the government is proposing to appoint new ministers. But as we are told, she did so to divert attention from the great defeat of the people at the referendum, as we know yesterday she experienced a redouble defeat or a tactical withdrawal in the National Demographic Fund, where it was always said that this was a great thing and how urgently this matter must be adopted and in the anti-constitutional law on communicable diseases. You're afraid of the people, you're afraid of parliament after all. I don't know whose government it is if, after all, you don't hope to face your own parliament. And today, colleagues and colleagues, the matter will end similarly, 3-0. It is high time, in short, that this government withdraws, that we go to the elections and then start talking in some normal situation about the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić, Ms Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Whatever we look at is a fact that it is undeniable that this government is losing ground under its feet. All these actions are desperate actions. They listed here several times the referendum will of the people, who told the corporations not. And the withdrawal of the demographic fund and the anti-constitutional law on communicable diseases, we have not seen in Parliament that it is precisely those who are passionately advocating something that are no longer advocating what means that you are led to Joyce from one and only command. I mean, here it is, then, concerned about how credible such a group is, either the Members who are independent under the Constitution. In short, we have a long way ahead of us listening to some evil stories about digitisation and green breakthroughs. And if we look under these shiny headlines, which are a total pear action, which some so passionately advocate, even with a slogan, I believe, most of the time in a lie. People don't believe these lies anymore and no slogan I believe is helping you, although of course Janez Janša richly rewards loyalty, very richly. And here, of course, we get to privatised education, RDC contributions and the like. In short, richly rewarded also human resources. Some think that these good jobs and wages will actually last forever. For if we really shared the fate of the citizens, we would probably have made a different decision. And we wouldn't run some lobbyists who write Uber's laws, and you know very well that Uber has been banished from many European cities because of a violation of workers' rights, and we are still neoliberally moving away from lobbyists. Now, of course, it's not a function problem and the Ministry of Digitalisation. The problem is where you find these people. Where do you find a frame like this? I mean, if the Minister of Justice could be someone who owned a straw company and was constantly walking on the edge of the law is the Minister of Justice, now you bring a lobbyist to work on the digitisation of Slovenia. Yeah, he's obviously capable. I also remember that Nova Slovenija brought Bajuk, which was perhaps the first time in Slovenia and did not know exactly where he came from. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] So why are we lagging behind in the information society? I see you're jumping at the mention of Bayuk. And I'm going to say, when he was at the Gorjanci in Badovinac Inn, where we joked that the border was so bad that this country was working with the Belokrans, the legendary director of Kovačič Krka told him that he was on the border and your Bajuk actually dragged the passover out and said to him, "E, my Bajuk, I'm going to take you around once to see what you're the president of. So anecdotal. Where do you find these frames? And you don't think that in Slovenia young people leave the country because, as you say, it's not enough, I don't know, neoliberalism and lower taxes. They're leaving because the climate is desperate, and who creates this climate, and we know it. Why are we lagging behind in digitization? We already had the Ministry of Information Society in Slovenia. We had it between 2000 and 2004. Where did the Ministry of Digitalization go? Yes, it was abolished by Janša's first government and we lost 17 years and we lost quality young people and we lost experts and we lost human potential and we lost all of that to you now, in 2021, with a big solution how you will digitize Slovenia. No, he didn't convince you at the hearing, your candidate. He talked about things that have been rolling in Slovenia for 15 years and are being talked about, but, of course, operationally, we think that things need to be treated completely differently, especially in terms of the welfare of citizens. A cadre that comes when we get European millions or billions and where we share them, you know, it worries me deeply, strongly, deeply. And here, last Sunday, people showed that they can't be squeezed indefinitely. How far can you squeeze people and you too will not be eternally privileged, even though you think you will and so you will act, but lobbyist interests do not arouse confidence and cause credibility, you know, and the flags we listen to, but no one will buy them anymore. So we will be firm against the lobbyist and the minister, who we cannot trust, and we do not believe in doing anything good for Slovenia, but especially for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Iva Dimic, get ready for mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u42	Thank you very much. There is a need to say that it will not celebrate everything that the opposition may say, how and what is necessary, but see, as the president of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, in the last year, I have been quite a few gatherings of opposition meetings which have shown that in Slovenia it is not possible to teach further quality and I agree with this, because we do not have an evenly developed, both urban and rural, no access to information technology, no enough computers, no enough internet connections. Look, that was your point. Now that we are instituting, as we confirm today, I will say, the Minister without a charter, who has international experience with internationally recognized, I will say, diplomas and, of course, also knowledge of digitisation, are clearly contradictory. Slovenia needs a breakthrough in this area if we are to step in with time, in step with what other countries are doing. My friend Jože mentioned and counted, smart Slovenia, smart digitisation. This, I will say, will be talked about in the next ten years and countries will certainly develop in this area. What matters to me is that if I listened, I really listened to those words of yours, that we don't need digitisation to be able to carry out itself, because we're going to do it ourselves. [[…]] The candidate for Minister without a ticket, Mark Boris Andrijanic, is, of course, our mountain list, our mountain list and we will do it ourselves, we will not be “outsorce-al”, maybe anyone wants to “outsource-at”, but, here, with our knowledge, of course, we will be able to write our own story, a successful story, and I really don’t understand why you are on the other hand reading how Slovenia is unprepared, but I don’t know what, when we say, Slovenia will prepare, but you will find a thousand and one excuse and, of course, what has already happened today, see, because we have nothing against you, nothing against your competences, but, we will not support you. It's just a lie and a hoax. Transposition. This, yes, now, foreign companies will have an impact on Slovenia. I don't know why we had one appointment one month ago when a foreign company decided to withdraw from Slovenia. I really don't understand this opposition contradiction. Look, Jure Leskovec, Professor Jura Leskovc. The greatest expert in artificial intelligence. This is also acknowledged by those who have placed a tracker with us in Slovenia. For three years now, in Slovenia, he has not received any habilitation so that he can teach the subject of artificial intelligence at our universities, state universities. He hasn't gotten three years. And now who's talking about sending young people into the world so they can't come back? Who won't let them? Come on. Just one hoax. And there's one more thing. When I am a member of an international group, I am also sitting on my right hand, Vojko Starović, as well as Alenka Jeraj, when we visited Lisbon, we received this at the same time and I am very grateful that we had the opportunity to enter one of the private clinics in Lisbon, where they actually have digitisation in the field of health. That's the advantage. We're still, I can say a few years behind them. They have a smart room in the clinic where they can watch, if they fall, everything is detected, because they have virtually no burden on people with various devices, with floor-to-floor transitions, and so on, they have a robot that they joke about what they have to bring in, and this one brings them from the warehouse, brings them between rooms. I mean, we've been behind them for a few years. See, digitalisation also brings health benefits, and we need it, and we need to keep pace with time. Portugal, Lisbon is a few years ahead. It's time to follow her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich has his word, Mr. Franz Breznik is being prepared. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know. Excuse me? Who wants something? Replica. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u44	Yes, thank you very much. Indirectly, I felt challenged when Mrs Dimic spoke about the problem, the real problem at the time of schooling away, that in the opposition we had warned that in Slovenia there was a shortage of computers for distance learning and internet connections, as you said at certain ends, and that this was why the distance learning was threatened. Mrs Dimic, I agree with this and we have warned about this, and this situation has been truly exceptional, this long-distance learning and I think it has also been taking a long, long time. But now if I make a little joke, I'm really paraphrasing what you said in some way, then we're going to get the Minister responsible for purchasing computers and covering gray foxes where there are no internet connections. My friend Prednik is pleased to say that there are still a lot of these gray foxes in Koroška, but I don't know if we really need a minister to do this. Above all, we would need country priorities, priorities and financial resources to do so. That's what I think is crucial. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Now to have a minister for this, but I don't think that, especially once again, it's a smoke screen when Janez Janša wants to divert attention. Let's talk about these things after the elections, and let's do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrei Reich, prepare as the next Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u46	Nice greetings for me, too. We have made it clear that we do not support the Minister because we do not support this government and because this government has been given an untrustworthy statement by the Slovenian people at a recent referendum with a large referendum majority. And it seems to us, I will say indirectly to the Slovenian people, that one year before the elections, less than, that is, ten months before the elections with such a lack of confidence in the city, the government is planning to set up a new ministry or a charterless department. In the very presentation of the candidate for minister there are quite a few such incompatibilities, likeness. True, he led a strategic world that was for digitisation, which is essentially one group that functioned or operates on a voluntary basis. I personally believe that matters and decisions that are important for future digital development must be created by a professional team and that this cannot be the subject of one volunteerism or, in essence, voluntary work in the afternoon, as long as someone has afternoon time, because it is also not clear what the obligations to whom the results of the work of such a group must be. Several things have also drawn my attention to the fact that in fact the presentation took place in a way that the digitisation of the Slovenian company will take place through applications so that the main development of digitisation represents the development of various applications this is essentially one very different thing, but this does not constitute some kind of development breakthrough. Something like this is currently happening to us in the field of electricity, which has not been specifically highlighted by the candidate for a minister, even though it will require €50 billion of inputs in the coming years, in the coming decades, where we will say smart counters, and we will say that the incassant is no longer coming to manually describe electricity consumption by doing nothing because we have online applications for this. Unfortunately, this is currently the only achievement resulting from this and at such a level also represents the measures it will implement. One of these, for example, is an e-building permit. The main problem with long-term construction permit procedures is essentially unregulated municipal land, and I will say long-term procedures for obtaining all consent. So if we want to speed up construction procedures, then we need to make sure that construction is possible exclusively on municipally managed land, otherwise this application will only be in fact a single application, by which e-mail can deliver a building permit and there will be no substantive movement. He's also talking about e-supplying remotely. This, of course, is one of the futures that I will have to say unconditionally support. Here, I would very much like to remind my colleagues from the coalition that when the previous Minister was doing this before I will say a pilot project where two or three thousand providers had one such telemedicine at home, you made fun of it and today you are making fun of it as one of the priorities so it is important to be consistent and that what is said in the opposition, that it is also said in the coalition, and that I will say that certain matters do not change. So today we already have an electronic calculation of the children's allowance, which only means that the candidate for the minister has something in mind. With regard to attracting experts, of course, I agree that it is necessary to attract that necessary environment to be created, but we must be aware of what it is that will attract an expert to Slovenia, so that he can live here normally, so that after paying the rent, the kindergarten will remain some money so that he can go on vacation or put something aside. That's what we need to create. On the other hand, he dropped one very important issue: the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for all these changes. He also avoided the transport sector, and in this light we also pointed out that it was a candidate who wanted to bring the Uber Corporation to Slovenia, and if this happened, of course, the Slovenian taxi drivers would have had an unrealistic competition and a marked deterioration in the working conditions for them, and we are talking about those taxi drivers who had just passed Sunday, unlike multinationals, who showed that they had a great heart and unselfishly helped the pensioners who had been disabled by the mail vote, in a way that allowed them to travel free of charge to voters. These are, however, one reason why we will not support the candidate together and, in fact, have substantive and principled reasons, fundamental reasons for not supporting this Government, because the voters at the recent referendum have shown their support for the non-support of this Government and for all these substantive reasons. The hall is beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Reberšek has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Member Andrei Reich! Don't talk to me about the results of the referendum on water, and let the government back down. You, together with the KUL opposition, proposed Karl Erjavac as Prime Minister, who received 300 votes in the elections. All clear?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Reberšek. That wasn't a replica, because in your debate, you weren't talking about Karl Erjavac. So let's stick to the replica. Mag. Andrej Reich, I hope that there will indeed be a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u50	I have a procedural proposal that you remind your candidate, Comrade Rebersk, that if you deny a candidate who has run for office in the parliamentary elections to a candidate for the President of the Government, then to someone who has not run at all, you also deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u51	Mag. Reich was also not a procedural proposal, and I, as I warned Mr Rebersk, am also warning you not to abuse these institutions in the future, but I hope that this will work for once. Mr Franz Breznik has the following word, Mr Blaž Pavlin is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u52	Thank you very much. So I'd kind of modestly like to go back to at least one part of the debate and take another look at the time and place before us that opens up to the Slovenes and Slovenes, you could say an incredible opportunity. From the beginning of my life here in this Parliament, for almost ten years this year, I have been saying that there is a time coming when we can gather some common consensus, when we can find a common goal as a country where Slovenia can fertilize into some completely different waters and get some space under the sun that comes to it. For a long time I have been thinking about what this space is, what it is, where it would be a possible run-in point and maybe eight years ago I came up with this idea that perhaps through a high technological breakthrough, which is the only stability of one country and the best social policy of one country, and I think you agree with all colleagues who have discussed before me that the knowledge of Slovenians and Slovenes and the country is one of the most important attributes of all of us as Slovenia, as well as of the country, and especially of a beautiful nature only for high technologies that do not burden the environment, we can keep Slovenia green and, on the other hand, social. I think it could be a common positive theme for all of us. More than once, politics explains that new faces, unburdened, with international experience, should come into politics. The candidate who introduced himself to us today, look, he's such a candidate. I also see in it maybe one part of myself, even though I'm a decade older, that some of you are making fun of him here today, for example, saying that this is going to be one of those, that this is going to be some sort of salad mortal or some story after some failed referendum that I have to admit that we haven't even taken it seriously in the coalition, in truth, and that's why we haven't even dealt with it. Now, actually, I would like to say that digitisation as such, at this time we mark 50 years from Kara, Intel presented his first processor, Intel 4004, and after it came the so-called third industrial revolution, which completely changed the world, customs and that was also the largest stone to the then communist countries, the former Soviet Union and its satellites. As Roland Reagan said in 1984 in his doctrine “War of the evil Empire”, we will absorb this doctrine and the first point of this doctrine was the ban on the sale of microprocessors to all communist countries and their satellites. This was one of the biggest impacts because all the countries in the Western world, due to microprocessors, had a strong robotic production, thus, of course, increasing efficiency and, above all, the productivity of companies, there was less labour, there was less work sickness or those occupational diseases, there was more quality, efficiency and everything else that I came up with. What's happening now and what I've been warning them for years and years is that for the country, when we even put it 30 years ago, the greatest danger was precisely the bureaucracy of this country, many institutions, confusion, alienation, and, above all, part of monopolies. The one I thought was the most important that many people didn't recognize was the monopoly in the education system. Yesterday we had this beautiful idea of how you see education. A few days ago, I looked at most of the Nobel Prize winners, where they were educated, at what institutes. I came to a conclusion, mostly in private school. And where does most young people run to where they dream of coming? Private colleges, mostly abroad. I know when I was a kid, they asked me once at school, I could point out with my finger, where the highly developed socialist countries were there one year in 1982, 1983 in elementary school. And then he had to show himself where the countries of so-called exploitative capitalism are on the map of Europe. The next word I asked the teacher why all my cousins were fleeing to Austria, Germany, Italy and why no one from Switzerland, Austria, Germany would return to this pearl of Yugoslavia, a Communist pearl. That was the first reminder I received in elementary school. Then my father had to come to school and so on. But I want to say that when I listen to some debates, and I will not now name them, I see a similar mentality, as it did at the time, how to keep the monopolies, how to think in a hard drive, in a box, and not make some radical changes in this society, which can bring a lot of positive, burdening the lives of citizens and citizens, are doing a better business environment and why Slovenia can gain incredibly much over the coming years. My goal as a policy was that if I stayed in politics for a decade or more, our final goal must be to ensure that Slovenia has a gross social product of EUR 100 billion, 100 billion. And to do that, we need a common consensus for this plan. And the joint consensus within the framework of the breakthrough has just begun its march. All those who oppose this are throwing pollen, see, I take you as technological crazies, as technological crazies, who you do not understand where the world is going, where this progress is going, and you do not understand the space and time in which we live. The struggle of Europe, Western civilizations with all their human rights, which you so like to talk about, against China, which is totally exploiting and technology, this mistake that was made by the socialist state in 1984, when Reagan began his campaign, has learned something from this mistake. Today China is highly technologically developed, because it has 2,000 universities and 70% of graduates study in the natural science and engineering system, 70%. From here there is this difference and in 15 years this difference was due to this. And the panic that reigns in Europe, in America, look, it's because of that. And when I spoke years ago about what Europe would go into if it wanted to survive, some of you, of course, laughed, that's not so important, and that's the last big point of Western civilization, if it wants to survive, in this Fourth Industrial Revolution, it has to regain those elements on which it has always excelled in the 1st Industrial Revolution, 2nd and 3. And so the candidate who introduced himself, look, for me, this is a candidate who is an unburdened candidate who has good international experience, who is an optimist who is connected and who understands the space and time in which we live. Horizontal connection. If these systems aren't compatible, if they don't work together, if we don't go in the direction of successful approximation, as we like to say, those who have ever passed a digital exam, then look, digitisation may also be unsuccessful in one country. That's why it's so necessary. Now, this maneuver you've been talking about today that the Prime Minister made it because of a fiasco is completely not wrong. You are following our path, you are following the path of a colleague from New Slovenia, they have now presented the digitisation of SDS, SMC, look at my speech I had when we were in the opposition, at the SMC Congress, and I said that in the future we will have to connect on common economic points. I think it was four years ago, and I said congratulations to them, because they started a big digitalisation campaign and what some of you said before, and congratulations once again, and I also have to congratulate my former colleague on his achievement back then. Even though I gave him a lot of things wrong, that was one achievement. And also this part of the coalition, see, was created by just one big joint point. This is digitisation, a breakthrough for Slovenia and most of these colleagues understood this. Not to mention the digital resolution to which I was co-author, it fell, okay, I had some concerns, you could have fixed it then, you didn't want it because you kind of despised it, put it in the drawer. What I'd like to do is just because I don't have enough time, and I'd like to get it over with. See, it is essential if we want to have a minister, I have made a proposal, we have put forward a proposal in the SDS in January month, we urgently need to set up a working body here for the Committee on Digital and Green Transformation of Slovenia. Once again, I hope he hears the President of the National Assembly and will initiate the appointment process at the next college. As you note today, there is a strong horizontal link and this cannot be just on the Committee on Home Affairs. Absolutely not. Digitalization in agriculture could talk for an hour. In health, some of you have already said, smart infrastructure, the development of smart cities, villages and so on, all of this, see it merges, with the digitisation of industry, the digitization of local self-government and so on. So, this is an extremely strong topic, extremely interlinked topic, and that is why I am also concluding, and I am calling on the State Assembly to set up a Digital and Green Transformation Committee as soon as possible. I'll get it over with. I wish the candidate today that he is elected to do well, that he also endures all the prey under his feet that he will receive. My fellow Members, I believe that there is quite a bit of you on the Left, but I call for us to sever species, as we are in vaccination, to link ourselves to this common goal of beating Slovenia between one of the most highly developed countries in Europe and, above all, digitally literate countries in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the following word, and Mrs Monika Gregorčič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends. Digitalisation certainly means something vital for the development of Slovenia itself. Personally, I think it is right to set up a special, so-called Ministry of Digitalisation, which is said to be the special services of the Government for digital transformation, which will be key to the breakthrough of Slovenia in this area by the institution of the central concept of digital transformation. The coordination of all content at the level of different ministries is certainly important here. Today we have listened to a number of observations about why we abolished this ministry in 2004, and everyone else would ask why, although you had the opportunity, at least three governments in which Nova Slovenije did not participate, you did not re-establish this. Every time a ministerial is appointed, it is certainly also an opportunity for views to be presented within the various parliamentary groups on the area covered by the Minister. To some extent, we have also done so today, but I regret that at least on the side of which colleagues and colleagues there have been some ideological accounting. Here I think mainly of some inappropriate comments about our former president, Dr. Andre Bajuk. In any event, he proved to be a finance minister in 2004-2008, he received a kind name as Minister of Finance of the Year in the European Union, and from that time he remained a legacy. At that time we were accepted into the euro and there was also an informational calculation of the income. I believe that digitisation is an area where ideological divisions should not occur on the left and right and should be the one in which we should look for some consensus within Slovenian politics. I welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define the area of digitisation of Slovenia as a strategic priority for our country. I am particularly close to the announcement by the candidate for minister that a compulsory subject of computer science, computer science and programming will be introduced into the school system, especially in primary and secondary schools. Based on experience in the world and in particular in the spirit of offering an education that will enable young people to have an equal standing with their peers around the world. It is our primary responsibility to provide children with an education that will enable them to participate successfully in the society of the future and that knowledge of computer science and computer science is certainly crucial in this regard. In New Slovenia, we want to become designers of the digital future in Slovenia and not just users of technological solutions. We can certainly do much in the field of digitisation of justice, especially in the field of digitisation of judicial processes. Today, as part of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, an informal meeting of the Council of the European Union for Justice is taking place in Brdo, discussing the development and use of artificial intelligence systems in the justice system itself. And one more thing to do. There is no way I can agree with some speakers today that there is not enough time in which to do something concrete in this area. In modern times, it is said at a time of rapid digitisation, the time running much faster and the missing 6 or 10 months in this area, says, in the field of digital transformation, is a significantly greater delay and can cause irreparable damage to the very introduction of digitisation into Slovenian society. I believe this will not happen today and we will get the Minister for Digital Transformation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, Ms Anja Bah Žibert prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u56	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a proposal for, a candidate for a digitalisation minister, an area that is crucial for our future development, and I must say that, first of all, I have looked at the CV, of course, this proposal for a candidate, which is somehow, I will say, without a blemish, and there is nothing to question about the competence and competence of the candidate. His presentation on the Committee on Home Affairs today was also excellent and very credible. In fact, it shows that it is a skill that will be entrusted to it. More than that, I was delighted by a team effort, commended for the broad support of prominent individuals and more than 30 important institutions. Yesterday we received Members at night, late evening, at our e-mail addresses, a joint call, a superpolitical message to all of us to stop some kind of block ideological division, at least on topics that should be in our common interest. Definitely digital progress is one where politics should be united if it wants to or if it seriously means working, we work for people. So, dear colleagues, even from the opposition, today is certainly an opportunity for you to prove and move from words to actions in that segment, when you like to refer to the profession or read to this government, that sometimes too little trust in the profession, before you is an extremely credible, professional candidate, you have an opportunity today, so to speak, to confirm your commitment to the profession. Why is digitisation so crucial to our future? Among other things, this is also a priority for our Presidency of the Council of the European Union, so it is important at some global level. But this is about social development, and the development of society is always going one way forward, so it would be good for us to find this path united together at least on this segment. Digitalisation is a tool that can make our lives easier, a means to achieve greater human well-being, to better protect the environment, it can create a more effective functioning of public systems, public administration, education, health care, and consequently a better relationship between people and ultimately a higher quality of life. So it saddens me that today, when I listened to the committee on which the candidate was presented, I also heard some inappropriate statement or that it was Uber's lobbyist that he was a neoliberal. You know such disqualifications at a personal level are inappropriate for a person who at the moment could have a purely different career path has decided to contribute to the development of our country with his knowledge and competence. His responses to this committee were now very concise, short, and very fair at the end. He admitted that he did not have a magic wand, that he knew that within a few months he would not be able to do or remove all the accumulated problems, but at that time he could make good extensions for the development of this area or for the development of all the social subsystems for the next term or in the coming mandates, and that should be the focus of all of us, in my opinion, regardless of what the outcome of the next election would be. Stop the development model of our country of society for the future medium term. So my support to the candidate for minister is, of course, in place. He's just not professionally competent, he's a man with a vision, educated, visionary, secular, if you want. It knows which direction this world is turning, which can also be a great advantage for a small country or a nation like Slovenia, when we are still a little bit more introverted or skeptical of various influences from abroad. In addition to an intellectual dimension, it has human latitude, personality traits. As it is said, despite some of the better career potentials, they decide to cooperate and help Slovenia. I also personally appreciate this dimension and thank him for this decision and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Anja Bah Žibert, prepares Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I think that today I myself have listened to the debates both on the committee, which has just somehow done the hiring of the candidate as here in the National Assembly and perhaps some of the debates have actually been on the wrong footing. I think it's wrong for anyone to think that digitization is being adopted by any of the political fields or any political field. It just doesn't work, and that kind of thinking is wrong. The digitisation of Slovenia, which is essential for its effective development, belongs to Slovenia and this must be the starting point for all of us. It is no matter who today is or who will become minister today, no matter who will be minister tomorrow, tomorrow, in the morning, in the year, in the year, in the year, it is digitisation in the hands of Slovenia. I'm going to throw away the eyewitnesses of those who say it, and because it's not serious, it's over the last ten months. Wrong. We also have a number of ministries in the country and these ministries do not go out when the government is replaced. Some structure is being replaced, but the area is moving on. Sometimes we would like these areas to work more continuously and to save years of development as well. But the fact is that digitisation of Slovenia is necessary and should begin as soon as possible and become one of the pillars, which will not only be in this government, but my call that it will also be in the future. Some also said that this was related to some other manoeuvres and I don't know, a poor government condition. I think you know that's not true either. First of all, I think that colleague Monica Gregorčič has already mentioned that digitisation is also at the forefront of our presidency. Thus, we have also talked about this when we were preparing the Presidency programme and today this is also an important point of the Presidency. It's the other way around. I think it is necessary to stress in this matter that the Strategic Council for Digitalisation was appointed April this year, indeed, but you know, its task was to prepare within five months some necessary proposals for the systematic acceleration of the digitisation of the country in various fields, economy, state administration, public administration, health, etc. In five months, Your Honor. But what really happened to this strategic world led by Mark Boris Andrijancič, Adrianic, was a little misspoken, thank you. What happened? Within two months, this strategic council came to some solutions and proposals. June, ladies and gentlemen, this strategic council has given more than 40 measures for the fourth decade of our country of Slovenia. And this is one of the things that shows not only that this strategic world was important, but how very effective it was, the whole group, a lot of experts were involved in this, they prepared measures in various areas, health, the economy, entrepreneurship, public administration, etc., different matters. I will also very much point out new technologies here, especially because it is not long before we have just changed the Constitution and one of the new technologies is also intended for the deaf and deaf, in short, a lot of this is and in fact has proved to be in some way even a real necessity for us to get this ministry so that all these measures, which are, of course, from different areas, can also be successfully implemented. And that's what this is all about. And such a ministry is important, it is essential, and I believe that the candidate, given how successful he has been in running this world, will also be successful in his work. Some of you, I've already told you, talk about these short ten months. Please look at this, it is still ten months, it is still almost one year from four years when the Government has a mandate and you do not think that after one year of operation the Government has already stopped everything. Do you expect citizens and citizens to do so, and a year ago, I don't know, some decision that they stop doing. Such discussions are not only pointless but irresponsible. Responsible policy works from day 1 to the last minute. And that's how this government will work. And I'm really calling for you to think here that this isn't going to work, it's really not one of the political options. You've been saying how it's relevant in Slovenia and so on. This is the government's resort, this is the resort, this will be the republic of Slovenia and this is the resort that will take us to the future. And perhaps, from this point of view, that we all stand for a successful future, consider supporting the candidacy in the opposition as well. As it is said, this is not about any government, it is about digitisation, which is necessary for our space and will, as the Prime Minister's presentation today said, save many thousands of hours for both employees and users. And time is money, and time is the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u59	Thank you very much. First of all, my apologies to my colleague Šuštar for missing her on the list, so that she gets the floor now, Mrs Tadeja Šuštar, and for her, Mrs Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I am pleased that we are setting up today's meeting of the Ministry without a digital transformation card. We have heard Slovenia lagging behind technological progress in digital literacy. And I think it's the right time or we're already late to set up this ministry. In Novi Slovenije we have always stressed that we must take IT forward and the confirmation of the Minister for Digitalisation is a step in the right direction. One of the most important measures the minister has presented on the committee in Novi Slovenija, the candidate for Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic, seems to think that the project is an e-personal card where all the data will be collected in one place. And if we change our personal data, let's say when we get married, when we change our last name or when we move, when we change our permanent address, that we can arrange all the documents in one place, that we don't have to go to the administrative unit, to the bank, and to other offices where we waste our time and energy needlessly. Another important point of the programme is the change in the school system or the introduction of a new subject of computer science into the school curriculum, as we are aware that education needs to be started in youth and that the sooner digital literacy begins, the better results will be. For the elderly, who will not experience this in schools, a digital voucher will be established and each will be able to choose a course where he will upgrade his computer skills, starting with the elderly and then for all interested. I believe that with the new Minister we will reduce our backlog faster than with other countries of the European Union and also with the world in the field of digitisation. And I'll be happy to support the minister myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Natasa Sukić, Mr Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u62	Yes, thank you very much for your word. First of all, maybe one question, because I see you all agree on it, the purpose is digitisation and so on. Is it true? In early June, Emilia Stojmenov Duh, an electrical engineering engineer, withdrew from the Strategic Council for Digitalisation, pointing out that the Slovenian recovery and resistance plan envisions significantly less money for digitisation than elsewhere in Europe. And so I quote, and I quote, "I can't help feeling that the strategic world is just a marketing arena and not a strategically inclusive and transparent digitalisation planning." End of story. This was said by one of the members of this strategic council, who came out of protest because she then found out. Then you won't say anything, will you? Next. Today, the candidate said that the app would shorten the waiting types. Really? When, though, can an application shorten waiting types? I mean, the app can upgrade the portals, but it can't eliminate the systemic causes for these long waiting types. It can't change the fact that more than 130,000 people don't have a personal doctor. That the former Director of the Institute of Health Employment had already mentioned the possibility of cutting a basket of basic health rights so that pensioners would pay for the whole pension per year for supplementary health insurance bills, so that commercial insurance companies would take over health centres from the benefit of the beneficiaries. That these centres will be able to apply for an invitation to tender co-financed by these same insurance companies from the collected ration premiums. That the infrastructure is outdated, the equipment is worn out, that underpaid and burned nurses quit and flee to Austria and so on, that some doctors provide themselves with fabulous profits besides the public service as privates this afternoon. For all these systemic reasons, I'm sorry, no app, no super-Uber Minister can eliminate. So stop selling high-end flossules here. On the first day of parliamentary holidays [[sign for the end of the debate]] You have now thrown us into the amphitheatre a proposal for a minister a few months before the elections, which will not be able to change much in fact, but as far as digitisation is concerned, do not speak to me as if nothing had been done so far. Of course, things are going to happen and this minister won't do a miracle in six months or eight months, but at least with the app, he'll shorten the waiting lines for the doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Andrej Chernigoj, the next Mr Zmago Jelinčič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u64	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Digitalisation is not what we would push away, but digitalisation itself has come into our lives to make our lives easier. New Slovenia has placed digitisation among the priorities of its programme, and we have also issued the Smart Slovenia programme, where we will present this area in detail for the future of New Slovenia. I would therefore also say that there is a question on this point where we want to be and what the future of Slovenia will be. I know exactly which way Slovenia should follow, and what the future will be like, but let us not leave the fortune tellers alone, but let us be the one to build our successful Slovenian future. And among these people, I also include successful people Mark Boris Andrijanic. I see him as a man of great talents and sightseeing, and above all a positive minded person who also makes sense of humor. On the one hand, in recent days, we have received hundreds and hundreds of letters from our e-mail addresses, which in my personal opinion have been artificially generated by several persons, many times these letters have been offensive and in my opinion some have also been threatening. On the other hand, yesterday we received only one letter, just one letter, which in my opinion weighs down all those artificially generated letters, where it informs us that more than 33 organisations supported 40 measures of the first digitisation package of the Council. He's sorry. And they support Mark Boris Andrianic as the future minister. And on the one hand, how brutally different we are that about organisations that have supported the current candidate, some in this National Assembly see perfect evil. And here are organizations from Universities in Primorska, Ljubljana, to the British Slovenian Chamber of Economics, while the Society abroad educated Slovenes are impressed, and universities for information studies, Economic Chambers of Slovenia. You see great, great evil in all these economic and organizational systems. And let me tell you, dear colleagues, something else. Young people in Slovenia and abroad do not wonder which side you belong to, but what you know or what you can show. Here I think it will be necessary to replace the entire page completely and to completely replace the paradigm, even for what professor here in the National Assembly. And on the one hand, I believe, I believe in the New Slovenia programme, I believe in the Smart Slovenia programme, and on the other hand, one party is afraid to talk about their program in this esteemed assembly. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I myself will support candidate and colleague Mark Boris Andrijanic because I believe in the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u65	The replica of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u66	Now I don't know, the candidate said that in most cases he agrees with me. I'm the only professor here, and he'll probably have to replace the paradigm as a candidate for NSI. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u67	Thank you very much, buddy Duck. Now I find that you didn't discuss it, so there was no chance of replica. I've got two more applications, but I can't see them, so they're the Victory of the Elinčič nobles and mags. Branko Grims, so all the reported discussers you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone else wants to under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. The application shall be made. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u68	Nice greeting to all present, thank you very much for your word. Unlike others, I will try to be positive, because on the committee, on the committee, I am pleased to find that all the members of the committee agreed that e-technology, the area of e-education, is very important for our country. Of course, there is a difference between how the opposition deals with matters and how the current coalition has dealt with them. It is understandable that the opposition points out that a number of areas are already in the stage of e-development, in the stage of e-development, and there are concerns about certain issues with the justification that it is still necessary to consider agreeing that there is a need to talk, it may be necessary to read that further studies should be made on which to earn. The opposition, in spite of Ozirom's coalition, wants to take advantage of the time that remains for this government. [[…]] Indeed, the candidate for digitisation is already in the stage of implementation. This was carried out in the area of the Strategic Council, where the candidate was involved, fully involved with other experts. It was found that out of 120 areas, they had hatched for the first phase of 40 areas in which everyone, but really everyone agrees that they are needed. If we look at it, let's take a look at some of the measures. It was said, building permits. I come from the local community myself, and I know what it means to get building permits. This area can now be brought to this level so that we can reach a complete, complete issue of the e-building permit. In fact, all local, all local, local, local maps are already in shape, we have an e-earth book and it is only necessary to combine this and this synergy can give us that a certain citizen will get an e-construction permit. Of course, we can be far from that, but still. Health care. In health, we all know we're short-staffed, and what can e-technology do to help? What is unnecessary now is the forms that doctors, highly qualified, in the field of health, deal with administration. This is what weighs them most, and here are open options. Here is an e-technology that will relieve the number of people, because what it means when the state is in the e-company – that we will not have to do the unnecessary operations that we are duplicating today. This has been said a hundred times. This means that we will cheapen society, and accountability will be more transparent, and ultimately only the responsibility of certain leaders, and it will be possible to relieve itself because it will be transparent. There was a lot of talk on the board about the vouchers - why is there a need for vouchers again? Look, we can say boni, we can say anything else, but the fact is that already today many local communities, including colleague Muršič, have said, which was in the local area, say, local communities are buying computers for free to train older ones. So this is already going on and we want to, we want to raise ourselves, in this country, to the level of all citizens, without it being possible for a rich municipality to afford some education for its citizens, we know, from 50 to 50, a generation, a smaller municipality that is harder. No, [[sign for the end of the debate]] This needs to be done at national level and these are the areas, these are those areas that are very important and therefore it is important that we take advantage of this time. Because if we look only at what can happen, if they are, we're looking for new candidates in the inn, then I wouldn't be an MP here myself, because before this coalition was formed, it was a demolition, it was a collapse from day one and it's going to collapse until the last day. So, this government is working from day one, and it's going to work until the last day, [[sign for the end of the debate]] That's why he has my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u70	Thank you, President. I've heard before, I've listened very carefully, here, to your debates, and what I've heard and have heard many times also that you mentioned that this person was being insulted or that he was being spoken over, I mean, I didn't see it that this, from this candidate, was saying anything bad about him. But I remember very well when Angelika Mlinar was a candidate, what words fell down from your side. That's what I remember, isn't it, but that's what, specifically, the insults were then, so much so that, I mean, a couple of dots about it. [[…]] What bothers us here is why we will vote against this, right, but why the Minister? I mean, the election is in 10 months. Let's be honest. So, 10 months from now, we have an election. Now we have a parliamentary rest that we could already have, right, so take another two months off, and we have eight months left. Now I haven't heard anything in his debate, I mean, when he introduced himself and not even now, about his organization, his organigram, what's gonna happen, I mean, if he brings this team together, he's at least two months away again, right? [[Incomprehensible]] What remains of this man now, operationally, how long will he have at his disposal to digitise us, if so, an important expression now. What's going to be practical, because I know a lot of ideas have fallen on the table, a lot of things that are. And I'd be [[?]] Surprised by something, isn't it, if it has such rich experience as you said, now that he's led that committee now, that's me, I don't see, one giant plus, mostly, let's leave. [[Incomprehensible]] If he has such rich experience, he has probably overlooked some basic, already established, solutions. On the portal, on the portal from the Government I read here, one of its priorities, in the informative calculation of the children's allowance, we want to enable parents to fail to fulfil one role every year, the data that the country already keeps, and this is what we are already doing, it already has, it's nothing new It's going on, because I'm reading another its government, our government, UKOM probably, we want to establish a mobile application, with which the individual will have easy access to their health data, medical certificates, travel, recipes. [[…]] [[…]] I have a Master of Health. I don't know if you have one. It's all in the Master of Health. Show me everything you need, where you've been, where you've taken pictures, what you've done. I mean, now I don't know. We're talking here now about some, some expert who comes to digitize us in the head practically. [[Laughing in the hall]] . You understand, and why all these halfs say what he's writing and what he's presented, we already have. I mean, I'm asking myself now, but I need it now, because eventually they'll have four months to work, because it's half Christmas and so on, but that's gonna be what it is. What will this poor man do to help us digitize Slovenia? And the only thing that would be smart who said that we talked so many times about e-elections, for example, he didn't even mention it. He didn't even mention it. This could be if we looked at the example of Estonia or other things it is. That could be something smart. This could take six months to get this thing ready. [[…]] If I could get this thing ready, I could make one good score with one. The other one doesn't have to work, the other one's all he said. [[Laughing in the hall]] It's all in there. Now, the only one [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] , the only thing [[clapping]] Now, I'm sorry, but look, I'm a realist, I'm an operative, I don't have time to waste. [[…]] But look, I'm probably what you can do, I think that the 2 billion, as we mentioned in the program, are important to give hands over them. He'll probably be doing some kind of program to control us. I mean, it's also possible, I don't know, that kind of force. Show yourself in Europe now, too, at the moment we are here, because there are means for digitisation that we have an organised ministry. A ministry that doesn't know what's gonna happen. We have neither financial nor financial implications. We've got nothing. [[sign for the end of the debate]] But NSI didn't even know she was getting a minister, let's be honest. [[Laughing in the hall]] Yeah, because what we heard on TV, Nova Slovenija didn't even know she was getting a minister. [[Laughing in the hall]] Now they're talking about the quarter, bragging about the quarter, because the three is already so successful, now the quarter is going to be the big deal for everyone. Basically, these are the reasons why it seems absurd for us to vote and have a new minister at all, so we will vote against it. Same thing. [[a character for turning off the microphone]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u71	Thank you very much. [[clapping]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the candidate's proposal for a minister without a portfolio responsible for digital transformation. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The Minister without a department responsible for digital transformation is Mark Boris Andrijanic. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u72	For your own sake.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u73	Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. In his own name, Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, President. I have to say, I've been personally under terrible pressure for a few days to vote. Pressure comes from every angle. It's just very difficult to bear them. We are set up by voting controllers and, of course, the most painful thing is that someone claims to me that I’m dealing, that I’m dealing, that it’s going to go to the bill drawer, that it goes deeper into the second law drawer, and that I’m going to vote for the minister candidate. This is all a big lie, and that's why I'm going to vote in favour. And I propose, and I suggest to my opposition colleagues, I have already been with them in the coalition. To the extent that they want Jurša to vote in favour of the proposals, they have good suggestions to leave me alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u75	We're voting. [[Applause]] He's here. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Quiet, please! There are 89 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 44. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 44.]] I find that Mark Boris Andrijanic is appointed Minister without a department responsible for digital transformation. I ask the newly appointed minister to join us and to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u76	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u77	I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him the successful conduct of the ministry or the performance of his duties, if I am more precise. Mr. Secretary, would you like to address the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u78	Dear Members, distinguished Members of the National Assembly! I sincerely thank all those who voted in favour or against me today. I do not consider your vote against digitisation and Slovenia, which is open to the future and development. I believe that, and that is why I will strive to make digitisation a national priority and a project that brings together not only the whole society, but also the whole policy. I know this will not be easy, but I see digitisation as a team sport in which Slovenia can only win if we play together. Thank you very much again. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Third defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Božo Dialic, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members! The law that you will be making in the third reading today has been almost all told, since his history, when should it be adopted, what is the content, the amendments, we have talked about this much. We know the contents. Even everyone, I am sure that all doubts and questions have also been clarified in the course of the procedures so far. I can say that, in my firm belief, this is one of those laws in which the widest public debate took place, that the entire public concerned participated and that the proposal before you today has support. During all this time, even from the last reading, from the second reading to the present, we have received only expressions of support, not one criticism or proposal to change anything, and because this law corresponds to all of them, but also because we are threatened by the punishment of the European Union, because the directive has not been implemented, I appeal to all of you Members to forget today's prestigious political struggles and the law for the benefit of all users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u82	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The procedure for adopting amendments and supplementing the arms law shall be drawn up as a yoke of snakes. The legislative process was introduced in autumn 2019, even during the time of the government of Marjan Šarca. The main purpose is to propose implementation of the so-called European Armed Directive. Its acceptance dates back to 2017. The fundamental objectives are, in particular, better control of trade, firearms, greater traceability, a balance between the obligation to ensure the free movement of certain types of firearms within the EU and the need to control this free movement. The directive also indirectly responded to the attack on the French satirical diary, which claimed 17 victims in 2015. The attackers bought the weapon legally and then converted it into automatic rifles. While some feel that the EU has already gone wrong with the arms directive. This Directive is the case, as is the case with the Legal Weapons Act, but does not address the problem of illegal weapons, which poses the greatest threat to the security of Europe as a whole. When we're talking about weapons, it's a pretty sensitive area. In the SAB party, we advocate the view that this area should be regulated in a manner that will, to the greatest extent, prevent abuse and ensure the highest level of security. We support effective control and traceability of weapons, as one piece in the wrong hands can lead to tragedy. In Slovenia there are many registered pieces of weapons, most applications for possession refer to hunting, followed by sport and collecting. As already said, the law before us today refers to weapons in legal possession, as it regulates its categorization, control, purchase and condition for use. We agree that it is also important to control trade, use of legal weapons, but in such a way that it does not unduly interfere with sports shooting and does not interfere with already acquired rights. The original proposal without subsequently adopted supplements significantly restricted sports shooting. With regard to this law, there has been a lot of lobbying, and we have received several warnings and proposals for amendments by shooting and hunting families and alliances that have raised concerns about the anomaly of the proposed changes. The initial proposal would prevent a number of sports disciplines, which are recognised both in Slovenia and abroad, and would make the exercise and competition more difficult. The definition of an officially recognised shooting organisation would result in a large majority of shooting organisations, as only two meet the condition, which, according to some union representatives, would mean the end of a dynamic sports shooting in Slovenia. The area of sport shooting is already well regulated, which also shows the results of our athletes and even in the SAB we do not see the need to further sharpen the conditions for sports shooting. There's been a lot of controversy around the silencers. In the SAB we heard both arguments for and arguments against. The fact is, to a large extent, they help to reduce the ability of the shooter's hearing, although they do not completely silence the sound. They are also nicer to hunting dogs that are particularly sensitive to sound. European legislation does not put any obstacles to their purchase, intervention and use and their application is permitted in at least 12 European countries. However, in the first place we swear to safety and prevention, so we supported the amendment that envisaged the purchase and use of silencers under certain conditions. In the SAB Group, we are aware that the implementation of the arms directive is primarily in the national legal order. Otherwise, Slovenia will receive high penalties for default. At the same time, we are pleased that with most stakeholders I have reached a compromise and the proposal has been corrected in a way that will not limit the sport of shooting, which has a successful tradition in Slovenia. We will support the bill in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The aim of the Weapons Act is to clearly determine the rights and obligations of persons relating to weapons, their possession, carrying and use. The fundamental consideration followed by the law is two, the protection of life, health and safety of people and the protection of public order. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that the existing Arms Act is properly regulated by, or on, social changes and trends, it is necessary to approach the updating of legal provisions. The Basic Arms Act was adopted in 2000, and has also been amended several times mainly to comply with European directives. The reason for this time's amendment of the law is also the transposition of the European Directive, as well as the harmonisation with other Slovenian legislation and the elimination of inconsistencies that have been demonstrated in the application of everyday practice. Almost three quarters of 2019, the Ministry of the Interior coordinated with various stakeholders in the last quarter of 2019 and reached such consensus that it was confirmed by the then Government and submitted to the legislative procedure at the end of October. In December 2019 a general debate was held in the National Assembly. At that time, the interest was also expressed to make a public presentation of the novel, which was also made on 3 May this year much later than originally envisaged for excusable epidemiological reasons. All invited participants attended these public presentations. There was also a unanimous desire to resolve issues concerning the problems of Slovenian shooting sport. A good month later on 16 June this year, the novel was the subject of an extensive discussion at the working body of the National Assembly. However, the complementary proposal was adopted by a high consensus with the expected negligible opposition. A week ago, on 8 July, we had a second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly. It seemed necessary for me to summarise all these developments, since the amendment of the Weapons Act was one of those laws that had, both in the drafting process and in the whole legislative process, the full cooperation of the professional and lay public was ensured. This is particularly important in the light of the Slovenian folklore of complicated chatter about the inability to achieve constructive dialogue. It is true that this was an essential reason for the amendments to the transposition of the European Directive, which is so general that it cannot cover all the specifics of national arrangements and that this was the biggest apple of the dispute how to maintain Slovenian shooting sport in its current form and content and satisfy the requirements of the European Union. Members of the Desus Group believe that, through all the broad public debate and coordination between the various stakeholders, there is now a proposal for a law that takes account of the European directive to which we as a member of the European Union are committed. At the same time, all interested parties, or those to whom this law applies, may continue to carry out their activities and activities. The law so appropriately regulates the classification of weapons, export control, import and transit of weapons, arms trafficking, weapons-bearing rules and so on. The essential news concerns the rules on sound suppression devices. These devices will be able to use sportsmen and hunters, and such arrangements will certainly have a beneficial impact on the immediate vicinity of the facilities where these shootings are carried out and more peaceful daily lives of people who have their houses near sports and military shooting sites and I reiterate that significant innovations relate to the preservation of all the diverse disciplines of Slovenian shooting sport and the possibility of their further development. We have therefore held extensive discussions in the National Assembly on all stages of the legislative process. The legal text is substantially altered in relation to the basic version and the outcome of all these tasks is the result. Members of the Desus Group will be unanimously supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u85	Thank you. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u86	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the Novelo Law on Weapons. As you know, the proposed changes and additions are the result of a public presentation of opinions and long-term coordination with key stakeholders and, last but not least, of the grueling treatment both at the meeting of the home working body and at the plenary session of the assembly. Although the novel has already been proposed by the previous government, its treatment has been halted due to the epidemic. However, since the amendment transposes European legislation or the EU directive on arms control and possession, the aim of which is to prevent acts of terrorism with weapons, such as the attack on the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in 2015 and the attack on the Paris club Bataclan later that year, the directive also refers to illegal possession of weapons, also legal. Slovenia is almost three years late for implementation and today's meeting represents the deadline for the State Assembly to take a decision. Since this directive limits sportsmen, hunters and also arms dealers, it has encountered a critical response. In the Group, we agree that, in order to prevent terrorism and crime with weapons, and in view of the trend in the development and use of weapons for civilian purposes produced and offered on the European Union market and on the world market, changes are necessary, and we must not neglect that Slovenia has good and restrictive legislation in this field, in particular with regard to the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms. And even in practice, there has been no trade in these weapons for the purposes of terrorist and criminal organisations. However, it is possible to conclude that this has not been the case in some other EU Member States, and we therefore agree that appropriate action on firearms has to be taken at European level. However, it is important that the new legislation is not too restrictive or inadequate, even without justified security and technical reasons, to limit the rights of legal owners of weapons, especially hunters, collectors and sports shooters, as well as the selection and possession of historical weapons and ammunition. And that arms owners are not burdened with unnecessary administrative burden, which in no way contributes to greater security. It should be borne in mind that terrorism and extremism and organised crime are not supplied with legal weapons, but are targeted at the illegal market. Only with changes in the area of legitimate procurement and possession of firearms to crime and terrorists and extremists will it be impossible to limit access to weapons. This is also illustrated by the recent case of a 20-year-old man from Slovenia who, fortunately, failed to attempt the murder he was planning, obtained illegal weapons through the so-called U.S. Darknet. Terrorism and criminal acts committed with firearms cannot be prevented by creating obstacles to hunters, collectors and sportsmen who must comply with the rules in the procurement, possession and use of weapons. Therefore, legal owners are not as much a problem as some do. Slovenia is also not a country that manufactures weapons of mass destruction or trades in weapons. We are aware that weapons in the wrong hands can pose a risk to terrorism and crime, and therefore exacerbation makes sense, but it is necessary to find the right measure. According to our assessment, we have done a good job both in the home working body and in the plenary session of the assembly and have adopted amendments which, in an appropriate manner, correct or amend, complement the original proposed solutions. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have supported both the amendments of opposition and coalition parliamentary groups, as they have brought an appropriate compromise between the requirements of the directive and the proposals of hunters, collectors of historical weapons [[sign for the end of the debate]] and sports shooters and legal and technical improvements to the novel. We regret, however, that the LMŠ did not receive the support of an amendment to the LMŠ Group, which provides that special weapons equipment is also considered to be silencers of sound, and that these are exceptionally permitted only if they are designed to be affixed to, or are an integral part of, the weapon for which an arms document has been issued. According to our assessment, this solution would be appropriate. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Nevertheless, we estimate that the solutions adopted on the one hand will provide a sufficiently high level of security against abuse and, on the other hand, do not prevent sports, hunting and collecting, so we will support the novelty.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u88	Good-bye. The law that we have before us is good, but it is not yet good enough, it will need to be upgraded, corrected and coordinated with Slovenian trends, but not only followed by European directives. The transposition of the European Directive is sufficient in this bill, but there will be a lot more to be added. We've added sound-suffering devices, which has raised a lot of resistance, especially with the police, but I think that sometimes the police think that silencers actually work the way we see in some American movies when the shot is not even heard. The shot with the silencer is reduced by approximately 20 to 25%. But the best stranglers are nothing but a regular bottle of coke you empty, put it on a pipe, and shoot. That soul is even more powerful than all the other silencers. But it's true, it's only for one shot. There will be a lot of repairs to be done, including in other areas, in Slovenia we have weapons possession, which is now a crime, which is stupidity. In the former Yugoslavia, where everything was much more restrictive, it was an offence. With us, however, there is an immediate arms trade and production, explosives, and I don't know what, even if a collector accidentally gets a piece of weapons, even if someone finds a piece of weapons in the attic, the problem is that he has to be held by the police for about a year, whether it's from someone or not, and the judge also punishes him according to the fact that it's a crime. This has already been the case, and in this way we will not eradicate the grey or black market and black weapons in Slovenia, which some consider to be over 50,000 weapons black in Slovenia. A lot of stupid things have been written by the European Directive and the European Union itself does not know what it wants. On the one hand, they want to lower and limit the size of the magazines to 10 rounds for those who respect the laws of course, and on the other hand, Arab terrorists can easily carry around the AK-47 machine with 32 bullets. If they put a bullet through Lapua, it's a terrible weapon. But these terrorists will not be burdened. We will burden those who respect the laws. Now, I've gone a little bit into the field of European law as far as weapons are concerned. There is nonsense in the whole species, including that the old weapon is counted by what was made before 1873, which is, no one knows why this date is. But now that it has been more than 100 years since the end of the 19th century, we should take this into account and somehow set it differently. The fact is that weapons are the culture and technical heritage of any nation. We Slovenians had our weapons at the same time as they were in Germany, in northern Italy, and we also had our rifles on the wheel ignition. After all, the Cacianar got 18 to fight the Turks. And our historians don't know much about that either. In short, to conclude, we will absolutely support the law, it must be supported, but support for this law should in fact be the beginning of further work, further correction, and in particular suggestions to the European Union [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] In this area, however, let him sober up and begin to think with his head and donkeys with Slovenian healthy farm smarts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u90	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Slovenian shooting sport, led by Olympic winners, Mr Raymond Debevec, has achieved remarkable success in recent years. And today in this law we must be aware that it is really a sport, it is a Slovenian shooting sport. The reason we are adopting this law today is indeed a European directive. If only it were from data that is only for Slovenia, where there were none with legal sports weapons, at least I do not know the case of a major crime, crime, or any worse accident. Then, of course, it is only possible to say the river used by American marines — do not fix something that seems to work well. And we should leave the marriage the way it is. Unfortunately, this cannot be done under the European Directive. This European directive, unlike what some have just said, does not know what it wants, has a single objective. Those who accepted it then wanted to paint themselves to say — see, we did something for the safety of people. Unfortunately, they did it without asking anyone. And they have done nothing for the safety of people, because this European directive does not touch at all what is a real danger, and this is illegal, as a rule, military automatic explosive weapon. He doesn't touch it at all. It touches only sports weapons, partly hunting weapons, and then this list is over. And for this reason, of course, the full implementation of such a directive could have been extremely damaging to Slovenian sport. I had the time to be in the first independent assembly, then from 2004 until today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I do not recall one example of a law that would be held in such an extensive public debate, which would eventually be reached with all the interested ones, those directly concerned – say shooting societies, sports companies, the Olympic Committees, with all the interested – as much of the level of consensus as we did at the meeting when the amendments to this law were adopted. All those who were present there, and these were all who had previously made comments and then also responded to our invitation to the meeting, expressed their support at the end of the time when the amendments were voted on, for this is a good compromise that saves Slovenian sport. All these are the reasons why we will unanimously support this law in the SDS. With only one wish to continue to win and live well, Slovenian shooting sport does well. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! So we have before us the last act of the New Testament on Weapons. After long coordination, the previous one, the Sharčev government, brought it into the process more than a year and a half ago. A law that had a broad professional, broad public and broad political debate. And in LMŠ we also listened to the profession, we also listened to you in the opposition at the time, we called for a public presentation of opinions that proved useful, but you were also supplementing the law in your own way. The law, which is a consequence of the urgent implementation of the European Directive and is the basis for the trans-categorisation of weapons, should, in the first place, increase security. But in our view, it is unfortunately decreasing with some of the changes or additions introduced by the coalition. Nor does the law increase control and sanctions on the black market with weapons to the extent necessary. I think that everyone here can agree that the safety of our country's citizens is paramount and that weapons can also pose a health risk. Finally, this describes the existing law and therefore controls are needed and sanctions are needed for violators. And in order to improve the law to the fullest extent possible and implement solutions, we have tabled several amendments to the LMŠ in the course of the legislative process and, above all, the two have been crucial to us. The first was the one who legitimized the use of silencers. And here we followed the world's proposals, we did not oppose the use of silencers or sounds, i.e., almost every weapon produces some dangerous and harmful noise, which, of course, by one shot, can cause a dry loss and silencers limit that sound. But we cannot accept the fact that this piece of weaponry, weapons equipment, which the strangler certainly is, can buy anything anyone. The coalition changes the law in such a way that buying chokers is possible without conditions. That means anyone can buy it anytime and anywhere. Someone who doesn't even have a weapon or someone who owns it illegally. The amendment of the LMŠ, which was unfortunately not adopted during the course of the procedure, only one vote was lost, and this amendment envisaged that silencers or sound devices would be considered as special equipment for weapons. This would mean that, in practice, before a person purchases such specific equipment, i.e. a silencer, should submit a valid weapons document, i.e. for the weapons for which that silencer purchases them. Nitrogens would also be subject to one provision as applicable to weapons in the field of sharing or lending or for transport. Such arrangements are already in force in several Member States of the European Union. So, conditioning the purchase of a silencer, by demonstrating the weapons charter. And this, in our view, is also the only option, but this is not going to happen now. It is incomprehensible that someone who does not have or does not have a permit for a weapon has possessed a silencer, but, after all, abuses or processing have already shown themselves, we have already seen them, and so they are possible. The second extremely important amendment or important topic for us is article 17a of the law, which is an extremely important article for Slovenian shooting sport. This allows exceptions, according to the new, to the use of prohibited weapons. This is an automatic firearm that was converted into semi-automatic firearms and semi-automatic firearms and semi-automatic long tube firearms, of course for sport. Only the reason for sports shooting can be an exception to the use of such weapons. These include individuals who provide evidence that they are members of a shooting sports organization, which is a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, a association of sports associations or an international and officially recognised sports association or a shooting organisation. Above all, the statement for the LMŠ would be acceptable, but it is not and will never be acceptable for us, the continuation of this statement introduced by the coalition will also be confirmed by the shooting organisations, so that such weapons can also be used by shooting organisations that have the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I'm really wondering what the government's defence organization has to do with exceptions to sports? Nothing at all, and we know now that it is at least one organisation that is close to the government and the largest government party and that the use of this prohibited weapon would now be permitted. There is also fear that the MORS, led by a man who wanted to involve paramilitary groups in the Slovenian Army, would allow this guard, under this article, to replace plastic weapons for law and we cannot allow that. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The law, which offers some appropriate solutions, and in one part also takes account of the directive, in some part, we fear that, in particular, the two things that have not been introduced, the law is no longer appropriate for us and that we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u94	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! At the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Weapons Act, the following should be stressed: the State, as regulator, must, by appropriate legislation, ensure, in accordance with European legal standards, that existing and future owners and users of weapons, as well as members of sports and other shooting societies, practical shooters, hunters, gunmen, collectors, their activity or lovemaking, are still able to carry out, at the same time of course, to ensure the proper safety of all people. If once there is an abuse of weapons in the way we have unfortunately seen it in Europe several times in various shootings and other tragic events, it will be too late to analyse why and how this has happened. Therefore, the amendment of this law still gives rise to the warning that decision-making between human security on the one hand and the exercise of rights on the other is complex and difficult, but should be first of all human security. We are of the opinion that any misuse of weapons registered or illegal is unacceptable and must be prosecuted most severely. The process of adopting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Arms Act dates back to 2019. in the general debate, the public presentation of opinions, the broad debate on the Committee, I believe that in this debate, we have also found a number of wrong solutions in our opinion, and that is why we cannot support the individual solutions to the proposed law, and this in particular relates to the solution in the new Article 17a, which decides on the legitimate reason for issuing the Arms Charter and 6a, 7 and 8a of Category A. We ask ourselves why a shooting organisation which has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the field of defence has a public interest, the press does not belong to those shooting sports organisations that are members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions or the internationally and officially recognised Sports Associations. [[Incomprehensible]] The individual referred to in this Article will demonstrate, upon submission, that a member of a shooting organisation which has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the field of defence and is involved in the exercise of sport within the framework of a shooting organisation which has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence referred to in the previous indent at least 12 months prior to the application. Another problematic weapon is the introduction or legalization of silencers or moderators. It is important to point out that silencers will not be obliged, which means that they will not contribute to the lower noise load of the environment, which some colleagues here are confident of, and someone will have, others will not, and will therefore be confused about the use of these sound moderators. In the debates, we have challenged this use of silencers both in terms of safety and in terms of control, especially because the police, as the competent and most professional and professional body, have categorically opposed the introduction of silencers, but the opinion of the police here has not been taken into account because the policy has considered that the introduction of silencers is good. Now, whether it is really good, it will show time, but here is not the key time, the consequences are crucial, but such unwise moves can occur and such consequences are usually severe and tragic and believe me, if there are consequences, I will every time and always remember the moment that you could prevent them and you did not want them. We will not support the draft law in the SD Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Good-bye! We will, of course, vote against it in Levica. Why not? We have before us a decision on the amendment of the arms law proposed by the Government of Marjan Sarca at the end of 2019. The SDS and NSI parties have tabled a number of controversial amendments to this law to provide some of their civil society satellites with easier access to a larger range of modern military weapons than the current legislation allows. This, however, can be a real fear, as the civil war to which the SDS suggests, in the pre-Congress resolution is no longer just a matter of rhetoric, but a prediction that the ruling coalition is also preparing for it by handing out arms sheets to its fellow thinkers is a matter of question, the coalition has added to the arms law another provocation or a well-thought plan. Following the amendment's proposal, members of a shooting organisation with the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence, such as the Janšisti VSO, will also be able to come to arms. The metal telescopic rods of one of the popular street weapons of neo-Nazis after the new will no longer be considered prohibited weapons. The silencers and bayonet adapters on the weapon will be available to all sportsmen and hunters. Apparently there's a new sports shooting discipline, shooting with a bayonet. Weapons collectors can now, as the only civilians, also possess military weapons from the most strictly regulated A category of weapons. The condition is that these weapons are no longer produced and are not used by the defence force or the police. This condition was deleted by the SDS and NSI amendments and the collectors will be able to possess the most modern military weapons. At the same time, they are also subject to the provision that those with more than ten pieces of B and C weapons must enable police officers to control how they store these weapons. Clearly, it is not a provision that museums or private owners of historic weapons need, but those who collect weapons for civil war. The right coalition's attack on the foundations of democracy and the state is growing rapidly. During the year they subordinated the police, put independent media and prosecutors on their knees, and the hunt for the witches of the Levica and the left opposition began with the publication of the threat of civil war in the SDS resolution on the defence of the constitutional foundations of the Slovenian state. That the ruling coalition is working increasingly towards increasing political polarisation of society and non-controversy also confirms a number of other deliberate moves by the ruling coalition from the unnamed European Delegated Prosecutors, targeted media releases and discredits, manufacturing half the truths and lies, fraternising with autocratic regimes, setting up loyal personnel and obedient straw ministers and so on. Finally, it also contributes to the granted status of a society of special public importance to the association established by the yellow vests which are publicly disclosed as being linked to the ruling party. It is therefore even more frightening that the SDS and NSI no longer remain at the level of their statements, but are apparently actively preparing for it with a dangerous amendment to the arms law, which will enable them to arm their most loyal party legal and illegal paramilitary associations. Of course, we will vote against it in Levica. I'm just sorry that some of you are so naive that you don't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that after two weeks we are all tired, but let us be patient with this little one and conclude the meeting as it is appropriate. [[advertising from the hall]] There you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u98	Dear President, this is getting too big, it's nothing like that anymore. There, on the right, they won't even allow us to read our views anymore, and I've seen it at the previous point, now again. I'm asking you to calm these people down, because they're not taking this anywhere anymore. What helps us all ethically, I don't know what codes, if they behave, look how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u99	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Once again, I appeal to you to hold on. Position of the Group of Ambassadors [[advertising from the hall]] You want to say maybe a break? The position of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Following this position and responses, I see that we are all already in need of leave, so this point is the last part of the call of the National Assembly. The main objective of the amendment to the Arms Act, which we are considering today at third reading, is to comply in particular with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending the Council Directive on the control of the purchase and possession of weapons and should be introduced into our legislation by or should be harmonised by September 2019. In particular, the Directive aims to strike a balance between the obligation to ensure the free movement of certain types of firearms and the need for control and certain security assurances. The amendments seek to prevent the threat of possible terrorist attacks, as we have witnessed in France. Better control of firearms trafficking, greater traceability of firearms and measures relating to the disposal or processing of firearms is ensured. Stricter rules for the acquisition and possession of firearms, the prohibition of the civilian use of the most dangerous firearms and the improvement of the exchange of relevant information between the Member States of the European Union are in place. In New Slovenia, we certainly welcome the efforts of the European Commission and the Ministry of the Interior to tighten arms control, which has been the main cause of terrorist attacks in recent years. However, we have already asked ourselves, or in our views, whether this sharpening is effective, since most of the weapons used in terrorist attacks are not legal and are acquired on the black market. So far, the regulation of Slovenia is quite strict and there are no indications that the very possession of weapons would endanger our security situation. A large public presentation of opinions was carried out before the second treatment of the parent body, which was carried out due to the epidemic only in the spring of this year. We have previously received 32 comments from interested parties [[?]] , associations and organisations. Most of the comments of the interested public were also taken into account by the amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body, so that the proposed law satisfied hunters, sportsmen, private collectors and museum owners. In New Slovenia, we believe that the law will allow us to continue the excellent Slovenian tradition of the top results of Slovenian sports shooters both at European and global level. In view of all the above, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u102	Thank you for your words, Vice President, nice greetings, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and also a very nice greeting. The proposed amendment and additions to the Weapons Act further specify the conditions for the purchase, possession and trafficking of weapons, complement the definition of individual terms and define the concept of essential components of weapons and categorize precisely the weapons in four categories. Conditions shall be laid down to show a legitimate reason for issuing a security weapons instrument for individuals who, due to the nature of their work, need security weapons, even outside working hours or after the end of working relationship and a number of other solutions. Special mention should be made, however, of the fact that Slovenia follows the example of many other European countries in this case with regard to silencers. Progress is already a fact that this piece of equipment will no longer be needed or allowed exclusively for special weapons in the use of military and police units, which will bring many benefits for sportsmen, hunters and the environment. A high-quality presentation of opinions was made on the bill, where it was heard by many stakeholders, civil society and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. At the initiative of the last proposal of the law, there is also a wide range of shooting organisations whose member will be able to demonstrate a legitimate reason for the acquisition of weapons and the acquisition of weapons for certain weapons for sport purposes. Also, there are more precise reasons for issuing an arms document for certain categories exclusively for the purpose of sport. Coalition supplements adequately regulate shortcomings in the bill and offer a compromise between what the directive requires, leaving sufficient room for manoeuvre for sportsmen, hunters and others. Slovenia has a very well-ordered field of sport shooting. The bill will ensure that Slovenian sports shooting will continue to work successfully and will also be strengthened. At the same time, we must not forget that it remains crucial to ensure security in the country, which we will achieve with good control and tracking of the weapons registered and, as a consequence, by reducing cuts that could occur on the black market. It is therefore also important to monitor the individual and to provide appropriate training for all those who for professional and recreational purposes handle weapons and for appropriate sanctions in the event of abuse itself. The adoption of the amendment will implement the provisions of the Directive in the Slovenian legal order, delaying almost 3 years and avoiding the payment of high penalties. We also welcome the rest of the already mentioned principles of the novel in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Therefore, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Weapons Act. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would not have brought the proposal into line with the law. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? An explanation of the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u104	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u106	I do not know why I should be the leader of the Group to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members. In short, as I have said, after the amendment, members of the shooting organisation, which has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence, will also be able to come to arms. And it's not a sport society when you keep saying it's a sport, but it's a defense organization. Interestingly, the metal telescopes of one of the popular street weapons of neo-Nazis after the new will no longer be considered prohibited weapons. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, this isn't going anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, please give me a re-evaluate all the time because I'm disturbed when I'm talking. [[advertising from the hall]] They're taking away my time to explain my voice and acting really catastrophic. As soon as a man disagrees with them, they act like one, I don't know, a horde over there. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u107	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u108	So I'm asking you to measure my three minutes so I can tell you in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u109	I've decided to re-evaluate your time, Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u110	Yes, thank you very much. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u112	In short, these aren't innocent things. Of course, in Levica we will vote against this very dangerous law, which of course looks so beautifully marked under the pretext that it is a sport shooting and so on, but I do not know what metal telescopes have to do with athletes, but they have to do with street neo-Nazi smashers who also beat people with them. Then I don't know what silencers and bayonet plugs have to do with sports shooting and hunting shooting. Apparently, like I said, you're introducing a new sports discipline, shooting with a bayonet. We know what bayonets really are for. Not to mention that the latest weapons would be available to collectors, which until now has not been possible, but it was only possible to have those weapons that were already used by more defence forces or by the police. So, please, who are you kidding? I don't know why people don't see what these people are doing. And once again, they talk all the time about saving Slovenian sports shooting, but shooting organisations that have the status of a non-governmental organization in the public interest in the field of defence will be able to easily get their members to the weapons. This is what my colleague, Anja Bah Žibert, sees with the rhetoric that they have now, but the rhetoric you've enjoyed at your congress in your resolutions is not what I invented, and at this time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u113	Dear Member, the time, three minutes has been counted back.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u114	- He's off the hook. In short, we will vote against it because it is an extremely dangerous and secret law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. Mr. Kordish, in his own name. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u116	The presidents ask you to follow what they say from the Left, because they not only fly to the right, but they fly to all Members and then at the last they ask for the speech again what they have already said in their position, so please remind them and they will not repeat themselves three times, four times, because we know who repeats it three times, four times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u117	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. Mr. Miha Kordish's explanation for the voice in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The far right gathered in the SDS parade with its paramours in the programming documents writes expressions of civil war and now releases access to weapons. What could possibly go wrong? I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u120	Even in my own name. I'll tell you exactly what I'm happy to tell you again because you're so impatient. In short, with your amendments, respected by the SDS and the NSI, you have, of course, attached these things to those things that do not belong in this law. At first, was there nothing wrong with the transposition of this Directive or was there anything wrong with our past law or not? But you have made sure that your satellites can have easier access to a larger range of modern military weapons than the current legislation allows, and forgive me for that fear. I don't know if I feel like the others are gone, but it's me when I look at your overjoy and read various resolutions so that I will certainly vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. This is, for the third time, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport rules within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Mihelič to the State Secretary for the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act also includes amendments or amendments to Article 16 of the Amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act. The Proposal for a Law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act provides for a stricter handling of drivers who do not take into account the importance of special lighting and sound signs placed on vehicles with an advantage of escort and accompanied by a stricter handling of drivers joining the vehicle with an advantage, by means of a stricter handling of drivers using devices that reduce hearing or visual perception while driving, with a certain appropriate lateral distance of 1.5 metres when overtaking riders, light motor vehicles and moped drivers whose design speed does not exceed 25 km/h. By laying down rules of conduct in the area of common traffic on the surfaces of pedestrians and cyclists, by laying down conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic, by establishing red light behaviour on traffic lights and traffic signs, by driving on the right side of the red light, and by extending the powers of municipal and toll guards, they pursue the main objectives of transport security policy in the country, and it is therefore important that the proposal of the law is adopted as soon as possible. [[Incomprehensible]] The behaviours of road users are actual traffic rules. If the behaviour of road users were a mirror image of legal road traffic rules, then road traffic would be in line with the principle of road trust, there would be no adverse consequences resulting from material injury, physical injury or even death. The draft law is based on the three main principles of road transport legislation, namely the principle of defensive behaviour, the principle of trust and the principle of protection of weaker road users. The principle of defensive behaviour provides that each road user must act in such a way that road traffic is smooth, calm and safe. It is also important to have a second principle, which provides that any road traffic participant who complies with traffic rules has the right to expect other or other road users to comply with road safety rules. Thirdly, this is the principle of the protection of weaker road users, while stressing in particular the duty of all road users to care for weaker road users, such as children, older people, blind people, disabled persons and others who are unable to participate independently in road transport. Any road traffic participant wishes to have a transport system that meets his needs and expectations. The quality of life depends to a large extent also on safe mobility, and therefore road transport is also the responsibility of a country which has the necessary levers, with which, in addition to an individual, it has an indirect or direct impact on this area. We are therefore introducing a number of major changes that are reflected in the development of transport, while at the same time adapting a number of changes or provisions of the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u124	Today we are deciding again and finally on the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act. In the previous week, the Non-Aligned Members took a confirmatory position on the proposal. Most of the solutions are those that we proposed in a different composition at the time and have already advocated in the previous term. Some of the proposed solutions are still somewhat upgraded today, and some new ones are added, but they are more than welcome. Possibility of turning right at the red light on the traffic light, regulating driving with electric skiers, using protective bicycle helmets and so on. Transport is also changing and adapting to new transport technologies, and it is also appropriate that it be followed by the National Assembly as a legislator. As already pointed out, as regards the driving of autonomous vehicles or the testing of automated vehicles in road transport, it is worth noting the findings of the Slovenian Automotive Motorway, which has been working with partners from foreign countries since 2017 to explore the area of autonomous driving. Research shows that the attitude of Slovenian road users towards autonomous vehicles is mostly positive, which means that Slovenians too are following the development of cars and that we expect the development of autonomous vehicles to have a positive impact on transport safety in the future. We know that opinions on the appropriateness of reducing speeding fines are shared. Notwithstanding the adopted amendment in the second reading, which has allowed some fines to be reduced, we call on all road users to take account of traffic safety and to protect themselves and all other participants. However, it is on the shoulders of the competent institutions that complementary measures will also be implemented to improve transport safety, which will contribute to this transport safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are currently in the legislative process, which is supported by the urgent amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act, in our view, in the main proceedings of the Home Committee and the second reading in the National Assembly. This is what we will do today in the final adoption of the law. Transport changes are so close because of the rapid development of technology, infrastructure and people's thinking that the law currently in force urgently needs some refreshments if the legal provisions of life and time are to be appropriate. The Novela follows the basic objectives of the transport security policy in Slovenia, meaning to reduce traffic accidents with material damage, with the injured and the dead. The proposed solutions in the law relate to a wide range of traffic, means of transport, road users, disabled persons, traffic signalling, harmonisation of the meanings of individual vehicles, extension of the power of psychophysical status of drivers, use of helmets in light motor vehicles, marking of persons on the road, and all the way to fines for offences and others. Particular attention is also paid to taking into account the importance of special lighting and sound signs of vehicles with an advantage. The Road Traffic Rules Act lays down traffic rules for road traffic and the powers and sanctions imposed by the competent authorities in the implementation of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the law must be written according to the measure of all participants in transport. In particular, the aim must be to ensure that there are at least one unforeseeable event on our roads and transport areas, in particular, at least traffic accidents, especially those involving weaker road users, such as pedestrians, children, cyclists, older persons and disabled persons. We are also of the opinion that any traffic accident caused, especially those caused, with severe consequences such as disability and death, a heavy burden on the budget or public finances and irreparable damage, and a tragedy for its victims and victims. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome the way in which the amendment of the law has been drawn up, since the proposals have involved both local communities and the Public Agency for Transport Safety and many others, whose proposals have been largely taken into account. We welcome and support the reduction in speeding penalties, which will be newly comparable to European countries and, above all, appropriate. We are also of the opinion that merely imposing a penalty or restrictive criminal policy does not have the desired effects, so we have supported the coalition's amendment to Article 16 which has made it possible to reduce fines. However, the penalties for the use of mobile phones are increasing, mainly because the driver’s concentration is significantly decreasing. A right turn is introduced in the red light if the direction is free, which will increase the flow of traffic. We also help people with disabilities to have a guaranteed parking space with higher fines for violators. Finally, cyclists are heard, which will be safer on the roads, as a meter and a half of the safety distance is introduced when overtaking. At the time of the adoption of the new Law on Road Traffic Rules, we believe that there will be a need to further strengthen education and prevention activities in the areas of driving speed, alcohol and drugs, in drivers and passengers in vehicles and in general, in transport, with particular emphasis on young drivers and also in the case of multiple infringements. At the same time, the most frequent and intensive emphasis should be placed on and awareness of all participants, respect for road traffic regulations, tolerance and respect for each other, especially vulnerable groups such as children, older people, pedestrians, bikers and disabled people. Let us not forget, however, that adequate and modern infrastructure is essential for greater transport security, for which, together with the government and the ministry, we are working to finally get our place in the budget and the resources of the European Union. The law, which includes many new and very welcome changes, will be Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party [[sign for the end of the debate]] unanimously supported. At the same time, allow me, on behalf of our entire Group of Members, to wish all participants safe steps and happy miles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The positions of the Marjan Sarca Group will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u128	Thank you, Vice President, for your word, a nice greeting to everyone again. In the LMŠ Group today, we would like to reiterate that the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act could be an example of how legislation should be adopted in our National Assembly. Let me remind you that the amendment tabled by the Government in the legislative procedure was amended in the second reading, i.e. at the parent committee, by amendments, so improved, in our opinion, and the reformed legal text has become the fruit of both the coalition and the opposition contribution. For the LMŠ Group, it was crucial that we deleted an article on the Committee under the law which, in our view, unjustifiably and professionally unjustifiably reduced the speedy driving penalty without at the same time accepting any other foreign sanction that would provide dissuasive effect. This amendment has made the law a good one, with the deletion of this article, but unfortunately, the coalition parliamentary group has again proposed the adoption of the already deleted article at the plenary session and the reduction of the speedy driving penalty has been re-added to the novel. It is probably not too much to repeat that the high speed of driving is one of the most common reasons for accidents, and it is probably not too much to repeat that in a settlement when a child runs after a stray ball on the road, just 10 kilometers too fast driving can mean the difference between life and death. In the LMŠ Group of Members, we have always pointed out the danger of a headless and unwarranted reduction of monetary penalties in road transport, especially when driving too quickly, because the psychological effect of such a reduction in monetary penalties, when the participants are already used on the road, has already been internalised, without at the same time prescribing any other side penalty that would, as it is said, provide a deterrent effect, in such a case the psychological effect may be very negative. Prior to this, the reduction of penalties will result in a lower level of road safety than vice versa. In our view, this amendment should therefore be deleted from the law, but unfortunately we have been overheard in our warnings. This is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the LMŠ Group, although it is a relatively good novelty of the law, but when it comes to weighing between €250 lower monetary penalties and, on the other hand, to the potential greater risk of road users, the answer is clear to us. It is not acceptable to lower road safety at any cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The positions of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u130	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, a warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry. Although we have a few reservations about individual solutions to the Social Democrats, it is particularly about extending the powers of municipal officials and road overseers, and we will not oppose the law. The reason is simple. Two of our supplements were accepted, which deleted two potentially unconstitutional solutions. That's why we're going to abstain from marriage. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He's not here, the Left won't be introduced by Michael Prevc, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u132	President, thank you for the floor, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Road Traffic Rules Act amends and complements transport rules with the aim of enhancing the safety of all road users. The Ministry of Infrastructure has drawn up a proposal for a law in the context of coordination with a number of stakeholders and has also included proposals from local communities, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for transport safety and other sector ministries. As one of the important instruments of greater traffic safety, the law proposes a stricter handling of drivers during driving, which reduces the hearing or visual perception or ability to control a vehicle in the context of this change, the use of mobile phones during driving will be much more severely sanctioned. The bill also highlights the stricter treatment of drivers who do not take into account the importance of the special lighting and sound signs which vehicles have with advantage and the stricter treatment of drivers who join the vehicle with or even overtake the vehicle. Given that more and more bikers have been involved in the market in recent years, the law provides for an appropriate lateral distance of 1.5 metres in overcoming bikers, light motorcycles and moped drivers. The conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic, including wheelchairs and skippers and electric rollers, shall also be laid down. It is suggested that only persons older than 14 years of age may drive on a bicycle route or on the right side of a road in a village where the speed is limited to 50 kilometres per hour. A more rapid development of traffic to the traffic crossing will be accompanied by a proposal to allow the right to turn at the red light at the traffic light if it is added a traffic sign for driving at the red light and, of course, if it is free. Finally, the bill reduces some fines for lower speed limits in the area of calmed traffic, pedestrian areas, areas of common transport, areas of limited speed on the road, in the settlement, on the road outside the settlement and on the highway and on the fast road. It was found that the very level of the penalty does not affect traffic safety, and much greater emphasis should be given to education, prevention and safe traffic behaviour. I am sure that all Members here in this Chamber are united, that the number of deaths and grave injuries in traffic accidents must be reduced. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we advocate the view that transport safety must cover the weakest in traffic, namely pedestrians, cyclists and disabled people. It is therefore necessary to accelerate the construction and regulation of cycling and pedestrians in particular and to remove architectural and communication barriers in public places. We are pleased to note that there has been a great deal of work to be done in this area in recent times, and particular attention must be paid to raising children, especially in terms of learning the rules of road transport, behaviour in transport and towards a healthy way of mobility. Members of the NS will, of course, unanimously support the Road Traffic Rules Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u134	Your Honor! We have yet to consider a third consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which is intended primarily to provide a legal basis for the safe use of modern vehicle types in our road transport, while at the same time regulating certain existing relations between offences and fines, extending the powers of authorised persons and updating certain other restrictions. The proposed law is understood as part of an effort to create legislation to the extent possible for road users and as a desire to ensure a high level of transport safety. As it is said, the novelty of the law provides an essential legal basis for the participation of light motor vehicles in road transport. The draft law may define motor vehicles as motor vehicles not exceeding 80 cm in width and whose design speed does not exceed 25 km per hour. Despite the fact that we are such vehicles with special emphasis on electric skiers, we have increasingly met in our traffic until today the conditions of their participation have not been clearly specified. The amendment introduces clear rules on where and under what conditions all such vehicles can be used. However, certain legal provisions, such as the introduction of a system of charging court fees in cases of infringements, regulate fair conditions for modern and sustainable modes of transport, such as the so-called car sharing or shared use of vehicles among users. The position of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the amendment of the law remains unchanged remains that laws in force in road transport need to be updated on a regular basis, not only in modern logistics trends but also technological updates that have a direct impact on the behaviour of road users. The bill contains sound solutions that approach modern road transport problems in an appropriate way, and I will also unanimously support the amendment of the law on the basis of the one mentioned in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u136	Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members before leave. The law brings many good solutions before us, which should bring more order to Slovenian roads, traffic flow and, of course, security at this point, I stress that much of the law has already been created under the tactics of previous Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratusek in on this we are very proud of in the SAB. Under its ministry, as one basic solution, the amended regime referred to the penalties for the use of mobile phones during driving and the regulation of the use of e-scrolls. Both matters are a necessary and welcome change. Unfortunately, the use of telephones at the wheel does not fall despite numerous warnings, so the legislator was obliged to proceed with the amendments to the penalty. This measure in the SAB welcomes the fact that the use of a mobile phone reduces the driver's concentration and his attention to road traffic. The use of a mobile phone during driving also increases the risk of accidents, so it is appropriate to take an appropriate approach to limiting the use. It is also very important to regulate the use of e-skiroes, which have become a popular urban means of transport, as they are convenient, environmentally friendly and can do more than 10 km of loading alone. On the other hand, the size of electric skiers was not followed by legislation. Today's proposal thus lays down the conditions for driving light motor vehicles, including electric skiers. It will be interesting to monitor how these provisions will come to life in practice, as conditions differ considerably from those on the ground. The riders of light motor vehicles will have to ride on a new bike lane, cycling track or cycling routes, so no more on sidewalks and surfaces on foot. One of the solutions that people have been looking forward to is howling right next to the red light. The ministry here has contributed its part of the accuracy of transport, and now the responsibility is to drive carefully and cautiously on drivers, which we will have to carry out this measure with caution and without obsessiveness. Here again, we need to warn against the apparently popular solutions the Infrastructure Minister wants to bring to the public. We were disturbed by the reduction of fines to exceed the speed limit in virtually all areas and almost all restrictions. This is seen as a solution that is not favourable to the level of safety, even dangerous. Although an amendment was voted on by the competent committee, which abolished the reduction of fines, the coalition machine confirmed last Friday with a new supplement. Unfortunately, you have not convinced us, a respected coalition, that the high penalties for exceeding the speed limit do not reach their purpose and that is why you have reduced them. We can also read in explanation for the contested amendment that the fines are reduced in accordance with the principle of proportionality, with a comparison given to Germany. Let me say that German penalties are indeed lower than Slovenian, but they are compensated by shorter prohibitions on motor vehicles. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that Germany was well below the average of the European Union in 2019 with 37 deaths per million people. Slovenia is just 49 seconds below it. Therefore, the comparison with Germany did not work out very well. Let us look at some more concrete cases of lowering fines. The accepted amendment foresees a reduction in the fine when someone in a calmed traffic area where a limit of 20 km/h applies exceeds that limit by 20 to 30 km/h. A quiet traffic area bears such a name for a reason, and there is no need to reward someone who brings 50 per hour at 20 for such a ride with a lower penalty. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Secretary of State Michelič reminded us, however, that low-income people will find such punishment difficult to afford. We agree, it's not about low amounts, but it's very simple. [[…]] Regardless of social status, we have to drive according to the rules. The same applies to the reduction of the fine to exceed the allowed speed in a settlement where the limit is 50 per hour and the driver can drive even 100. We're aware [[a character for turning off the microphone]] What effect can it have when someone comes through the village at such a speed? I can't even think about it. To conclude; the law is basically good, so we regret that this image is expressed by the populists, even irresponsible solutions could be said. Because of the coalition's adopted amendment last week, we will not support it in the SAB. Safety in traffic comes first, only then wishes and pleasures for drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-80.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law [[There's a riot in the hall.]] . Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. I also inform you before we vote that if there is to be, we have another decision after this decision to adopt so that you do not leave the Chamber. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, with 46.1 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopts the following decision: “The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Road Traffic Rules Act.” We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 80th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
