ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 59th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2), Article 60(2) and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 92nd meeting. 1. 2021. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Maša Kociper, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Marko Bandelli, mag. Andrej Reich, Franc Jurša, Soniboj Knezak, Matjaž Han, Samo Bevk, Felice Žiža, Brane Golubović, Igor Peček, Jani Möderndorfer and Aljaž Kovacič. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation shall not be announced by any Member or Member at a meeting outside the seat of the National Assembly using an application for remote meetings. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In line with paragraph 2 and 4a of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly by reference and shall not be voted on. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the motion for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on additional measures to favour the consequences of the cvid-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u2	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The Act on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19 on which the Government has proposed, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 21a of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative of the National Assembly, the adoption of a decision establishing the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum, further mitigating and remedying the consequences of a natural accident, communicable diseases covid-19, as it provides for measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19 in the field of health and social protection and assistance to the economy. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, a mass outbreak of communicable disease is also considered a natural disaster. The exceptional situation faced by the Republic of Slovenia at the outbreak of covida-19, which required an immediate response by the State, results from both historical sources which show that the expected consequences of this epidemic are not comparable to any events in history since II. World War II. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development announced a 6.6 per cent reduction in GDP in the winter forecast of economic trends for 2020 and the Bank of Slovenia forecasts a 7.6% decline in economic growth for 2020. The measures are therefore urgently needed to maximise GDP growth in 2021 and without measures, economic growth will be lower. The Bank of Slovenia predicts 3.1% and 4.5% economic growth for 2021 and 2022, assuming that appropriate state measures are adopted or maintained, which also play a major role in maintaining a stable labour market situation. The Act on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19 provides a legal basis for the mitigation and elimination of covid-19 effects. This Act lays down measures to ensure that, as soon as possible, the effects of covid-19 on a wide range of beneficiaries are mitigated by measures which have been taken in the process of preparing the draft law to adapt to the situation in relation to covid-19 and the movement of the economy, both in the field of economy, social protection and health care, work and working relations. The specific objectives of the proposed measures are to maintain the jobs and operations of enterprises, to relieve employers of social security contributions to workers in the labour force, to extend the waiting measure, to provide SID funds to the bank for the purposes of financing road transport operators, to guarantee the SID of the bank in the field of tourism and hospitality, to provide solidarity for beneficiaries of disability benefits working in the form of shorter working hours, war veterans and disabled persons under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, to ensure the implementation of an extension of treatment for students over 18 years of age, to students who are educated abroad, to unemployed persons; to provide for exposure to danger and special burden to members of civil protection, to ensure the extension of treatment of health care, physiotherapy and working therapy to persons who have been infected with the disease of post-19, to ensure the provision of medicines with disabilities and to social security. The measures are of a temporary nature, as they regulate the content associated with covid-19 and follow the principle of protecting the health and life of people and ensuring liquidity for economic operators. In the light of the uncertainty about the consequences of covid-19, which appear throughout the world, the legislator does not only have the right but also the duty to adapt legislation to the social situation in question and to amend it if this is dictated by the changed social relations. The urgent measures taken by the State to mitigate and address the negative effects of covid-19 on the population and the economy must be as effective as possible and their implementation must be swift. The Act on additional measures to mitigate the consequences of covid-19 constitutes an additional emergency and temporary measure, allowing for immediate effective relief and remedying the consequences of the natural disaster in the Republic of Slovenia, both for the population and the economy. The Act on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19 thus refers to the content in respect of which, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible because the law in question constitutes the Law on Emergency Measures to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. The position will be presented by Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given that we have been discussing the eighth anti-Korona package in the National Assembly for two days in a row, I will be very brief in this position on the admissibility or inadmissibility of the referendum invitation to the said law. As has already been said, the eighth package is aimed in particular at preserving jobs, the labour market and helping the economy. At the same time, we have not forgotten about the most vulnerable groups, such as veterans and disabled people. These will receive €150 of the solidarity allowance. In all eight packages, we have already distributed a huge amount of aid not only to the economy and tourism, but also to the people directly. With the CAP8 we extended the subsidisation of waiting for work at least until the end of April 2021. The state will take over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. Employers will receive a 50-euro subsidy for those who do not receive a minimum wage without supplements. The government also went against the unions and eliminated the unequal treatment of employees in payment of the 200 euro crisis allowance. All private sector workers will thus be entitled to the payment of the crisis allowance following the application of the CAP8. It is therefore necessary to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic on society as a whole. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum invitation to the Law on additional measures to mitigate the consequences with regard to covid-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President for your word. Nice hello to you all! Today, the government of Janez Janša is ahead of us, once again putting forward a proposal for a decision to re-enact our citizens and citizens with the referendum initiative. The fact that the referendum initiative of citizens is a constitutional category has been highlighted several times. The fact that such a constitutional right can be restricted only exceptionally and, only when necessary, we have already stressed it several times. Finally, the fact that there is a great potential for abuse of such restrictions on the referendum initiative has been pointed out in the LMŠ Group at the outset. The ruling coalition no longer looks at any of the above. Today, they will be banned from speaking again in advance, for example, to all students who do not agree that the eighth anti-Korona package has overlooked them and that it does not provide for the compensation for the loss of income from the student work. They will ban all small entrepreneurs who do not agree that the eighth anti-Korona package does not allow them to survive. They will prohibit all those owners of companies who are prohibited from carrying out their activities by a government decree, but they do not agree that the same government is equivalent to companies that can still carry out their activities. They will ban all students who do not agree that the President of the Government voluntarily and arbitrarily restricts or directs admissions to colleges. In the form of a ban on the referendum initiative, honourable members of the government coalition will be prohibited from speaking to all those who disagree with your policy in any way. This is just another way in a series of your actions, where individuals who do not agree with your agenda or who do not write according to your true legal opinion try to silence or disable, regardless of the means or damage you are causing. Since the objective justifies the means for you, you have once again taken more courage in intervention legislation, which is intended to address only and only the consequences of the second wave of covid epidemic, to impose a new subcontractor in the form of a criminal provision. Despite the fact that the obvious repression is not one to ensure a reduction in the number of infected or no lower number of dead, your political appetite is too strong. Despite all legal warnings that criminal law must be specified, predictable and defined in the right legal act, you have legislated an offence where the prohibited acts have not yet been defined, and when defined, they will be determined in a programme that can be voluntarily amended by the Director of the NIJ or even by the Minister of Health. The very nature of such an offence is very controversial from the point of view of the rule of law and constitutional democracy, but such content is the subject of some kind of intervention law that has been passed practically overnight and against which you will ban the referendum initiative is scandalous, to say the least. The level you want to bring our country and our society to is very low and very worrying. Under the pretext of saving the country from the epidemic, you shut your mouth to citizens in the form of a ban on the referendum initiative, creating a society of repression and disrupting the legal system. We will not participate in this in the LMŠ Group, we will never participate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Master Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u8	Mr President, fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State, a nice greeting to the other Members! Social Democrats will not support the conclusion that the referendum is not admissible. We think that people should decide on the errors contained in the eighth anti-Korona package. Let me begin by saying that the money shared with this package is EUR 320 million, not money from Mrs State Secretary's wallet, ministers or ministers. This isn't the money from the coalition's wallets. This is not really the money that Slovenia currently has or is hidden in natural resources. This is the money we're going to borrow, and this 320 million we're going to pay back, our children are going to return, and, very likely, our grandchildren and grandchildren. Therefore, every euro that we spend in order to burden our grandchildren must be used as rationally as possible. I would also like to say right away that the Social Democrats support the intervention programme because of the hardship in which we are in order to facilitate, in particular, the situation of people, as well as of societies as a whole, including the economy, but every euro must be considered. What did we get with the eighth package? The most important measure, we could not even discuss it in a way that we could vote because it is commercially impossible, i.e. a measure that – like other countries that have success – returns 100 percent to those who wait for it to not be in the workplace, which does not then motivate them to come before the end of the disease or in a way that they simply do not recognise because they need money, to work, but to stay where necessary, isolated in quarantine – this measure is not here either. This is, however, the most effective measure abroad. Then some injustices. Imagine people over 55 who are unemployed. They didn't get any help right now, but maybe they need it the most. Most Members and Members voted against such a measure. Imagine how students and students feel when they receive help from students and students in the first packages, although this country admits that students, because some also grant state scholarships to study abroad, have not been recognised as students and have not received nor received a spring or not late autumn of 150 euros. Even on our initiative, I suppose these students came in the eighth anti-Korona package, but again in an evil way. As if they were students of second, third category, not like other Slovenian students who received 300 euros. There aren't many. According to the OECD, since Slovenian statistics are not available at this time, there are slightly more than 2 000 700. And they weren't granted the same status. And it's not a lot of money, it's just a relationship with our people, that they're all first-class and no one second-class. Again, because you did not listen and supported the opposition's amendments, they were considered second-rate. But the worst thing that's in this eighth package is something that should never have happened: that this package non-systemically prescribes punishment for something that has not yet been specified. It prescribes a penalty in the area most problematic at this time, in the field of probably vaccination, if someone, talking about economic, business entities, does not hold a programme that has not yet been written and will be prepared by a professional institution, the National Institute for Public Health. This is about the same as the professional programme on traffic offences prepared by the Automoto Association of Slovenia. In any case, it is clear to everyone that the Auto-Moto programme of the Association of Slovenia cannot be the programme under which citizens and citizens will be punished. But if Mr. Krek prepares the program and is signed by anyone who will be Minister at that time, it's something else. But it really isn't. I believe that many in Slovenia will want to check such a provision in the Constitutional Court. Members and Members have no right to say that it is unconstitutional, we can only suspect that it is unconstitutional, but we have warned about it. And then, if this is known as unconstitutional, we'll ask you again if you remember the moment we warned you. So the Social Democrats cannot support the fact that people would not have the right to say their opinion at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Procedurally, Comrade Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u10	Have a nice hello to you all. Today I would like to inform the Slovenian public that we have a new member of the parliamentary group, Mr Breznik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u11	Comrade Reich, this is not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u12	I am very glad that in our society he feels good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u13	Comrade Reich, look, this is a reminder. Please refrain from such matters, in particular, I would warn you, Comrade Reich, that after most of today's session your Member's soup has apologized. My colleague Žnidarič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u15	Can I have some quiet, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u16	Dear Secretary of State! The situation in our country, which has been the subject of a new coronavirus since March of last year, still requires us to take intervention measures. As in recent months, the purpose of the law drawn up by the Government is clear; it is an appropriate response and early action and the taking of the necessary measures for the economy and individuals with a view to mitigating the consequences of the epidemic, carrying out certain economic activities which are prohibited due to the epidemiological image, and some are carried out on a substantially reduced scale. These restrictions have had negative consequences in the economy and consequently affect the material and social situation of citizens and citizens. Therefore, the eighth anti-Korona legislative package is certainly welcome and necessary, as it will contribute significantly through a number of measures to remedy the negative consequences of the epidemic in the area of economy, the labour market, labour relations and social and health care. As we have pointed out at the time of the adoption of the law at the meeting of the National Assembly, this time too, aid comes at the right time and responds to the still grueling challenges of many social groups, which we owe them in these difficult times. In an emergency situation and in the emergency situation we are witnessing, it is necessary to advocate for the early implementation of intervention laws and the immediate implementation of measures that are good for our citizens and which provide them with the necessary assistance. We will therefore support the proposal for a decision in the SMC Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u18	Anti-Korona measures under any government should be pursued with two fundamental priorities: to help people who are in social distress in the situation of the epidemic and to prevent the spread of the epidemic itself. Unfortunately, the government of Janez Janša deals with everything else, only what it should not. Also, there are some social groups that John Janša clearly does not like. Let's put our students first. Even in anti-korona 8 they are still waiting for support for survival, because they can no longer live in these conditions from their student work, there are as many as 20,000 students in this country who are dependent on their work as students. Let us continue with workers who are organized as independent entrepreneurs. It is questionable which of them can even receive a measure called the basic income for espacies. As we have heard in the debate, even those who receive this basic income end up struggling with few resources to help them survive. The number with which the debate served is EUR 200. After all, a large proportion of infections spread directly to jobs, as confirmed by the National Institute for Public Health with the information it published in November last year. The engine that drives infections in jobs in the economy is presentism in industrial zones. Workers also go to work when they are infected, even when they exhibit minimal symptoms. Not only because they are forced into the workplace by employers, but also because the Government does not want to protect them in any way with full compensation in the event of an infection and in the case of their hospital, as they did, for example, Germany, Austria and Croatia. At today's meeting, we decide whether or not to ban the referendum from PKP8 people, so it is more reasonable to focus on the things that have occurred in PKP8 and should not be in there. After all, these things are the fundamental reason why once again the government of John Janša is in such a hurry to ban the referendum. First, let's touch the area of minimum wage. 50 euros per month for each minimum salary paid will be paid to employers – a direct subsidy from the state budget. This is a policy to promote low, lowest possible wages in this country. Regardless of whether a company works well in the crown and does not need assistance, it will receive these €50. However, those employers who are prepared and able to pay higher wages than the minimum will receive nothing even if the minimum wage level exceeds one euro. This directly subsidises and encourages the most unproductive capital in the country and literally forces the economy to pay even lower wages than the minimum, including this state subsidy. And as if this reward was not yet enough, the government would also resolve the profits of the largest capital with cuts in contributions to the pension and health allowance for those employers who pay the minimum wages. Yeah, you heard right. In the midst of the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years, the government has been reducing payments to the health treasury, which in this country is funding materials and services in health care to protect the profits of its friends. These are all the reasons why the referendum should not be taken away from people. Let's not forget the last rat we found in PKP8. These are penalties, which also amount to €100,000, entered in the PKP8 for various legal persons, on the basis of an act that is not really there. Also, when this act, supposedly connected with vaccination, comes — do you know who will prepare it? Janez Janša as Minister of Health and Milan Krek at the NIJZ Summit will sign this document and then the government of Janez Janša will be able to impose penalties on them on the basis of this signature. We will vote in Levica against the re-banning of the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The measures we have taken in the CAP8 reduce the adverse effects of the epidemic on the economy and the population, track labour market needs and save jobs. Among the most important measures are the taking of part of the costs of raising minimum wages. We believe that workers and honest workers deserve a decent salary – and net wages in Slovenia are too low. On the other hand, we understand employers who will carry the heavy part of a minimum wage raise. Therefore, we have proposed that the rise in the minimum wage should be temporarily subsidised by the State to employers. The second, very important measure, is the extension of the waiting period from 1 February to 30 April, with the possibility of an extension until 30 June. Job conservation is crucial for faster recovery once the measures to prevent coronary disease have been released and the economy will be able to operate with full steam. I am pleased that, with all the measures so far, we have prevented a significant increase in unemployment in Slovenia, as shown by the statistics of the European Union when we were 4.7% of unemployment in December at 7th in the European Union. With measures also addressed by the law, we are saving 300,000 jobs because we are aware that the economy will help alleviate the economic crisis. With CAP8, we have also corrected some of the shortcomings of the previous anti-Korona law. Thus, all full-year students, students studying abroad, who have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, 150 euros, persons with very low incomes, and those who have lost their jobs during the time of restrictive measures due to the epidemic, from 12 March 2020 to the entry into force of this law, will receive a solidarity allowance of EUR 150. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedying the consequences of natural disasters, to which we may also consider an epidemic of coronavirus. When we weigh between the right to a referendum on the one hand and the fate of the people on the other, this time we must weigh in favour of saving our citizens in these times of crisis. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we welcome the decision of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21a of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, to determine that the referendum is not admissible. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help to come to individuals and businesses as soon as possible. Every day of behavior would be too much in these times. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! With a view to ensuring a legal basis for the speedy implementation of the Law on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19, we are again faced with a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. The proposal for a law, according to the Government, represents an urgent measure that will allow for immediate and effective relief and recovery of the consequences and the impact of covid-19 infectious disease. It is both good and good if, as always, the Government does not include in the intervention proposal legal provisions which are not in any way related to the covid-19 epidemic and which have a grave impact on the system's legislation. Otherwise, we welcome the fact that the Government has addressed the difficult economic situation and has extended some measures that have proved to be effective, such as measures in the field of motor vehicles – for example. However, we cannot claim this for a measure to pay contributions to the social security of religious officials, in addition to all the other aid that the RCC has already received in one way or another. The Government has also deleted on the Committee the supplement adopted, which was adopted in order to protect the university. The university, which our ancestors, the intellectuals of the day, the professors, the doctors and the doctors had put up with with a great deal of trouble – it was much harder to make this happen. The current ruling coalition, however, does not recognise obvious knowledge and knowledge as a stand-alone and autonomous value that cannot be prescribed by order of daily political or economic needs. It does not recognise Article 58 of the Constitution, which expressly lays down the autonomy of state universities and universities and guarantees the freedom of science and art, nor the Higher Education Act, which expressly prescribes the autonomy of higher education institutions. The CAP is also interfering with the very democratic foundations of our country. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides, at the outset of Articles 1 and 2, that Slovenia is a democratic republic and a rule of law. There is no democracy without the rule of law. From the Magna Carta forward, the Great Charter of Freedoms from the Long Years of 1215, the Constitutions and laws are here to protect and protect the rights and freedoms and the dignity of people, citizens and citizens against the will of power. Before willfulness and arbitrariness in the determination of penalties for an unspecified act. This is in direct contravention of the principle of legality in criminal law and Article 28 of the Constitution, which states specifically that no one shall be punished for an offence which has not been defined by law as a criminal offence and is not subject to a prescribed penalty before the act has been committed. All the contentious provisions remaining in the legislative text are also disputed in the light of the excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum and thus an intervention in the right to referendum. It would really be necessary to have a thorough joint reflection on whether all the content of the draft law really represents only the necessary measures provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution. Clearly, the current authority does not trust its own people. We are disappointed that coalition parties have not recognized the necessity of deleting all these disputed provisions, nor has our proposal that the coalition not even supported our amendment to provide three free masks for all over 65 years of age. We will not support this proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the proposed legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I wish everyone a good-bye! The draft law on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19 was confirmed on the working body on Monday night by a majority of votes. The bill was reconfirmed the following day or night on the plenary, as was the case with most Members present. The next procedural step was taken today by the Council of State, which also decided by a majority vote that it would not require a re-decision on the bill. The conditions for the full implementation of the measures adopted under PKP8 constitute the fact that it is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and the belief that no mechanism will be included that might delay its application for a period of time. Therefore, the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum is also considered as an accompanying act for all PKPs. This time, too, when PKP8 is adopted, this is no specialty. And this time, too, Members of Desus will support the proposed proposal for a decision. However, the reasons for our decision are only as follows. Members of the Desus Group wish and hope that measures will be put in place as soon as possible: extending the subsidy of waiting for work by the end of April with the possibility of extension, lifting part of the burden to employers due to an increase in the minimum wage of EUR 50 in the second half of this year, the single solidarity allowances for full-year students, for students educated abroad, for beneficiaries of disability benefits working on shorter working hours, for war veterans and disabled persons. Furthermore, the extension of assistance to road and rail operators, extended treatment, medical care, physiotherapy and working therapy for older people who need additional hospital treatment after their illness, and for those who cannot be released into the home environment, and other measures included in the adopted CAP8. The implementation and application of all these measures is more than necessary. It is essential that we fill the time gap in the continuation of the measures and thus prevent the irreparable consequences that could have been caused by delay and that it is necessary to help individual companies immediately. Would, at this point, launching a referendum procedure as the ultimate means of democracy and as a result of deciding on anti-Korona packages with only “for” or “against” actually help to eradicate and ultimately destroy the evil virus, to pardon the consequences it leaves in all areas of our lives, to improve the situation of people and the economy? In our Group of Members, we do not think so. It is imperative that the assistance comes to the people as soon as possible, so, as has already been said, the Members of our parliamentary group will support the proposal for the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum on the so-called anti-korona package 8. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. I'm informing you that I've got some cancellations. So, the following Members were also announced: Rudy Medved, Robert Pavšič and Tina Heferle. So he's got the word Rudy Pavšič. No, I'm sorry, Rudy Bear. Rudy Bear, I'm not gonna name anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Respected and respected! The referendum is certainly a test of democracy, but the referendum is also a test of the ability to perform. It's a real test, it's not a fake test that the operators in the fight against the epidemic have caused total confusion, the government's pulse light in all its colors, and it certainly doesn't show the true epidemiological situation in the country. An example of such confusion is the mountain region or the savanna region, for example, which in a few days came from the red one in black and overnight from the black to the orange. No one in the country knows how positive this moment really is. Therefore, this government does not want the referendum as a test of the probative capacity of the government. Insecure tests that create some general confusion suit her, for confusion suits her. And this week's picture, and we're only good over half, is a picture of this whole epidemic crisis -- a little positive, a little negative, it's a great terrain for manipulating restrictive measures. And that in the country where epidemiologists, I heard it on the radio this morning, they say we have a unique, unique curve of infection in the world. Yeah, that's not weird. Why can't I support the decision banning the PKP referendum8? For exactly the same reasons as the first seven. Because it's in every single one, but it's in every decision of the coalition that's mature for the referendum, and that's what it is. However, the provision in PKP8, which provides for drastic penalties for violations of measures that are not yet in place for unknown offences, is known, so the penalty is known, we do not know what measures, we do not know what offences, but this provision wins in the entire fleet of eight PKP laws. That is why there should be a referendum, even if only after the situation permits it, but people should tell the authorities that they are making literally insane decisions to legislate a madness that has nothing to do with real life, but on the other hand how it affects people's lives. Well, there's obviously something wrong with traffic lights in this country and tests are needed. One stoplight works, and it measures the degree of democracy and the effectiveness of this government. On it, on this traffic light, for a long, long time, the red light shines. If I finish with probably the most frequently heard phrase in the last bad year of the day: the next 14 days will be decisive. And this time it's not a phrase.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Today we have heard a number of substantive reasons for the necessity of adopting a referendum ban. If we look back just 10 months, then we've heard this necessity at least eight times or seven times, if we're talking about anti-korona packages and some other laws, but it's already a matter of other meetings. And then one begins to wonder a little, as important a proposal or action as the inadmissibility of the referendum comes to the defense of the Secretary of State — with all due respect. The hearing was also denied by the State Council, which means only one thing, that you expect this to be a new normality now, so that such important matters will be tried to be quickly placed under the carpet in the sense of intervention and the urgency of taking measures. They may have been urgent seven times, but they can't be eight times, and they'll probably be next time until we accept the PKP2 million. We are talking about the prohibition of fundamental constitutional rights, the right to self-determination of the people! It's not that simple. It is obvious that some in this room either do not want to know whether they are completely self - critical or not to listen because they do not care because someone has decided not to make a decision. In fact, it proves the government's multi-layer censorship in all areas. Only in the last few days have we been able to monitor that the Government of Communications will decide who can speak, today we decide that neither citizens nor citizens will be allowed to speak. It is forbidden to socialize, and it is forbidden to cross certain fictitious boundaries between municipalities marked only by tablets, and this is the madness of some new normality. By realizing that this new normality does not create a virus, the government creates it, and then it bears responsibility to others. Today, the responsibility will be taken by the National Assembly, not on my behalf, I will vote against it. And when it creates a mistake, the government fixes it, and once it fixes the thing that it has supported itself with that part of the body, where the back loses its decent name, then everything is fine. Just in the last few cases, let's remember we're not going 10 months into the past. Financing STA – Who Cooked? The government. Then who solved it? Doesn't matter who saved it. Accreditation to private universities. Who cooked them? It's likely that the Constitutional Court is going to boil or dissipate, I can't prejudge it, but at least the first sign is that something wasn't right. And now that we're at school, we don't agree to enroll in universities. I think so! First, however, the S.A. is guilty of misreporting, the epidemic, because at that time private universities cannot at any time prove that they meet the conditions and, in the case of entries, the conclusion of one person that there is too many sociologists and humanists on this world or on this piece of land, on the sunny side of the Alps. Remember who else is responsible for the situation: the opposition, because it warns people because they do not respect the measures – although I have just heard that the percentage of respect for measures in Slovenia is the same as around the world – the parents are guilty because they are loud now because children can no longer go to school and are desperate both parents and children, the media are guilty, the virus is responsible. In order to make matters worse, a story about the Slovenian strain of the virus, which is worse than all the rest of the world, has now begun to be created. And after this question is asked to the NIJS experts, they are embarrassed because they do not know how to react. You're actually making your profession so embarrassed that it's embarrassing to look at them in a camera and shame to tell the truth, and those who speak the truth get a ban on UKOM. But who leads UKOM and under whose influence it is, it is known. He's just saying his name. We are now listening – threats with additional measures. If you don't behave, we'll take you back with a bagel. Decisions are being made. Today, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all those who can travel are threatened if they fall, the Ministry will not be able to help. And information on the infected. We do not know in the last few months how much of this false data has been covered by statistics on the basis of which measures are being taken. There is only one thing that is quite clear: The government is afraid of the voice of the people, is afraid to look in the mirror, is afraid of the profession, is afraid of the credible data and therefore the greatest danger is not the virus at the moment, the biggest danger currently is the Government. And it didn't cause this chaos into a virus, this chaos caused by the government. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Would you like a word with the government's representative? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting devices, in particular whether you have cards lodged so that you have no one else. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u30	Yes, thank you for your word. Look, we'll be against it because we're all guilty of an unspecified original sin, and probably my grandson, Bakot's granddaughter, who doesn't have a year yet, and John Krek's intention is to – yes, Pojbič, just raise your hands – why they'll be guilty, and some congregation can be punished from 4,000 to 100,000 euros as if we were shitting money. Come on, wake up if you don't have any speckles! We'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u31	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mag. Mower in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I will vote absolutely against it. It does not seem right to me that this democratic right is being restricted, but the right to a referendum, and it has been ordered for the eighth time. Moreover, I also believe that this PKP8 is absolutely not what it should be. It is intended, like most of the PKPs so far, to help your friends, friends of Prime Minister Janez Janša. Let me mention that once again there is an intruder in the PKP who pays contributions to the priests and other religious officials. On the other hand, even though we asked you to do so, we begged the opposition to allow a hundred percent compensation for your absence from work, you did not want to accept it because it was impossible for you. While this is the only real measure that would actually help prevent the virus from spreading. Indeed, a number of workers cannot afford to be absent from work without receiving a hundred percent refund. Of course, you have imposed, as always, a number of authoritarian measures that threaten people who are being intimidated, punished and squandered by citizens and citizens to be guilty of this catastrophe. But it's entirely your fault, and only you, with Prime Minister Janez Janša at the head. We're champions in the world, not by success, but by mortality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Once again, the Social Democrats are constitutional patriots, committed to the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc, which historically also belonged to Christian democracy. Even as a Christian Democrat, I cannot go beyond the 114th Article of the Constitution, which very clearly defines the autonomy and responsibility of ministers and ministers in individual departments. But you know what my kids or high school kids you don't leave them at school would say, "Who the fuck is Urbani?" What UKOM will be like to the Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u35	My friend Runk, I'd like you to express yourself a little better. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u36	forbidding him to spell out what he has to put into writing after the constitution. And you support it. That's why I'm against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u37	Look, it's right that you're against it, just express yourself as culturally as possible. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Of course, I will support the proposal on the inadmissibility of the referendum. Why? True, not only does this government have many friends but it has much responsibility. This responsibility, as well as our friends, are our citizens and citizens. These friends, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are most important and should be friends of all of us, will receive additional help with this package. Both individuals and, of course, those who care for our jobs will receive additional help. Last but not least, there have been several packages and the fact is that we are very effective in Slovenia with these measures, as some other assessments also show. It is true that Slovenia is facing a severe epidemic and it is also true that various measures must be taken in the country to try to reduce these risks. But these measures are not only in Slovenia and Slovenia and therefore it is important that we do everything possible to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. And yes, I will also support this proposal because we are working more than responsible for somehow going through this crisis and going into the future with as few consequences as possible. And yes, I also support these measures because this coalition has taken over the leadership of the country at the worst possible moment, it is true to deal with an epidemic which is something new and therefore also in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia restricts the referendum. And why don't I vote for it to be a referendum now? Only because I do not want a group or individuals with some procedures to stop the assistance that is urgently needed by our citizens and citizens, our students, our children, our students and our employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u40	Thank you very much. And I will not support this decision to ban the referendum. Why? Because if I agree to the theory that our citizens, our voters, our friends, then I understand this friendship substantially differently than the Slovenian Democratic Party does. Actually, my friend, when he doesn't agree with you when he wants to do something a little different than you think, a real friend lets him talk about it. In my view, not only should we let our friends, we should let all citizens speak when they want to. In this law, it is not only matters or provisions that regulate or prevent the consequences of the second wave epidemic, but there are also many other provisions on which our citizens, yours and our friends should have the right to speak. You take this right away from them over and over and over again, I can only wonder why you're afraid of your friends. We in the opposition do not, and therefore we believe that a referendum, a referendum initiative, should be allowed. The question is, would anyone ever show up to question this law that you are so passionate about today, and if anyone ever asked for a referendum on the PKP8. But you're all scared in advance. The rhetorical question is why. Of course, I will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u42	Thank you. I too will vote against the inadmissibility of the referendum. Why is the epidemic so hard for us? Probably because the state is manipulating the data. And the more severe the epidemic, the more free he takes his hands. The tests are unreliable because they are bought by friends, the profession is quiet, Urbania decides who can represent the Ministry of Health. In short, the government acts like we know what's good for you, and you have no right not to comment on it without deciding. Although your friends in this PKP8 are once again very well rewarded, unlike the citizens who should also be your friends, you give the Church enormous, enormous credit to church officials, who I will tell them are not employees, but are something else, they are richly at the expense of all citizens; small entrepreneurs have to pay their own costs and ultimately they have enough to survive, and entrepreneurs are those who pay the country. Not to mention the punishments you're considering for some unknown sins. Then students studying abroad, then reduced payments to health and pension bills. Right when we're having the biggest epidemic, you're giving discharges where it's unacceptable. You will also close your mouth to citizens and citizens and prohibit the constitutional right to a referendum. Unacceptable, shameful. To the end and to the point of shame! I do not understand how you can look in the mirror, but I hope that the day will come when citizens and citizens will demand responsibility and you will have to defend yourself for your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u43	Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. I will vote against the inadmissibility of the referendum for a simple reason. I have come to the conclusion that I am probably an asymptomatic victim of a particularly powerful Slovenian strain of virus, which is so powerful that instead of hurting my breathing, it has damaged my brain and I can't understand at all, but I really can't understand, say, the intervention of 100,000 Euros of high punishment for something that has not yet been defined. I guess there's something really wrong with me that I don't understand because you're probably right. Since the government has power in the new Republic and not the people, it is clear to me that I am only a poor man with a damaged brain who does not understand this in any way. However, I am not able to discuss the other measures at all, and the situation is so bad with me. Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u46	In PKP8, we can read again about things that have no place in the anti-korona operation. For example, in PKP8, the government of Janez Janša cuts contributions to the health treasury and thus the volume of funds involved in the financing of material and health services – we are in the middle of an epidemic. The PKP8 also forces Janez Janša to pay for low wages in the economy. Of course, there are up to 100,000 euros in fines for a variety of legal persons on the basis of an act that is not yet in existence and will be signed under it by Milan Krek and Janez Janša as Minister of Health. As if these two people have any credibility in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, there are no things in the PKP8 that should necessarily be in there. Student workers – 20 thousand of them who depend on student work for life – are again overlooked, irrespective of all the amendments we have made in the opposition. Here are the workers who operate in the context of espies. Some of them, just some of them, are receiving basic income and, once again, some of them are able to survive from this basic income again, while others, unfortunately, the amount of this basic income does not allow survival. And ordinary workers who go to work even when they are sick, because they have replaced their sick ones lower than their wages and are afraid of slipping into poverty. The government doesn't want to help with this either. Instead of dealing with social and health problems, only during the discussion of the CAP8 did the following: the students decided to command and order what they could study and what they should not do. This morning, however, I was greeted by the news that government representatives, ministers, even the television profession cannot act alone. “Ein Reich, ein Volk, ein Führer.”
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u47	The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, I will vote in favour of not adopting this decision prohibiting the referendum to allow citizens and citizens in Slovenia to finally give their opinion on the CAP. After all, eight anti-Korona packages have already been adopted; the situation in the country is so medical, economic, social and, above all, politics and political culture is only getting worse. People must be given the opportunity to say no at the referendum! They tell Ivan Janez Janša and this existing coalition and this government policy that practically kills people in our midst. He kills them with his life and kills them mentally. It kills democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who does not believe this should look at the number of deaths, where we are practically the first in the world. Let's see how many older people have died in nursing homes. Let him see how this government, this coalition, does not take sides with public health. Let him look at this madness and explain to the children in Zasavje that through rapid tests, which are obviously dysfunctional and were forced by certain lobbying in this government, the Zasavska region is once black, second time red, then black and now even orange. Explain that to the elementary school! Therefore, the referendum must be allowed to vote to say what people think about the Slovenian virus, about the paranoid schizophrenia that is practically killing this country. Let's get this over with! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u50	I will vote against this because this vote is against and, at the same time, vote for, say, the students who were before parliament today, which no one can hear, and at least the minister. It is a vote for academics and future students – 11 thousand e-mails we received at the time of the adoption of this PKP law, which will obviously live to the full because of your decisions. It's a vote for forgotten students, a vote for employees who have to go to work sick so they can survive. This is a voice for all those who quietly protest by walking because otherwise they cannot. This is a voice for a whole range of people whom this government and this institution constantly overlooks and does not want to hear, because after eight attempts, if no proposal is accepted, then you do not want to hear it; not that you cannot. And most importantly, a vote against it is a vote for the Slovenian Constitution and a vote for the Slovenian Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I'd be happy to support this marriage. Why? Because I do a lot of good work with support to the two groups. A group of those to whom assistance is intended and the law will apply tomorrow, and a group of those here in Parliament who are sceptics to this law, and outside Parliament who will be able to immediately use the Institute of Constitutional Review, Articles or Wholesales. So quickly to work; we by implementing the law and sceptics by carrying out the democratic will of all the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter, then Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a sad day, sad news, but I'll allow you to tell me a savvy, knapsack joke. Two friends are talking, and one just died of a mother-in-law. The first asked him, "What happened?" And he said, "I was cooking lunch, I needed potatoes, and I sent her to the basement for potatoes." And then what happened? “She went to the basement and broke down and died.” And a friend asks him, "Yeah, what did you do?" And he said, "Macaroni." Ten months of watching macaroni cooking; ten months of government cooking macaroni while we have 3 000 500 dead, while sometimes it forgets about, this time, nurses, espaes, traditionally students, now even those who haven't yet, it forgets the infected employees and the entire list of all people, regardless of the government's piarian wings, that they've taken care of everything here traditionally remains. People are not stupid and have recognized this government's inability to manage the epidemic and its economic and social effects. Children, primary school children – they understand! Those who protest in Trbovje, Nova Gorica and wherever they are already gathering. Likewise, if I have been caught by a strain and I have fallen to the level of understanding of primary schoolchildren, I understand that the only solution here is the voice of the people, and I understand your scepticism in your selfish motives for managing the country, the respected government and its constellation in the National Assembly, that you do not want it. So my vote goes against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! “Explanation of the voice means that the Member of Parliament deals with her vote”, Milan Brglez, former President of the National Assembly, Doctor of Science. I will vote in favour of the motion for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on additional measures to mitigate the consequences of covid-19, as well as my colleague and colleague, because the vote is "for" the Slovenian Constitution. Or, more precisely, for the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be declared on the laws of urgency in order to ensure the defence of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Now it is only a question of whether the deadly SARS-COV-2 virus, or epidemic disease covid-19, is a natural disaster or a political issue. There's a dilemma. The vote for the decision is also a vote in favour of respect for the laws, specifically the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which we adopted, amended last year. Measures, thank God, they're taking. More companies have recently been established than have been shut down. After seven days of infection, we're in the red zone, the number of hospitalized is orange. Both criteria must be met in order to be released into the orange at national level. However, the condition for temporary abandonment of the regional principle is met as the regions have been converging in the last month. It's encouraging! Vote "for". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-04-SDZ8-Izredna-59.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs will begin in half an hour.
