ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 91st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: only Bevk until 2 p.m., Marko Koprivc, Igor Zorčič and Franc Jurša. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 91st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 21 December 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda of the sitting, so I propose that we set the agenda for today's meeting, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 29. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the agenda of the 91st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON ADDITIONAL MEASURES FOR PREVENTION, OLIMINATION, MANAGEMENT, REFERENCE AND ELIMINATION OF THE AFFECTS OF COVID-19, IN THE framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We are still facing the consequences and impact of Covid-19's communicable disease, both in the areas of health, economy and social protection. The government is aware of this, so the government has prepared additional measures. I would like to divide these measures into two parts, firstly health protection measures and secondly, measures in the field of economic assistance for businesses and individuals, particularly those most at risk. In the area of health protection, certain measures are being extended, such as the possibility of redistribution of healthcare personnel, financing of telemedicine, and the use of absence from work is simplified. The new measure envisaged by the proposal for a law is the determination of compensation for damage to those beneficiaries who have been vaccinated and who have suffered harm to their health. Vaccination has been proven to be the safest and effective preventive measure in the fight against infectious diseases that protects both the individual and the society as a whole. However, serious side effects may occur in very rare cases in vaccines, but the benefits of vaccination greatly outweigh the risks due to the serious consequences of the disease. The introduction of liability and thus a system of compensation without guilt is crucial in maintaining confidence in the safety and quality of vaccines, and ensuring the effective and comprehensive implementation of the national Covid-19 vaccination programme. Reimbursement shall also be imposed on those beneficiaries who, due to the use or application of Covid-19, who has a temporary marketing authorisation, suffered health damage. The use of leave is also being prolonged, mainly because this has been made difficult for many in the context of a pandemic or epidemic. In addition, the bill allows for the realization of a collective contract in health care with the possibility of doctors and dentists reaching a maximum of 63th salary grade for the period until the end of 2021. The law also introduces measures aimed at direct assistance to the economy, businesses and individuals. This introduces an additional risk exposure allowance and a special burden for voluntary and non-professional members of the force for protection, rescue, as well as for students and students who assist in the care of patients in health and welfare institutions. A solidarity allowance is being introduced for pensioners who receive a pension of EUR 732 or less, at 3 levels. A solidarity allowance is being introduced for particularly vulnerable groups amounting to 150 euros and an allowance for farmers over 65 years of age who are not recipients of pensions. The proposal also provides additional funding for family support programmes. The period of payment of the solidarity allowance for newborns shall be extended and an allowance shall be introduced for those firefighters who are employed in voluntary firefighting companies or associations and have not yet received this supplement. The economy is subject to a new liquidity loan measure through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, mainly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The economy shall also be subject to the legal basis for drawing additional funds from the reserve introduced in the adaptation to Brexit. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is envisaged that the duration of the financial initiatives programme will be extended through State aid schemes. It is envisaged that EU funds will be made available to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 5.2 million and are intended for the economy. The possibility of prepayments to public agencies is introduced and calls for proposals and introductions are simplified [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] is digitised in this field. In view of all the above, I believe that the bill contains the necessary measures both to protect the health of individuals and to improve the social situation of the most vulnerable groups and to support economic recovery. I therefore propose that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At its 68th urgent meeting, on 23 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the Covid-19 consequences. Within the time limit, the amendments tabled the coalition's parliamentary groups and the opposition's parliamentary groups with a number of articles of the bill, as reflected in the written report. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance presented the main solutions and objectives of the bill, pointing out that it was an additional measure, since the epidemic had an impact on all spheres of social life. In the area of health protection, certain measures are being extended. These are measures concerning the allocation of personnel in health establishments, the financing of telemedicine, the use of absence from work without a certificate of justified retention. The proposal also provides for an extension of the period of use of the unused annual leave for 2020 and 2021. Other measures are aimed at direct assistance to businesses and individuals, such as exposure, danger and special burdens for voluntary and non-professional members of the security and rescue force, as well as for students and students who help care for patients in health or welfare institutions. A solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups and an allowance for farmers is also provided. The extension of the validity of the redemption of tourist vouchers shall be ensured. There is also a measure to partially recover the lost income for self-employed, farmers and shareholders. In addition, certain simplifications have been introduced in the field of financial incentives processing procedures in public calls and calls in a way that will be as digitised as possible. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the service had drawn up a written opinion and explained that the opinion had made introductory comments and comments to each article. In the debate itself, the representative of the service made comments on individual amendments. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance presented the Commission's written opinion and drew attention to the opinion of the interested Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Persons with Disabilities, which did not support the proposal. On the contrary, the National Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance's parental commission supports the bill's proposal. In the debate, some Members of the various parliamentary groups drew attention to the issue of the admissibility of some of the amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups. They had procedural proposals in this regard and, in view of their disagreement with the non-acceptance of procedural proposals, they announced obstruction. The meeting was obstructed by the members of the Lévica, SAB, SD and LMŠ groups at this point. With regard to the bill itself, the member of the committee said what favourable solutions the proposed law brings and mentioned special allowances for pensioners, particularly vulnerable groups and the extension of tourist vouchers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted 59 amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. It also adopted amendments from the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and not related to the title of Chapter 5 and to Articles 63 to 67. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, Article 133, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly [[sign for the end of the debate]] the text of the completed proposal for a law incorporating the amendments adopted. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. For the tenth time since the outbreak of the viral epidemic and since the onset of the current government, we have been discussing the legal package, the cause of which is the covida-19 epidemic. In almost two years we have become accustomed to this way of working this government – packaged, by decrees, by emergency procedure, at the last moment, without justification and with one and only justification of COVID-19. Ten times, the government has brought a package that is urgently needed for the epidemic. There were also opportunities for additions and improvements in each of the subsets. Nine times, the chairmen of the four different committees that have addressed these proposals have taken the same position: because it is an intervention law due to an extraordinary event, its content should be limited to the areas proposed by the Government when the proposal is made. Nine times so far, the committees and the National Assembly have not been able to vote on a whole range of proposals by both the opposition or the coalition to improve government packages, as the contents of intervention laws should not be disseminated. Many of the forgotten groups, economic sectors and living areas affected by the epidemic had to wait for the end of the legal proceedings before they could address their problems. For each individual amendment to supplement the content of the government proposal, it was necessary to demonstrate in a comprehensive and demanding manner that there was no additional legal content. It usually ended the same way, the proposals were marked as commercially inadmissible and were not put to the vote even though their content made sense. In the 10th attempt, that changed, too. Members of the coalition tabled a number of amendments just a few hours before the decision was taken, which add a set of new solutions to the already contested law, including an intervention in the public sector's payment system to remove payment restrictions for doctors and dentists. This time, the Chairman of the Committee of the Amendments did not consider all the amendments tabled to be inadmissible but submitted to the vote. In spite of the opposition's proposals and protests, the committee's rulings added to the legislative proposal, which therefore comes before the National Assembly in a substantially different form than it was tabled. By the decision of the chairman of the committee to act for the 10th time differently than we were nine times earlier, Parliament was informed that it had resubmitted itself to the Government and its dictatorship. With ever-increasing new marriage packages affecting different areas and rules already regulated by other laws, mainly confusion is created. Both citizens and the Government can no longer find themselves in an untransparent set of rules, so it is ironic that at the meeting, at the same meeting, we are also dealing with the Debarcation Act, and we are already filling people with ten packages of new exceptions, which is why the Government and its subjects are also a mere cover. They adopt laws because of their addresses and because of their apparent legality, so it does not matter if the coalition Members have withdrawn from the marriage text the disputed articles by which they wanted to give themselves the authority to rule with the decrees, for they certainly intend to do so with or without the legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen, in less than two years now, the rulings have stretched the limits of the once unacceptable so much that it is not possible to rely on anything else. Until last Thursday, it was possible to rely at least on the fact that this would be complied with at home. Now we see that these victims are also the willful rulers who can do anything if they just refer to the epidemic and have not declared it. With such a way of working, the ruling hope that enough people will simply raise their hands and turn to the side so that all critical voices will smother power and remain in the hands of a minority who is also in a position to do so. Social Democrats will not turn away with the democratic opposition this time, we are putting forward a series of supplements to remove from the law at least the most harmful content that the ruling have hidden under gifts this time. We will insist that our proposals are treated with the same vats as those of the ruling. A law that violates all democratic rules by adopting it, and we cannot give support in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. The government of Janez Janša has completely and completely compromised the management of the Covid-19 epidemic. It began with the insidious purchases of fans and masks, where commission leaders, rather than the shared need, continued the development of crisis hotspots in the homes of older citizens and committed themselves to a catastrophic picture of the organisation of vaccination, which is among the worst among European countries. The process has been accompanied by government decisions limiting the movement of citizens and citizens to allow these activities once again for the second time by other third activities which have closed the fourth restrictive decrees and often changed overnight. In short, there was a complete confusion in the country. Nowhere else does this confusion reflect better than the fact that we are now taking the tenth antikoronic path. The 10th package, while the basis for managing and regulating the epidemic should have been resolved at its inception and in force throughout its entire duration. Thus, every few months we have a victory on the table of the National Assembly for the winners in which the candy is multiplied for the privileged and the bullying of these or those groups of citizens or citizens. In a specific proposal, we can thus see the third form of payment of the solidarity allowance to pensioners, but it is again made unfair in the third. Pensioners with pensions of up to €510 will receive 300 of the solidarity allowance, those with only one euro of pension more, and 511 euros, for example, will receive as much as €70 of the supplement, even though at the beginning of the payment of solidarity allowances in Levica and in the democratic opposition to the Government we have submitted a formula whereby these allowances can be calculated in a linear and socially fair manner. It is similar with other forms of solidarity allowances. On purpose and consciously, PKP 10 has left disabled workers, those who, despite their damage and limitations, are still committed to contributing to society to the best of their ability. And the other vulnerable groups from the unemployed to the students, they also do not enjoy government aid and government support. Instead, in PKO 10 he found his way directly rejected a proposal to remove the salary restrictions for the highest wage classes after which payment for work is received by doctors in that country. We don't even talk about much of the medical work, we only talk about the best-paid doctors, because you know, every year we can watch the 50 best-paid public servants, and the last thing that happened was 46 doctors. Among them, the recorder received 15,000 euros a month. In the case of such a medical mandarin, the Government is now rewarding with an additional thousand euros. We say in Levica that the priorities must be reversed and the wages must be fixed first for those who cannot date them now, so we have already prepared an amendment for the committee, together with the democratic opposition, which will not fix the medical and insurance lobby, which guides and tailors our health policy in the form of doctors of bilinguals and the management of various hospitals, but would actually fix wages where they need to be fixed, namely with doctors of beginners, young doctors, those up to EUR 2,000 gross wages and 3,000 gross salaries, etc. Torekša needs to point out that the key problem with us is, not the salaries of this or one professional group, but the low pay for the work done in general during the working class, to discuss the medical proletariat in the homes of older citizens or in the industry. The only measure to address this wage discrimination between the best-paid and the worst-paid has indeed been to equalize the basic salary with the minimum wage, as the unions say, enkra is minimal. But such a measure, measures for social justice in PKP 10, will not be found or found on the government's agenda. For this purpose, it will be necessary to wait for April 24th and only after that date to revalue the priorities by which public money in our society works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are concluding another year in which the COVID-19 epidemic sealed us. Following words in the dense December holiday days would certainly put the words we want each other to the top of the frequency of appearance. Tired, also impatient and exhausted because of the epidemic, we now yearn more than ever for connection. Humans, however, are social and social beings, so social isolation is difficult to accept. But our view must be different this time, not about our decision on our health, but also about the health of the people around us, not only of our loved ones, but of all the communities we belong to. Our personal decisions also have an impact on the duration of the social stalemate. As a result, our decisions affect the work of health workers and their overload, and ultimately the number of beds available and related interventions that save lives, human life. We live in a society that values human life as the highest value. This means that protection of lives is more important to us than, for example, the right to freedom of movement or the right to gather and unite. In this spirit, at the time of the pandemic, we subjected all aspects of public life to the protection of the health of our community. At this point, at the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to point out the genius of its authors, who in this highest act of general principles and rules also wrote down the contents of the pandemic. I stress only Article 17 of the Constitution, which stipulates that human life is untouchable and Article 42 of the Constitution, which gives us the right and freedom to gather and unite. However, this right is limited if this requires State security or public security and protection against the spread of communicable diseases, the Constitution states. When new diseases occur, the behavior of pathogens, the disease itself and its consequences are often a puzzle. That's the case with Covid-19. During this time, the word “mykron” is also used in the frequency of word occurrence. In other words, 15 letters of the Greek alphabet, which means “small” in Slovenian, “small”. It is the strain of the SarsCOV2 virus, which can settle not only on unvaccinated and uninhabited, but also offer the possibility of settlement for vaccinated and patients. As a result, the virus has grown rapidly into a human territory that can be settled and has become a veritable tornado. The outbreaks of infectious diseases are therefore unpredictable. Therefore, it is not possible to foresee legally all possible situations that may arise. Such demands are unrealistic, even in our system, which is not famous for its speed. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly is considering the 10th anti-Korona aid package for people and the economy. The updated proposal for a law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and elimination of the consequences of Covid-19, among other things, brings assistance to the most vulnerable groups of our society. The proposal also provides a supplement to the risk exposure and specific burdens for voluntary and non-professional members of the security and rescue forces. We have not forgotten the permanent unemployed who receive a 150-euro solidarity allowance. Assistance to families for newborns amounting to EUR 500 is extended until 30 June 2023. We didn't forget about the disabled, we didn't forget about the retired. In fact, the key message of this law is the solutions that target about 300,000 people who are most vulnerable to us. And that is why the Group of Members will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us today is the 10th in a row to address the Coronavirus epidemic and, above all, its consequences. The opposition from the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica Group obstructed the treatment of the PKP10 on the Finance Committee, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has given the coalition the opportunity to vote on what it wants. Again, it has proved to be the current authority over the acquis and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They're also, of course, bubbling up at the constitution. Let me point out that 75 percent of the amendments were by 10. The ZUJF, referred to as the PKP10, should therefore not be subject to consideration in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, this has happened, so we did not want to participate in the SAB Group in such poor parliamentary practices and working methods. We have no choice but to obstruct the meeting and oppose the illegal conduct of the meeting. The ruling coalition demolishes the rule of law and does not respect the laws, which once again reflected very clearly on December 23rd. At the same time, we add that not all measures covered by the 10th anti-korona package are bad. At the same time, in the SAB, we are particularly exposed to the solidarity allowance for the most vulnerable pensioners. Unfortunately, the coalition, with its manoeuvres in an undemocratic way, undermines everything that is really good. As usual, this proposal is also for large financial contributions – about 180 million. We certainly welcome the fact that the government has addressed a difficult health and economic situation and has extended some measures that have proved effective. Among other things, the extension of the validity of tourist vouchers. In the SAB Group, we agree with the proposaler's comments that the extension of this measure in the light of the consequences of the epidemic, both from the point of view of the limited possibility of using the vouchers and from the point of view of further assistance to the economy, is essential, since many individuals have not yet made use of the vouchers. Of course, in the marriage text, we again found some of the underlings that we tried to remove from the marriage material by the opposition parties with the amendments — more than not a failure. In the SAB Group, we have tabled an amendment to the bill to extend the use of vouchers for electricity, fuel, oil and natural gas services, which are fully implemented and used in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in order to maintain the social situation of citizens and citizens in order to raise the prices of all those energy users. We have proposed that beneficiaries who have not yet made use of their vouchers may cash these in the service providers mentioned above. A painful fact facing our country is that 254,000 people and residents live below the poverty line, of which two thirds of them are pensioners and pensioners. We have also proposed in the SAB that all pensioners are entitled to a single solidarity allowance, and not only those who have pensions below EUR 714. In the SAB, we have thus proposed that all pensioners receive a solidarity allowance according to the amount of the pension they receive. The coalition adopted only an amendment at the meeting of the parent working body, raising the border to EUR 732. The epidemic has also undoubtedly exposed the human resources sub-nutrient of the Slovenian health system, as it has been on the verge of capacity for a long time. Employees are exhausted, some have even left the profession for this reason. With the amendment of the SAB, we have proposed that the Ministry responsible for health may prioritise the allocation of personnel according to the stated needs to assist in the care of patients with COVID-19 also for concessionaires and private health service providers. The fact is that the situation in hospitals is extremely difficult and, as a result, health workers are already on the verge of capacity. To avoid collapse of the health system are helpful [[sign for the end of the debate]] Italian military health workers also came to Slovenian hospitals, including doctors and nurses. In the SAB Group, we believe it would be useful to use all domestic staff capacities, both from the public health service network and private health service providers, in order to prevent the collapse of the health system. Unfortunately, our amendment to the Committee on Finance was not adopted. Our proposals and most of the proposals of other opposition groups that we have signed are [[sign for the end of the debate]] were rejected. (continuation What we can stress and will be stressed over and over again, the government has managed everything, on all fronts restricting measures, giving no real results, and public health is cracking through the stitches, and the number of hours is still too high. [[Incomprehensible]] These are the facts that tell us everything. Janša's government has taken up matters for the Covid-19 smoke screen that are not necessary or necessary to solve the epidemic and the health crisis. Moreover, they may cause more damage than the epidemic itself. Government priorities are obvious, as we can see, elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u13	Your Honor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u14	This is not how we will support the bill in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u16	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. Before us is the law, also called PKP 10, whose main objective is to further soften and remedy the consequences of the pandemic on the health, work, economy and social security of our society. This 10th anti-Korona aid package is also primarily aimed at solidarity. Clearly, the burden associated with the pandemic was unevenly spread across the various segments of our society. This burden has been reflected in some activities in a complete cessation of operations, sometimes in a severely reduced development potential, and sometimes the stakeholders have not felt any greater consequences. Therefore, this anti-Korona package is also based on the principle of mitigating the uneven distribution of burdens on those social groups and economic sectors that have suffered the worst consequences and have been subjected to the worst pressures. As part of this package, certain aids and financial supplements such as the solidarity allowance for particularly vulnerable groups are therefore introduced, including all groups of disabled persons, the allowance for members of the protection, rescue and assistance force and the solidarity allowance for pensioners. The package provides assistance in the purchase of rapid antigen tests and self-test kits. The legal basis for the extension of tourist vouchers is also laid down. At the same time, the law also provides for partial recovery of the lost income for the duration of the quarantine at home or the inability to perform work due to the obligation to protect the child. However, following the consideration of the draft law at the recent session of the Finance Committee, this legislative proposal no longer contains provisions which would prejudice or correct the Law on Infectious Diseases, which, otherwise, requires some radical amendments and additions following the decision of the Constitutional Court. Further opposition to the law is therefore incomprehensible and is contrary to the solidarity principle of assistance needed by social groups. We estimate that it is only a matter of self-confrontation, i.e. a political struggle with all means, even on the shoulders of the most vulnerable. Soon we will enter the third year of facing the consequences of the pandemic. Despite the fact that we are again facing a higher number of actively infected people today, we have learned to live in a way that is quite effective in preventing the spread of infections. Today, we know quite well when to expect critical periods and who are the ones who are then under the worst pressure. We also know how to take effective and rapid economic measures and thereby mitigate the decline in economic activity during critical periods. We believe that we must also avoid any change in the dynamics of providing support to people and the economy this time. We believe that obstructing the implementation of the planned measures caused by today's non-admission of the law could lead to the collapse of some fundamental relations in our society. Moreover, opposition to the proposed solutions would, in our view, be contrary to the principles of fairness and solidarity. The forecasts concerning economic growth in the coming periods are relatively good. Today, we have one of the lowest unemployment rates and one of the highest rates of economic growth in the European Union due to extremely well-to-do state intervention. However, we are aware that our extremely effective response to the consequences of the pandemic has taken on certain state expenditure and, when we consider all the arguments, we conclude that our fiscal capacity must continue to focus primarily on the elimination of the consequences of the pandemic and the recovery of the economy, as long as pandemic circumstances impede the smooth conduct of economic activities or all social activities. That's why we're [[sign for the end of the debate]] in our parliamentary group, the proposal of this so-called 10th anti-Korona marriage package was supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The situation in which we are and are marked by a viral pandemic is, in fact, very special only for its duration. From the AIDS pandemic via bird flu, Ebola, SARS-1, we know that the world market produces in combination with poor health systems on huge surfaces and with a trend of non-compliance with emergency vaccination needs, inevitably severe and deadly pandemics. The complexity of the pandemic shows that there is always an area of expression between natural and social definitions. This crisis, which is not only a health crisis and a crisis of political institutions, but also a deep economic crisis, reveals the weaknesses of our way of life. Among other things, it was one of the virtues of democracy that it was a species of mere reforming political arrangements. This does not mean that we do not make mistakes in democracy, but when compared to totalitarian regimes, democracy is better at correcting mistakes. The nature of the political regime does not determine who will respond better to the crisis. The pandemic is a dramatic crisis and states are beginning to become like each other. The main issues become efficiency, a level of trust in society, experience in past crises and the efficiency of the state apparatus. Individual democracies can use policies that are hard to imagine in order to deal effectively with the crisis. This flexibility, however, is a sign of the power of democratic order, not a sign of its weakness. In accordance with the deepening and spreading of the dimensions of the crisis, we have adopted nine anti-Korona laws in Slovenia so far. We also have a completely contradictory opinion about their meaning, meaning and effect, but it should be stressed that this is our reality. In a fiscal sense, we do what is possible, not what is produced daily in overheated heads of tailors. The 10th Anti-Korona Act is a combination of health protection measures and measures designed to help individuals and businesses. It is also a combination of extending the measures already in force and introducing some new ones. The extension of the duration of the measures relates to the allocation of staff in health establishments for the financing of telemedicine treatment, the use of absence from work for up to 3 days without a certificate of eligibility of restraint and the possibility of using unused annual leave for 2020 and 2021. In this area, the extension of the validity of the redemption of tourist vouchers is particularly exposed. Among the new measures, we stress in particular the determination of compensation for damage to those beneficiaries who have been vaccinated and who have suffered harm to their health. Direct assistance to businesses and individuals shall be reflected in the exposure, hazard and specific burden allowances for voluntary and non-professional members of the security and resolution forces. In addition to students and students who assist in the care of patients in health or welfare institutions, assistance in the purchase of quick self-testing tests and in the partial recovery of lost income for self-employed members who are managers and farmers. Members of the Desus Group show solidarity for pensioners in three different amounts – 300, 230 and 130 euros. The overall financial implications of the proposed law are estimated at €280 million, with an additional €80 million being almost or less than one third of all expenditure, which is what is truly important. No virus can remove the human need to see some sense in natural and social events. All we can do in the whole story is confront our knowledge, but not with the knowledge we've sucked from Facebook to speed, but only with the knowledge that develops in laboratories and experimental centers, it is transmitted through books and serious education. When this knowledge is enriched by our compassion for every human being, it is possible to overcome both viral and economic apocalypses. This simple and clear truth will be the only good that will come out of the present evil. Members of the Desus Group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u20	A nice welcome to all present, especially to you, Vice-President of the National Assembly, to the government's representatives with the minister in charge. I am sure that, when the country first closed last year, no one thought that we would have to adopt as many as 10 so-called PKPs are called the 10th Anti-Korona Act. Maybe we're not aware of what a serious situation we're in. It is illustrative to expect that we will finally remove the last measure in order to start living normally there is still very far away. In every health crisis, we have also experienced economic crises, and we have not yet felt these, apart from rising prices. In this little over a year and a half, we got a bill for all the mistakes that we or we've locked properly in the closets in the past years, pretending they're not there and saying that it's not that bad. It didn't sober us that sending text messages to 1919 under different passwords became a constant. We have not heard the criticism of the various organisations that have warned us that we do not have enough staff, that many people live below the threshold of poverty, of course, in this temple of democracy we like to speak out loud and propose some increases of some €10. The old saying is that with a full ass it's easy to be smart, it's sad that some of you are doing something here. It is a shame that we, as citizens' representatives, are doing little to help people. I am not saying that the PKP-10 is perfect, that we will remove all injustices far from it, and I will definitely help to make the slap that we will get after the end of this glamorous period of grace. The tourist vouchers are certainly government candy and I seriously doubt that another 30 per cent of last year will be spent on accommodations. But I believe they're going to help someone else this year. I don't even know how it could have come to be forgotten about the espaes, farmers and associates who were sent to quarantine. I don't even want to think about how many of these had to be breached by a quarantine decision because someone had to pay the bills and someone had to get the food. It is commendable that members of civil protection and others will be rewarded for their dedicated work at this time. It's been a long time since they've actually been in the first battle lines, but I guess that's their job. They've become too self-evident for us. We are so confident that more than 200,000 pensioners will receive a pension of less than 600 euros, and it is good that, as a result, the CAP will be re-emerged in solidarity. Inevitably, I could describe why it is necessary to undermine this CAP as well. We will certainly support the amendments in the law, but we have concerns about the amendment to raise pay grade for doctors and dentists, although there has been talk about young doctors and dentists in the game, but since I have received over 10,000 electronic messages at this time not to support the PKP-10, it has obviously only been possible for people to re-emphasize that they do not know what right. The upcoming elections should not lead before legislative decisions appear to be made, but this will become a practice in the coming months. Clearly, the welfare of citizens is not important because it is a popular advertisement that makes voices easier to create with lies. The law, unfortunately, is the only problem with this law for opponents of the law is that there is only one, not a real proponent. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u22	In the past two years, we have decided on ten anti-Korona legislative packages that have mitigated the consequences of the Covid epidemic or are supposed to. The modus operandi of their adoption is practically identical from the first legislative package forward. A number of measures were necessary and necessary, many of them representing and still representing circuits from democratic decision-making. We'd be naive if we expected something else this time. And in some ways it is ironic that this is happening at a time when we celebrate the unity and autonomy of our country and the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution as if such a way of ruling were written to someone on the skin. Who knows, it's a rhetorical question. It is not clear to the Government of Janez Janša after two years of difficult epidemiological warfare that laws are needed in addition to decrees. This is the one and only relevant message that has been given by the Constitutional Court throughout this period by its decisions. And what did the authorities do? First of all, she voted against her own Infectious Diseases Act because of the rioting of the people. Secondly, in PKP 10 it introduced provisions under which the management of the decrees would be absolutely permitted. Later, the coalition MPs saw that such a solution could rekindle the mass rebellion of the people, and the amendments of the opposition to delete the disputed articles were adopted at the meeting of the Finance Committee. All these steps by the rulings show that it is only possible to prevent the adoption of complementary laws on communicable diseases that regulate the contents, procedures and conditions of measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases while at the same time protecting against excessive interference with rights and fundamental freedoms. We are talking, of course, about the law drawn up by civil society, the legal network for the protection of democracy, which we have put into the parliamentary procedure by unrelated Members. Doctor's salary, second neurological point of this law. Doctors insist on getting out of the single pay system and this time they seem to be doing well. Once again, there is no courage on the part of the rulings to open up social dialogue with doctors, dentists, nurses, caregivers and everyone else collectively, as is done in normal democratic countries where social dialogue applies. It seems that the government of Janez Janša is a unique opportunity for medical purposes, of course by the logic of the smallest effort and by the burden and problem of the next government, so is the easiest. It began by dividing Covid supplements all on average and generously, ending with the 10th antikoronic package. The question that remains unanswered is the tsunami of the demands of other professional groups and their bargaining power before the expiry of this government's term. In all ten anti-Korona packages, the rulers have overcome much of the courage to shake down the rule of law and violate the basic democratic postulates. However, they did not have the courage to provide a healthy living environment for citizens and citizens with sufficient bridging even if mandatory. In fact, this is the far-reaching negative tax of this government, which will cost us disproportionately much, and the most lasting loss of confidence in the populism over its representatives. For these reasons, we will vote against the CAP10.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on additional measures to prevent proliferation, easing, control, recovery and remedying the consequences of COVID-19, i.e. PKP10. The main objective is to mitigate and address the consequences and impact of infectious diseases of covid in the field of health, economy and social security. There's a 10th package ahead of us. At the proposal of the Government of Janez Janša, the National Assembly has already adopted nine anti-Korona packages. The results today are those who say that these nine packages were necessary and justified and also successful. Slovenia is now registering among the countries of the European Union one of the largest economic growth. Slovenia records one of the smallest unemployment among the countries of the European Union. In Slovenia we currently have record unemployment in the history of Slovenia. Slovenia's credit ratings remain the same or are increasing. We can therefore find that our credit rating agencies and foreign partners trust and assess that Slovenia is a stable and credible country. Red thread also 10 t.i. The anti-Korona package is a disease infestation of COVID-19 and assistance to the economy and to the most vulnerable groups. In the PKP10 package, the following issues would be highlighted. A solidarity allowance for pensioners who receive a pension of up to €510 will be granted an allowance of €300. Pensioners who receive a pension of between €510 and €612 will receive an allowance of €230. Pensioners who receive a pension of between €612 and €714 will receive an allowance of €130. The solidarity allowance will also be paid for particularly vulnerable groups of €150. A single solidarity allowance to improve the situation will also be given to persons over 65 years of age who have not received an allowance as pensioners, as well as to carriers or farm members. PKP10 also regulates the legal basis for extending the validity of tourist vouchers issued in 2020. The type of action shall be taken in relation to education and health. The measure is extended for 3 days without a medical certificate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we assess that the PKP10 package is urgently needed. That's why we're going to support him. We would like to point out, however, that the Members and Members of the Finance Committee have supported the four opposition amendments, all of which relate to the area of the Infectious Diseases Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the adoption of the CAP10 will be the basis for the control of COVID-19 and that we will maintain a functioning economy, preserve jobs and protect the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u26	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. We already have the tenth anti-Korona package, which is supposed to contain measures to prevent the spread of the new virus and to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. Interestingly, the competent authorities have been talking in the summers about us being in the fourth wave of the crown virus epidemic, and the law containing the necessary measures related to the epidemic is only being dealt with today. That's the last week of December. If we have witnessed many cases of anti-Korona law before, the meeting of the Finance Committee was over a quarter of a drop over the edge. That the chairman of the committee dares to commit such an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure and to whistle at all the rules is really unacceptable. The coalition tabled 43 pages of amendments just a few hours before the meeting, of which 75% of them, according to the chairman of the committee, were economically inadmissible. This means that we should not decide on them, but the President has allowed the vote on them to take place at his discretion. And because the amendments came from the coalition. We were unable to participate in the LMŠ in such a maneuver. Moreover, the amendments proposed some major changes to the current regime, which have nothing to look for in the intervention law. Most of all, it will be in your eyes to raise the wages of the best paid doctors and dentists. Such a change affecting the public sector wage system cannot be adopted in any way in the intervention law, and even less so in some amendments. The same applies to provisions that actually lower the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for healthcare professionals. Such changes should be addressed in dialogue with the social partners and other key stakeholders. Even though in the LMŠ and the opposition we were able to prevent the intention of the government of Janez Janša following the re-election of the rulings, the law remains weak and in many respects also controversial. In addition to the changes already mentioned by the amendments to the PKP10, the possibility remains that the employer may order the worker to work after working time without restrictions on rest. We're against this in the LMŠ. The trade unions also expressed strong disagreement with the proposal. The possibility of setting longer working hours means the possibility of shortening the use of your free time and thus violating your privacy. This may, however, be an intervention in the protected rights of workers, which means an intervention in human rights. This was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. Such provisions were found in the law, as the 10th CAP was also adopted without social dialogue. Despite the fact that time has passed and despite the fact that the law contains measures that should be dealt with in the Economic and Social Council. Social partners have a lot of experience and practical knowledge to help them prepare intervention laws with quality, expertise and experience. However, the government clearly expresses its intention not to seek social dialogue or to reinvigorate the Economic and Social Council. The law also contains certain articles which are not directly related to the epidemic or are not of an intervention nature at all. On the other hand, PKP10 does not provide assistance to the most affected sectors, such as the meeting industry. And the obvious evidence that we are witnessing in every single PKP is once again creating additional confusion and impossibility in the Slovenian legal order. PKP10 intervenes in a number of PKPs, as well as in certain sectoral and systemic legislation, while in parallel it deals with the same issues as some other laws already do, which further reduces transparency and clarity of regulation. Legal persons find their legal position increasingly difficult to understand. We strongly oppose such a bill in the LMŠ. Although we have tabled a number of additions to the proposal, with which we want to introduce certain necessary measures into the law, or by deleting individual articles, at least the most urgent ones. However, in the LMŠ we will still oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out under Article 134(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 1 of the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members. To Article 1, it is substantively linked to the amendments of the same motion for a new 8a Chapter, for a new 20a Article and for a new 20b Article. The amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1 shall be substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new Chapters 17 and 40a. The amendment of the non-aligned members' groups and the LMŠ to the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal for a new Chapter 8 – temporary measures in the field of education. We will therefore discuss all the amendments to this chapter and to this Article together. I am therefore putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1, as amended, and the new paragraphs 17 and new 40th, the 4 amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and the unrelated Members to Article 1 for the new 8a Chapter, the new 20a Article and the new 20b Article, the amendments of the non-connected groups and the LMŠ to the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1 and the amendments of the non-connected groups and the LMŠ to the new Chapter 8 – temporary measures in the field of education. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign in. I'm on my way. We have five Members and Members of Parliament registered. First, the government representative, Minister Andrej Shircelj, will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. My debate will now be brief, particularly in response to some of the views of the groups. And the first thing I want to stress is that this 10th anti-Korona law is not proposed because anyone in particular would like it in the government, but to mitigate the consequences of the Covid crisis that is actually taking place in the world, in Europe and in this country for almost two years. With this focus on the main objective and the main objective, the main objective is, of course, to mitigate the consequences and, of course, the main purpose is to ensure that the economy and the population suffer as little social consequences as possible, especially for the population and the economic and financial economy. So from this point of view, I would like to point out that the basis of all 10 laws is to actually keep jobs and to give people a decent life in these situations, especially those most affected. Of course, special thanks goes to health workers and all those who care for patients and to those who actually save lives. We have been here several times before the dilemma and we are still facing a dilemma also in relation to the priority of legal priorities in Covid-19. Firstly, the right to health and the right to life, which also stems from the right to health, certainly has a priority here, even in my personal opinion, in terms of human rights. From this point of view, I would like to say that the fundamental purpose of all ten laws is, above all, this, once again, to ensure the life of as many people as possible, regardless of Covid and, of course, to ensure health. Of course, resources are limited here and, of course, certain provisions are also proposed, both in the field of health care and in the field of social or social rights. On the one hand, on the other hand, we are aware that we need to ensure economic activity, that we need to ensure that the economy operates under the most normal conditions and that, of course, on this basis, the economy also provides incomes that are used primarily for health care. Here I would like to say that, certainly, if we are talking about how we want to reduce social problems through this law, then of course we must say that we want to do so in those who are most socially affected, in this respect, and we want to do so in a way where, as we have already done twice in fact. Done mainly to ensure that the indirect effects of Covid do not affect these people. Here I think of people with disabilities as pensioners to the extent that they are actually affected. The second thing I want to say, of course, is that the economy is mainly affected by measures in areas where the economy is most affected. This is in the area of tourism and also in the field of tourism, some of you have mentioned the industry of meetings and so on, accompanying areas. And here I would like to say that, of course, this part of the economy also goes to the financial majority of these measures, so of course we also extend the vouchers and here I also have to say that the economy works, that unemployment is less than in 2019, that bankruptcy is less than in 2019, that, of course, this economy and here goes on to thank them and, of course, all the efforts that are taking place can be financed by health, by health, which in turn, I will say, the biggest resistance that health workers are actually doing is saving direct life. Why the decrees? Why not normal procedures? Why does he have to go to law school on a speedy basis? Because Covid's disease, if you want, the virus, here is so fast and it spreads so quickly that any action that would follow procedures that would last here for 6 months, 9 months, as of course takes some public debate and so on, actually achieve a much greater negative effect than it achieves by having to react quickly, quickly in those areas that are of course the most acute. So, from this point of view, of course, I'm going to say, in some way, I'm going to say, I'm going to justify why, above all, the so-called laws that speak of preventing Covid are quickly put in place by the government, in a more rapid or urgent procedure. Unfortunately – unfortunately – there is no other way around here more often, it is necessary to react much faster, especially because we are still living in the Covid period. Once again, this law highlights changes in three areas – health, economic and social protection for individuals. This, of course, and with the aim of limiting the spread of the virus on the one hand, also to ensure the functioning of the economy by additional means and by protecting the most vulnerable and socially vulnerable individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Jože Lenart has the word to prepare Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. On the table, of course, we have the treatment of the PKP10. Of course, we all expected that the PKP10 will finally solve with all these interventions, the COVID-19 measures all the areas that the previous 9 packages did not solve, what we have missed, what we have, say, also misapproached and so on. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to see that today. And to say the following. Today, too, the minister, even now in his final speech, made it clear that it is urgent to act quickly. But now there's something I don't understand. But if the NIJ Director had already announced the fourth wave in August, and today we are at the end of December, where is the rapid action here? Furthermore, if, in the Committee on Finance itself, we received a mass during the session, if so expressed, amendments to accept that we could not even have seen what was going on, what measures were going on, how would they affect the economy, the social, those who were disadvantaged in this epidemic, cannot work, and today, we have just been informed, 15 pages of the new amendments, now, if I look from the point of view of some responsibility as a Member in this National Assembly, how can I realistically assess how these measures are good, weak, how they work in the short term, in the long term? We can't do that, I'll say, with some responsibility today to raise our hands or, I'll say, not lift them up to say no. I mean, in this way, it seems to me that it is quite irresponsible of this government to approach and do so. Now, if we know that, at the very meeting of the Finance Committee, the State Council has thus issued a negative assessment of the PKP10 measures, that the Legislative and Legal Service has made almost 50 pages of comments that they are inconsistent with the legislation, that they even violate the Constitution of Slovenia, the entire opposition opposes where these reasons are not acceptable, and yet the President of the Finance Committee himself has expressed at the meeting those amendments, which were then tabled, that 75% of these amendments are contrary to the legislation, that they are not acceptable, and yet that the coalition has adopted them, without our presence, members of the opposition, and so on today, that we have added to the 15-page amendments that we have not yet been able to read, but we are already considering and we want to vote about this today, it is kind of unacceptable that we are considering this PKP10, which we are not, of course, which we are not yet, of course, will say. Of course, I am most concerned with this also, how it affects, these CAP measures, on our country's liquidity, on our budgetary documents, which we have already adopted in some way. What we are in 2022 is practically behind us. Also 2021 is, in principle, a year behind us and we have a very clear picture of what it is. For 2022-2023, this will all work and today I cannot assess what will happen. The current picture of these budget documents, which we have adopted, is clear that the additional indebtedness of the country of Slovenia is 11 billion and a half from this data, but new, new amendments, new measures that are increasing this gap. Now, where is the problem that the European Commission is warning us about? The European Commission reminds us that we are increasing the structural deficit and that we have brought it to a point which will virtually be impossible to achieve a balanced goal back as follows for this area and a very clear picture, and in four years the state of Slovenia will be in debt by 11 billion and a half with this deficit, if we look at it alone, and for Covid the expenditure amounts to 5 billion 600, that is to say, less than half and that other deficit, which relates to the structural deficit, is 5 billion 800 n, as fast as I look at these amendments and these measures, which are the PKP 10, I have a feeling that only additionally this structural deficit increases that I am not talking about the other laws that we are also going to adopt today, where it is reducing taxes, which will also have a significant impact on this increase in structural deficit and that we are concerned. Dear Minister, I want you to explain this area more specifically, that you are more explicit about what this means, but not just everything is fine, everything is fine. I believe that it is good, all of these measures, when we pour money on people, group, and all of this is very short-term impact on GDP growth. If all of this were so effective, then the growth of Slovenia should be the EBRD, the European Commission and all others, including the international institutions should be Slovenia, I will say, then give more opportunities for this growth of GDP from which we could come out, but we are still somewhere on the average of European countries and this does not lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We're not on average about GDP growth. We are above average, close to 7%, all forecasts start with 6 but with more than 6.5 and we are above average both in terms of growth and among the first if not first in terms of unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word to prepare Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say in the introduction that I will not support the bill, but I will state the reasons why. Minister, you surprised me too with the statement that we are taking decisions because they need to be taken quickly. But look, the fact is, the prepared proposal came in our bench too late. The procedure was introduced on 19 November and the epidemic situation began to deteriorate by the end of the summer. On August 6th, the director of the Institute for National Health warned us about this, and today we are the end of December. The second reason, of course, is that this law is also re-adopted without the necessary social dialogue. On the one hand, you ask us to cooperate, on the other hand, not to say what shows my arrogance by not wanting to establish either social dialogue or the renewed functioning of the Economic and Social Council. True, social dialogue is not a legal obligation, but I believe that it is not a matter of neglect or neglecting the experience and knowledge that the social partners have and could use their proposals to help prepare such intervention measures as would be good for the majority. In this way, the government is also in some way showing its attitude towards democracy or democratic adoption of laws. Not to say that disputed articles and articles that are not of an intervention nature have been re-emerged in the law-law service, this is what the Fiscal Council has also warned us about, and let me repeat what has already been said today, the epidemic has not been declared. I don't know why, Mr. Minister, maybe you could tell me why or because we don't have the financial resources to pay the allowances, given that the epidemic was declared twice in 2020? For the first time, 12. 3. when less than 5% were confirmed, secondly 19. 10. When the daily share of covid infected was 18%, a week ago this proportion was poor 34% and today we read that we have fewer than 200 patients in intensive wards. Should I take that as a good thing? It has also been said, and I am also of the opinion that the law does not contain the necessary measures to help the most affected economic sectors. I do not believe that we will save the meeting industry with tourist vouchers, but we do know that this segment employs more than 15,000 people and that 20,000 people are directly associated with this activity. Slovenia is among the most inefficient and anti-korona measures shown by studies of various economic experts. It is encouraging to talk about good results and it is commendable that we have good economic growth, a relatively low unemployment rate, but it is also right to say that this has cost us very much. I can't tell from this seat whether we've paid too much for this. The numbers show we paid a lot of money. What's it gonna be like in 2022? There will certainly be challenges. You have repeatedly pointed out that the course of the blind pandemic is unpredictable. We will face lower economic growth. This will depend largely on household consumption and also on the traps set by rising inflation. I fear that this is no longer short - lived or that the predictions of the smarter ones predict that it will not stop so quickly at the same time before the predicted rise in interest rates of the central banks or the great dilemma that awaits us or how we will act or how we will set the right date or the right time to abandon the pandemic measures. Something in this direction has already ordered us to meet the European Central Bank, which I think was on 17 December. It would be right to start preparing for this today, not to repeat at all times and to see how important the predictable environment is for both society and the economy, and that certain extensions need to be prepared in proportion and before these problems that I have mentioned and predicted actually arise. Indeed, PKP10 also contains some urgent measures that are needed, which are welcome, to help the most vulnerable, which are needed primarily to predict the irritation of living needs and energy, but, again, I say, even in this measure, there is a whole range of selective solutions that have long been neglected by certain sectors of the economy. In the LMŠ, we have proposed that the Government should first prepare appropriate additions to the law to remove contested measures and measures that are not of an intervention nature. We then proposed supplements to the proposal for a law. We know how it was on the Finance Committee, but most of our proposals are in line with the practice we have not adopted by the coalition. The exceptions were merely to supplement or delete those articles, which were also endorsed by the coalition and relate to the so - called rule of decrees, which you really justify in your own way. As far as the amendments are concerned, the colleague or colleague has already said, we will explain the reasons and then explain the content of the amendments below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I was misrepresented at the last speaker. When I spoke about the speed of action, I was not talking about the decrees, but about the ten laws or the ten laws and the previous nine, which were adopted by emergency procedure, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the legal order in full. So from this point of view, I was focused exclusively on the laws that I am also here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, to prepare Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting, Minister! Colleagues, colleagues! We have the 10th PKP today, and just before the new year, the full year was already in a hurry in August, but okay. Despite the procedure that has taken place in this PKP10, we really cannot. On one occasion, it was considered that both the legislative and the executive authorities were separate, at least that is what it says. It's also in this book. It's called, by the way, a colleague from the Constitution Coalition, the blue color is this one we got. Article 110, it also states that the Government is responsible to the DZ. But that's how it's supposed to be, and that's what it says. Except for who this government is. For a year and a half, we have been watching what we are seeing today, or what will happen today. And for a year and a half, people have been standing outside writing thousands and thousands of e-mails. Because that's what you just whistle at. What happened was you filed before the session, before the meeting of the Finance Committee you put 90 amendments on 40 pages, and since August you have been running this PKP10 because it is so full of haste. That's what you said. Today we received 16 pages of new amendments on the table, and the Legal and Legislative Service has written on 40 pages of comments. And what do you do? Nothing. You just whistle at it. And you're obviously following that solar system, and that's me. That's what it looks like. And that's why people are angry, so people are protesting, so they're going to take us all out because you're screaming at all the things that the expert is explaining to you. Because you don't hear any professional comments sent to you by all possible trade unions and yet I don't know what confederacy, but you hear the opposition anyway. And this procedure that you've afforded, that someone who was thrown out of Desus is still speaking on behalf of Desus, because it's either way a paradox from the paradox, but okay, that's his karma, it's actually a horror. And this has to go into books and it will go into books as never to be done in this National Assembly. I am sorry that I am present in this appeal or that I have to watch these things, because then people throw us all into the same basket, and we are not all the same. We never will, because I don't want to be the same in my life. Now with this law you came from the beginning of the idea of introducing a dictatorship, that you would make this legal basis for the introduction of this dictatorship, and then we tabled amendments in the opposition, of course half of Slovenia jumped into a luft, and now you have changed your mind and you have thought well even those five amendments that we tabled in the opposition, where this investment in the decrees was deleted, you have confirmed that you have really withdrawn them. I mean, a man would say a miracle, a miracle in these Christmas times has happened, but of course it's not a miracle. For you were afraid of men, you were afraid of those who write to us, and you were afraid of those who protest. And so you quickly put in some more candy in this PKP 10 to buy them. Only people aren't stupid, people see you're introducing a dictatorship and taking their freedom. People see you take their freedom every day with your rule. And that, as far as LMSH is concerned, is totally unacceptable. Now, given that we will probably no longer have to talk about the new articles we have tabled in article 20 because, as we can see, the legislative service says something. I will still tell you what we did, what we wanted to do with these amendments. In particular, we have tabled a new 20th Article, a new 20.b Article in order to help the industry with meetings and fairs, because these are the two most affected activities. The additions are being abolished, events that are being prepared much in advance are being abolished and the costs to companies remain. Companies in those economic activities estimate that this activity, in addition to the loss of long-term income, will also lose qualified or qualified personnel, which simply means that all those who have done so will either go or a large majority of them. And what “day after” will be, of course, you are not interested. Therefore, we have also proposed that the amount of these costs from 10, the costs of the organisation from 10 thousand, should be reduced to 5 thousand and that the period of validity of this measure should also be extended, it is said that if it were cancelled by 30. 6. These measures also apply. Now you've obviously decided not to do it again. I find it difficult to understand how you do not understand that if an organisation of an event or a fair is preparing for months and if it suddenly cancels and even if it moves into a different form, in this case, I don't know, even the audio form that costs remain. That is why, of course, this industry also needs to be helped, but yes. The contentious articles in this law, as we are already accustomed to all the PKPs, are, of course, vast, from those already said, to rulings and legislating dictatorships, to those which, of course, do not have completely but absolutely nothing to do with the epidemic. For example, repatriated persons are allowed to arrange permanent status in RS upon termination of the status of repatriated persons. Lowering the threshold for the purpose of the congregations and so on. If these things need to be settled, then we can arrange them in the way we should handle them, not by setting them up in the PKP. By the way, the law that we will then adopt over one point or two is de-de-barcation as you do, so at least you spoke because there are too many laws in this country and there is too much confusion in the field of legislation. And what are you doing with these PKPs from 1 to 10? You're causing three times as much confusion. And push in everything that fits and everything that doesn't fit there because you have to meet some needs, anyone. Now, with these PKPs, of course, you are also introducing changes that constitute a permanent intervention into systemic legislation. And that's not exactly what we're supposed to be doing with some kind of intervention legislation, but that's all you're doing all the time. The Fiscal Council has repeatedly pointed out that the government in the PKP has also included a number of such measures that did not correspond to the basic objective of reducing the consequences of the epidemic, which, by the way, is still undeclared. And he's not yet a hero by the government to explain to the citizens why it's not announced. However, when the government of Marjan Šarc acted, you wondered why the epidemic had not yet been declared, and here in the National Assembly some wondered why there was no one in Slovenia who was infected. But that's when we announced the epidemic. Today, when over 6,000 people died, you don't do it. And, Minister, I am very, very interested in what you will answer this question, why the government has not yet done so. Now, about what is going on with all this legal confusion and what is going to happen later, when all of this needs to be corrected, we are going to talk to you today, because we are going to apply for a debate with all of those amendments that we have also tabled and you have even welcomed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u39	Thank you, too. A representative of the Magi government has the floor. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would like to answer the question of what we are doing with the CAP laws. Because it's happening again. With PKP laws, this is already 10 years before you, honourable Members and Members, saving lives, improving human health, ensuring employment and maintaining the functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Miha Kordish, prepare Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, the government of Janez Janša and Minister Šircelj with their PKP laws are saving people's lives around the same way that Minister Restoring with their golf and masks and fans saved their lives. And we all know what was really going on — the profits, the commissions of certain electorates in and around the government of John Janša. Laws, packages, PKP10, operate in exactly the same logic and do not have anything to do with ensuring public health for citizens and citizens, but rather use the covida-19 epidemic to help certain rounds of capital around the government, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that through these marriage packages the government tries to buy votes from certain groups of citizens and citizens. Says Minister Shircelj that rapid action is needed in the epidemic. Therefore, laws must be enforced through the State Council’s Mill, and it is therefore necessary to rule by decrees rather than by laws, as we have this example of the content of the Law on Infectious Diseases. But let's look at this quick action by the government of Janez Janša after almost two years of epidemic. This epidemic has not been declared. We are suing for burdened, overloaded hospitals, senior citizens' homes, the staff there – the epidemic has not been declared. The most contagious version of the virus has yet to come, omicron – the epidemic has not been declared. Minister Shircel, if the situation is in a hurry, if the situation is drastic, and I think it's in a hurry and it's drastic, then why isn't the epidemic declared? Answer me this question if you are telling me how up-to-date you are in the government and how quickly you respond to the needs of citizens and citizens. The legal basis for such interventions is to declare an epidemic, but the epidemic in this country is officially not legal. But there's something else, like PKP-10, a raise in wages for medical tandarines. Those best-paid doctors, among whom also has 15,000 euros a month's salary. At the same time, there are €80,000 of citizens and citizens under the poverty risk threshold in the country, and within the public sector there are 22 wage classes below the minimum wage level. Is it true, Minister Shircelj, that you're in a hurry to raise your wages for medical tandarines over the 57th grade? Over 4,000 euros. For one who is already receiving 15,000 euros to get another thousand euros. This is some content that is in such a hurry that it is necessary to quote you “to act quickly.” Or, after all, it is only a naked fact that we are dealing with the 10th – 10th – PKP package, with the contents that should be set up and solved shortly after the outbreak and should stand and stand and stand through this entire epidemic, but not that every few months and from nothing, together the marriage packages that break and bulldoze under Slovenian legislation have a whole bunch of things that do not have to do with social protection in the epidemic and not with health care in the epidemic. You know, you so slobbering scoundrels. Well, in this case, the first of these kind of subordinates is precisely this raise in wages, an unjustifiable rise in wages for medical tandarines for that narrowest part of the most privileged people within the medical profession, who have usurped all the medical institutions, from the Fides union to the Medical Chamber, who are in fact controlled by hospitals and who are close friends with the current government of Janez Janša. These are things for which the Government is in a hurry and for which it would act quickly. To reward certain circles around him and nothing much else. We do not see any similar consistency when we talk about solidarity allowances and assistance to citizens and citizens. There, however, it multiplies into “shamparija” to “shamparija”, which is not the end. Let's just look at this time iteration of the solidarity allowance for pensioners. Thirdly and thirdly, this solidarity allowance will be paid unfairly. Why? Because it's paid step-by-step. Pensioners up to €510 will receive €300, and if you only have 1 euro more pension, €511 more, you will get €70 less, you will get €230. Why, by what logic? Is that fair, is that fair? 1 euro pension gap, 70 euros difference in the solidarity allowance. I mean, what making fun of people is this and playing poor pensioners against each other. There is a technical solution to eliminate such a step-by-step payment of the solidarity allowance for pensioners. For the first time, when it was distributed and entered into legislation, we put an amendment in which we wrote a formula to adjust the actual amount of the solidarity allowance paid to a certain pensioner, to its real existing pension, and there would be no new additional injustice and mistreatment of people, as you do even with your "consumer" social candy with which you beat each other's breasts. Similarly, the disabled were short - lived. Again, not everyone. Those with disabilities who are in the worst social situation, who are also unemployed, can hope for a solidarity supplement. Then we have a whole bunch of disabled people who are working disabled, who are active, and they just fell out of the original proposal, and this didn't happen for the first time, it happened in previous PKP packages, and in previous PKP packages we had to solve this from opposition benches with amendments. Of course, the coalition voting machine then hit them, and then only the idea and content of thank God at least some of it was adopted in the next iterations of the antikoronic package. I can continue with the question of waiting days in our health system. We have received invitations under this Government to reduce waiting periods, which have been heavily financed by public funds, we are talking about more than €10 million, but this whole call and additional financial injection was made on the basis of non-existent data and the Government has rushed to explain that we do not need more data and that we do not need more analysis or depending on which government official you ask. What other said that we have all the necessary data has been realized at only 6% of the planned programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, we told you this, at the time we told you at the first call to shorten waiting hours, that you simply can't just throw some money into the public health system or into the health system without knowing why you're going to spend it and you didn't listen and the results are here. In fact, I'm still explaining this from a benevolent position as if you really have any intention of shortening the waiting period and you don't have it. The whole purpose of the call to shorten waiting periods was to further privatise and step up the public health system under the cover of the epidemic, because you wanted to focus these funds on private health pockets at the expense of public health institutions, and that was precisely what it was, then also the realization of even improbable to the accepted opposition amendment, that these funds were given cascadingly, that they were first received by public hospitals and then, at the end, that they could be used by pure individuals, but it happened again exactly what we announced in Levica. However, doctors in public hospitals refused to use these same interventions, which would be financed by a public hospital tender, so much the more they used them as health care professionals who operated in the private health system at the same time. There, however, they found the will at once, and the interest in capacity, because they would earn even more fat than they are now serving, and here it is very well depicted for whom John Janša’s work actually reigns. It works for the first-class and at the expense of our apprentices, our public health system also in the form of marriage packages such as the PKP-10, all of this very clearly reflects, irrespective of how much solidarity measures these intentions and ambitions are covered up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Kar you choose, as a representative of the government, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u46	Thank you. I guess we didn't get along so well. Now, to start with, I didn't talk about doctors at all, I was talking about privileged work within the medical profession, those who have 10,000 euros a month's salary and 15,000 euros a month's salary and 80,000 anti-korona supplements and similar stories. 50 best paid public servants are 46 doctors. These profiles are not discussed by doctors in general. As for the younger doctors, who, according to my assessment, are underpaid for their work, and I think we can agree on that, we have only acted in opposition to our amendment when we say raise their pay grade. Those doctors who work up to €2,000 of gross monthly payment should be raised by four pay grade. And those who work for a little bit more should rise by three pay grade. These are underpaid people, not diverse Mrs Kuštrini and others with five-digit salary numbers, who cannot in any way compensate for the responsibility you now claim, so that this raise of the highest wages already paid by doctors has nothing to do with responsibility, but in fact only with swallowing. The whole cascade of pay raises for the best paid doctors began with a salary raise for nurses and other designated staff in health care and in the homes of older citizens. Mr Konrad Kuštrin said on this subject, such as an insult to this increase, be careful that the increase for medical proletariat is an insult to the evaluation of the work of doctors and dentists and the additional slapping of doctors. In doing so, I would like to point out that this raise in the wages of nurses and other preletarians in homes and health care was unfeeling about certain profiles of people such as servers. Why? Because their basic salaries are placed under very minimum wages and no raise here has raised the actual income they get from their salary, but you in this Government obviously have no sympathy and no obedience for these people, but these are the basic building blocks on which both health and care stands, but you don't care at all and you don't care. However, for this whole story, it may also have something to do with the reduction of waiting periods and these invitations to tender that, through this call, commercial health insurance companies have laundered part of the money that they confiscated from the supplementary insurance to the insurers in the epidemic because they have not paid it further to carry out and carry out their activities, but instead purchased health institutions such as the Bled diagnostic centre. A private office in which one of these governments is likely to move after the end of the term, too, is it not, sir?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. The modus operandi for the adoption of laws, especially the PKPs of this government, are somehow the following. Everything is adopted at the last moment, even though the Minister says everything is very urgent, but the government always brings all the last moment to the National Assembly, as on Thursday, when we received 43 pages of the amendments in the morning. We also got some of them on the table today, so it's already a constant for us to adopt these laws, which, of course, is not okay. The other thing is one bunch of scoundrels. You didn't surprise the PKP10 with that either. In fact, in the PKP10 there is a number of things that are systemic and do not fit in this intervention legislation because they do not actually have any connection to the quid. I'll tell you a little bit more. This is what you're always bringing in legal mess, confusion, and, if I say so at home, you're actually going into legal hooliganism. This is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and, if we also look at some of the cases that the Constitutional Court is also talking about. Systemic laws, permanent changes are being changed in the CAP, which is not intended to intervene, intervention laws and, above all, all of the PKPs are still additionally drilling a hole in public finances by not saying that these measures are not important. However, a lot of them have nothing to do with the kivid and no, there is no need to accept them in the PKPs. This is also evidenced by a recent study that says that our actions like this government are very much appreciated, even today it has been heard how effective the measures are, are not as effective as they should be or as the government says they are. Indeed, for such a large contribution as the Government has earmarked for all these measures, we do not have such a result and there is no such significant impact on GDP growth, and we know that the current GDP is actually financed from debt itself and past stocks. And I'm just wondering if the minister or the government has a scenario in place when all these companies that are currently on subsidies, when they're gone, what's gonna happen. We know that we call this a zombie company, of course, that currently unemployment is extremely low and perhaps, yes, in the history of Slovenia the lowest, which is great. But what happens when these measures no longer apply? We know that it follows that we have the prospect of inflation, that the ECB will no longer be so kind as to buy government bonds, that the interest rate will also rise. And then it will show how effective the measures are and how well this government is taking action. Today, the minister said, in fact, he has repeatedly stressed this, but today he has also responded specifically to a replica of what the government is doing with the PKPs. He's saving lives. Great, but then I ask myself, is raising wages in the public sector in some PKP with a single amendment, saving lives? We know that with the supplements that this government has so far spent more than € 4.6 billion on a code of measures, of which only a billion have been spent on healthcare supplements. And wouldn't it make more sense to settle down? We know that these supplements have been unfairly distributed and that they should be in nominal terms, and that the government has not regulated this today. You prefer to put in PKP10 a raise of wages again, and this only to a certain group, doctors and dentists – the best paid, is said to be one third of doctors who have already been paid best. So that there will be no mistake, we all agree that this matter needs to be settled, just not in this way. Besides, you've forgotten what happens to young doctors. They actually started right now with this mantra that it is necessary to settle this wage relationship, that wages should be arranged, but no, you are only a certain group raised your wages, but you obviously forgot about the young doctors, but they should keep working the way they do. Then the next thing I think the government seems to be saving lives is a change of ZIPRS. Is this the space that the ZIPRS change has space in the PKP10? We have also received one amendment today to amend Article 33 of the ZIPRS, where there is no need for the consent of the Minister of Finance in advance payments to municipalities over €100,000, as regards public procurement, or prepayments to municipalities above the value of €100,000. This is also essential; we urgently need to accept this in the CAP10. We lower the standards of the Slovenian language of health workers. Changes in conditions also in public procurement in municipalities or local communities. Local communities won't have to have public contracts. And I don't know how long it's been since public procurement's been tied to territory. As far as I know, it's a public order, it's always about the height it is, but it's also obviously an emergency measure that we need to take in the PKP10. On the other hand, we have already made amendments to the Committee on Finance for a group of companies, which are still in a worse position and cannot operate like all other economies, which are more or less functioning normally, and this is the meeting industry and the seed activity. This was, even on the part of the Committee on Finance in the first step, assessed as an unacceptable amendment and would not go to the vote, although then the Chairman of the Committee on Finance decided to put all the amendments to the vote on the Committee itself. Apparently, he got a little upset because now it's a pre-godly time, and he was like a Santa Claus to put all the amendments to the vote. But we all know why – because most of the amendments came from the coalition and it was clear that all amendments needed to be accepted. Therefore, on Thursday, we also obstructed the meeting by members of the Committee on Finance, as regards the opposition's sides, because it was extremely inappropriate and unacceptable for the President of the Committee on Finance to act. Now, what else do you want me to say? The Minister says that we are also above average everywhere, in economic growth itself, unemployment, that we have the lowest unemployment. That's all he's holding right now, but I'm wondering what the price is. At what cost did we achieve all of this? The study shows that we've given too much as we'll get the result back. And above all, we are above average at the very level of public debt. We know that we are in the top third of Europe's countries, where we owe our fellows the most at this time. And this certainly is not a good journey for the future and especially for the next government. However, it has already been said on one of the Committees of Finance, I think that the President himself has stated that this is not our problem anymore, and the next government will deal with it. So this is the modus operandi of this government, right now we have to share as much as possible, get peace, as many elected candy as possible, but what happens with the next government is not our problem, and then it will be our problem as it will be. That's it for now. We have also tabled several amendments to the LMŠ with the opposition, and then I will also contact the individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State before we open a new round of applications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I believe that you know very well how social dialogue is going. I believe you also know very well what the tariff part of the collective contract contains for doctors and dentists. And I believe you know that there are young doctors on this list, if we call them, specials, those who finish specializations, and so on. And I don't know where you come from not being involved in social dialogue, I really don't know. He's also on the list, and there are young doctors. That is why they will also be involved in social dialogue and are always involved in social dialogue. And they too will receive this, this negotiation to raise wages. So I don't know, I really don't know where you're getting your paychecks from, just some elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u51	Thank you very much. As I see that interest in the debate is still, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got eight interviewees reported. The first one gets the word mag. Dejan Židan, Mr. Marijan Pojbič is behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government, welcome. But is the law before us, because the ruling government has withdrawn some of the most controversial articles due to proposals by the opposition and the pressure of civil society, what is more appropriate for admission? The answer is no. For at least three substantive reasons, the law is inappropriate for anyone to vote favourably for it today. To count them. First of all, the law is fundamentally immoral. Why? Because, like the 9 PKP before that, it mixes useful, necessary and good solutions with harmful ones. And such mixing is really immoral. Secondly, the law is procedurally controversial. I know someone's asking why the procedure is so important. You know, the process or procedure is the foundation of democracy. The collapse of the process is the destruction of democratic institutions. And this was the first time in this law on the Finance Committee when the CAP was adopted. At the first nine admissions, the procedure was respected. In today’s and last week’s events, the process was carried out. And the attack on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is an attack on the institution itself. It surprises me at all because the President of Parliament did not respond properly to this. Thirdly, there are, of course, some positive and some highly controversial solutions in the content. I'll count them up. On the one hand or on the one hand, a relatively short marriage deals with how to close a school. If we could get a ruling view at least across borders, we would look at a new version of the UNB in Germany. They put schools, kindergartens, colleges, universities that have to stay open. In our country, however, because of the weak minister and the lack of recognition of the importance of young people all over the country, you are working on how to close schools. Secondly, you're dividing people into each other again. Someone who has a pension of 730 euros is again receiving a one-time allowance. I'll give it to him. Someone with a pension of 750 won't get anything again. This pensioner or pensioner also paid in his working age to the pension fund. And this pensioner and pensioner also have needs. Do you know what kind of injustice you're doing with this? Come in. The penal provisions show how you imagine controlling the epidemic. Threatening and punishing the most in an open space where people are really the safest. Let's threaten, let's raise our penalties, but in the open space, people are the safest. What's additionally unacceptable is that you're actually paying the pay elite. The law doesn't solve problems where they are. These are too low wages in personal health care this law does not save. This has already been resolved in a different way with the current regulation and with this adopted law. The law itself does not save the wages of young doctors. What, respected and respected, you have forgotten to say the pay system is probably valid at the moment for 180,000 people in the public sector and has been the subject of discussions, agreements and at the end of the compromise by increasing the wages of the group of most paid individuals. Look, who's among the 50 most paid, who's among the 100 most paid and who's among the thousand most paid? What are you reporting? You say you work for the elite. We know that using words will be better and so on. Do you know similar arguments apply for the last 15 years? Let's raise wages, let's increase the number of people and general funding. After 15 years, respected and respected, when the number of doctors in Slovenian public hospitals – 27 of them – rose from 2700 to 4100 by a bad 50 percent, it increased. Unfortunately, only 13% of doctors in appropriate health care have increased in the last 15 years, but it has also increased. If, in particular, the salaries of doctors have increased in the last 15 years and where funding has increased here, but not in the last 15 years, let us be willing to raise wages again. It does not matter that we deeply humiliate all the other 170,000 employees in the public sector, it does not matter that this money is not like the nurses I afford, they really needed it, but 200 million did not provide it. Do you know what the result will be next year? Yes, yes, the money from the health department will go for wages and more and more for wages and less and less money will be for services. Why do we already have a medical system? To provide ever higher wages to an increasing number of health workers or simply to give sick people treatment? Today, we are not even talking about this anymore, just people, higher wages, more investments, and people are almost out of words. Of course, I know that trade unions have announced that they will go to the Constitutional Court with this article, I know that this money is not that if this article is adopted means even less services for sick people who are already difficult to get doctors. I'll end up like this. It's a good thing you're listening to the union, but why don't you ask the right question. Do you know what the real question is, or are health teams doing similar work in different hospitals similarly effective? This question was raised and you closed it in your government. When you ask ahead. Are health teams in state hospitals similar to those in concessionaires or in private? The answer is that this is a question that must not be asked. You need to answer these questions, and you need to ask these questions. Only by increasing the number of employees, raising wages, additional funding, because we have all done this together for the last 15 years. Once again, to tell you the number of doctors in Slovenian hospitals has increased by 50 per cent and how many waiting types have decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u54	I'll be very brief. Mr Židan most likely read article 71a, funding certain measures at the ZZS, where he also speaks as long as higher wage obligations arise, this will cover the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u56	The written word is important. But when I tell you at this point, without these salaries, you're missing 300 to 500 million money for about, for about as decent a healthcare job as it is, and this money is not yet in the state budget, when you're completely short of money for long-term care, which is not provided additional money for nurses, we can write it down, it will be provided from the state budget, but, you know, the amount of money available there is going to go down. Two and a half billion minus there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, followed by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So first of all, I just want a short sentence on this discussion by my colleague on the other side or on my right, if I can call it that, who talked about how some things shouldn't be done and how things are done wrong. At the same time, he said, that's exactly what we've been doing for the last 15 years. Mr. Jew, please take a look at the magnetogram, that's your statement. So you've been doing wrong for the last 15 years. And then we should be very critical and self-critical to ourselves. As far as I am concerned, dear colleagues and colleagues, this law, as well as amendments, of which no one has spoken until now, I can say that I will not then announce that I will support the amendment of the coalition, and of course the law as proposed has also supported it, of course with amendments. At the same time, I would like to stress and ask all Members and Members of the Parliament, all the Members who are sitting here in the National Assembly, to be aware of the urgency and needs of this law that we have on the table. This law is not intended for Members and Members, but is intended for us, of course, because we are the same people who are meant for people. It is intended for vulnerable groups and is also intended for the economy. And now I will try to briefly repeat those key fundamental arguments or the reasons why this law is on the table today. I will also conclude my debate with this. And just for a short time, this law of the CAP10 saves health care, so it helps to solve things in the health system and help individuals and, of course, the economy. It foresees a single solidarity allowance for pensioners up to €714, ranging from € 130, 230 to €300. It also provides supplements for non-retirement farmers over 65 years of age, disabled persons and veterans of war, as well as a monthly allowance for members of the security and rescue forces and an allowance for students and students who help care for patients in health or welfare institutions. It also extends last year's tourist vouchers. The latter will be valid until the end of June 2022. Dear colleagues, is there anyone among you who does not support what I have just read? Let him tell me that then he does not support the extension of tourist vouchers, does not support the addition to pensioners and so on and so on. It's very easy to discuss and say, yes, because this marriage has some good things, but I won't support it for that. I just don't get it. You just can't understand that. The law will never be written down and written in such a way that everyone will be content. No one has ever written such a law, regardless of which government is in power and which coalition is in the National Assembly, ever and never. That is why I expect and ask that at least the key things that are intended for people are agreed and we can come together. And one such law as this, which is before us, which helps the most at stake in helping the most vulnerable to vote for it and to vote in order to help these groups as well. And I'm really asking you, let's stop playing demagogy. I know that we are political parties and that the time is — how long? — five or six months before the election, so that some try and want to stand out here as much as possible behind this microphone in order to address people in this way. But that's how you get people to say in the same breath that one marriage has good sides, but you won't support it, and then it's the wrong way to say it. For me, it's the wrong way to talk. And we have to and we have to help people who need help. And we are obliged to help an economy that needs help because of the circumstances in which we live. Not because some government came up with this. Because of circumstances that rule the world over. And because of this, my dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask that we abstain from the demagogic debates in such an important situation and a few days before the new year and focus on what this law offers, on what I have read, what are the key reasons for adopting this law, there is no problem at the same time, everyone has the right to his own view, to his own opinion. I don't have a problem with that. However, I would like, at least for the end of the year, to just kind of collide and vote for what is good for people. I always like to say this, from people to people, because we are Members and Members elected by people to solve their problems and problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u60	Thank you. Because the Member of Parliament mentioned me. Yeah, you got me right. All the last 15 years of government, when it was said, let's do something for the patients, we listened to the voice of the unions, and we wanted more people, better wages, better conditions. And it is true, in the last 15 years, because we have listened to the number of doctors in hospitals increased by almost 50%, in primary health care by 13, nurses by the way also by 35%. There's a substantial amount of money available. And if anyone did, we'd raise their salaries to doctors. But it didn't work. Today the most common question that we, here too, decide about money, have the right to ask whether the health team averages in the Slovenian hospital is as effective as the health team in the concessionaire, in the private sector or if you want to cross the border? And if we ask that, they tell us that these are almost unworthy questions. So, with substantially increased money substantially higher salaries, significantly more health personnel, where did we come from? That's why I'm telling you not to say, in fact, that if we raise an extra 25%, because that means 25%, it'll be better. It's never been better, because it's better because of the organization and we have to do more here. However, if we increase wages by 25% to the best paid in the public sector, it is entirely justified that we also raise wages by 25% of this specific cleaner in this national council, the professor, the schoolmaster, I think to the professor and anyone else, the scientist, and the same right to tell the seller in the discount. If in the public administration, public administration, there is money for 25% in the public sector, and yes, it must also be where taxes are paid. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, this measure is, on the recognition that the classic response will be better for patients if we give more money, more people and more investments do not give the right answer. We all admit that now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor, Mr Primož Siter is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In my debate, first of all, I would like to stop when I intervened in the law on communicable diseases, which is the initial proposal of the law which came from the Government to this Parliament, contained an intervention and amendments to this law by travelling or by means of a constitutional decision. However, last week's coalition on the Finance Committee [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u63	Now, Your Honor Gregorčič, I suggest you focus in your debate on the matter of marriage, which is actually still alive. These articles, which you are talking about, have been withdrawn with the amendments so that today's debate on these articles is completely absurd because they are no longer available. I suggest you focus on the topic that we have on the agenda, and these are the articles that are still in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u64	I will. Thank you for the warning I just wanted to make, but if you can also give me the right time back, that although these articles have been eliminated, which, according to the protesters, today contain some sort of mandatory vaccination leaflet or human rights restriction, this protestor does not today hinder their views, that they are gathering to prove to all citizens and citizens their misunderstanding and ignorance of the epidemiological situation. Why did the coalition decide to do so? Because she did not want to jeopardize the adoption of another more important part of this 10 anti-Korona marriage package, which has financial implications and which allows or gives solidarity supplements to vulnerable groups in order to make it easier for as few victims as possible to overcome these pandemic circumstances and this fourth wave of the epidemic, this law includes a very important solidarity principle and from this point of view it is incomprehensible for me to continue to oppose the proposal by some opposition colleagues. The excuse to keep public finances may even be quite appropriate, they warned that if they were well-intentioned, I could understand them, but I do not understand that some care more about public finances than people do. With regard to the impression that there has been an unacceptable attack on the legislative procedure for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure on the part of the President, I would only point out that whether an amendment is admissible or not by the chairman. The practices of the Presidents of the Heads, Committees and also the President of the National Assembly vary. I would just like to remind you of the 7 PKP package and the adopted amendment on the financing of STA, too, that amendment was inadmissible under this 129th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, but the President of the National Assembly put it to a vote and was adopted smoothly so that at least two criteria would be good if you did not have them cool in the coalition, if you have already highlighted this as the main reason for obstructing the Committee's meeting. One more thing about regulating the salaries of doctors, raising one of the upper limits of pay grade. As you know, it is only an increase in the framework for further negotiations with the Fides Union. This is also partly the realisation of the strike agreement since 2016, when the Government was led by the Government of Mir Cerar or the Ministry of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. I don't see anything tragic about that. But if there are some extremely high wages in the so-called medical elite, it's just a few individuals I agree with. If the matter is too tight or there is a derogation, this should be arranged in an appropriate manner. In the first place, I understand these provisions, which are included in the PKP-10 concerning the pay grade of doctors only for the purpose of solving the truly difficult material financial situation of young doctors. These are paid shamefully low for full responsibility and after more than a decade of study they regret this health system, the public health system does not allow for adequate career advancement and also an adequate reward for the work done. And I think that in this area, we must then take many further steps in a systematic way and adjust our health system to be comparable to neighbouring countries, where these young doctors then leave when they are educated or educated at the expense of all taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. And to prevent that, even in this context, I see the proposed legal changes, I support them. Perhaps only a suggestion to government representatives that these articles might be worth more specialising or modifying the dictatorship in order to make it clear that the financial situation of young doctors is being resolved. As I say, I will support the marriage. It brings good solutions for people, for vulnerable groups. And I don't understand those who favour public finances over the welfare of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Only from a procedural and legal point of view did he explain to all those who may be following us so that they will know what we are talking about. We are currently discussing all the amendments that have been tabled to the articles that have been amended by the Committee on Finance, even if the amendments have been found inadmissible. This is the President, Mr Robert Polnar, who himself confessed when he said 75% of the amendments were inadmissible, and yet you decided on the committee on them. So he's holding it. As regards the admissibility of the amendment with regard to the STA under PKP 7, and only for a procedural explanation, the proposal for this unacceptable amendment was proposed by the SMC Group. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mrs. Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u66	Yes, thank you for that procedural explanation. I too would like to make a special point, for I am well aware of the rules of procedure. Whether an amendment is admissible or not shall be decided by the chairman of the committee or by the National Assembly at the time of the meeting. In doing so, it may or may not rely on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. You know very well, Madam Vice-President, that the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure are interpreted by the presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u67	Yes, thank you very much, Mrs. Gregorchich. I welcome the fact that you also know the rules of procedure. However, let me explain to you, I myself have accompanied the Committee on Finance, where the Chairman of the Committee has made it very clear that he will also put to the vote and to the hearing amendments that are not commercially permissible. And I was just talking about it in my own explanation. So much so that the viewers, the citizens who accompany us, believe us, know the way this coalition works. Just like that. However, I agree with you, the Rules of Procedure are interpreted by the President. And no waving in the hall. And it is my duty to procedurally explain what the debate is about today and what we are voting on today or what amendments are on the table. Just like that. So if you're up for it, let's move on with the debate. Mrs Sukič has a procedural proposal before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u68	Yes, Madam President, otherwise you have already explained yourself. Please give a warning to this, but Monica Gregorčič for this rude insistence and deception of the public and mockery of Parliament. Tell her, explain to her that the President himself has found 75% of the amendments inadmissible and has put them ahead of business rules in spite of everything. I'm sorry, that's the way we don't know democracy. It's called autocracy if the big president decides to overrun the Rules of Procedure. And that's been going on for a month. Beat the rules of procedure at each session, from education forward. We're just watching what's going on. Please remind her, because it is a deception of the public, a mockery of the public, a mockery of democracy, a mockery of Members and a parliamentary procedure. That's really big and unheard of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u69	Thank you very much. For your procedural proposal, of course, I will not give a reminder, colleague Gregorčič, because it is her legitimate right to discuss in any way she wishes and to assess that it is the right thing to do. But I am only from the point of view of procedural and legal and formal clarification of what we are really discussing today, which article and which amendments. So much for that. I think we've made this very clear. Mr Primož Siter has the floor to follow. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'll start where the debate ends. Now, this year we celebrate as we have heard several times in the opening positions of the parliamentary groups, in these days we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Slovenian Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the final stage of that supreme guardian of order in the country, that backbone also of the rule of law, and we now have before us a re-educational school example of what is the breakdown of the rule of law, that is, some legal system that holds things in society after the end, ensuring that society does not fall into chaos. We now have a repeat here and this is the nth attempt in these last two years, which, past any healthy logic within this legal order, interferes with it and brings chaos and disorder into it. As we've already heard today, it's quite obvious, we're not talking here about any conspiracy theories, some hidden scenarios. At the committee hearing of this law, we had a situation where the president acknowledged that three quarters of all the legal materials coming here were illegal, that they had nothing to do with the epidemic, a healthy logic, that they had nothing to do with the legal order, that they were gravely interfering with and disrupting the legal order, and he waved his hand and he said, oh, we will, however, no matter how and to what extent the opposition has advertised here and demanded nothing but respect for the rule of law. We have not yet come to the content, we have not come to the debate or agree with the substantive solutions or not, we have talked about technicalities. And now, here we have a marriage proposal, a colleague and a colleague who is long, I think some 80 articles, but the legal and legal service, after that obstruction at the committee hearing, was the one who actually spoke the most, so to speak, has given its critical point of view to each article. And we have not only this law, this is the 10th ZUJF, the 10th, apologizes, the PKP, which introduces chaos into the legal order in the way it was introduced, and as it did in the other order nine years ago, ten years ago, the ZUJF, only that there was one stage, and here we have ten consecutive stages, and if we have a few years or consequences, the harmful consequences of the ZUJF and the introduction of chaos into the legal order for a few more years, you can imagine how much time, strength and how many political decisions will have to take, that the harmful consequences of these brutal actions in the legal order called the PKP will go into the future. And of course, every time the government comes with one such harmful CAP, it comes with winged ones, and we eliminate injustice we help everyone, we have not forgotten anyone, but what they forget to say is the fact that the government whose first measure was to raise wages for its ministers, and with this trend they also continue in the CAP, with measures that have nothing to do with the epidemic, that raise wages for everyone is just a nice excuse, and we basically see any legal change that comes with a trick for the richest, that comes with a gift either in the Income Act where the richest have written off some income tax. In a few hours, we will be considering the VAT Act, where they again privilege the management caste and write off something so-called "green fair transition" a few thousand and so on and so forth. It is true that this CAP also contains some social measures, but they are inconceivable, they are unfair, they are pointless, they are completely arbitrary. It's hard to call them social measures. The government, for example, introduces a solidarity allowance for pensioners who receive pensions of less than €714, but again, as in previous CAP thresholds, it provides that pensioners with pensions of up to €510 will receive €300 in allowances if they have €1 more than €70, i.e. €230. Totally arbitrary, no sense at all. And then there's the allowance for beneficiaries of disability benefits, but only on condition that they're unemployed. Yeah, I mean, what about those who work? Who are the beneficiaries of disability insurance, and they're employees? 90% of them are part-time employees with minimum wage as if they did not need any assistance. It's all under the wing that the government doesn't forget anyone or work for everyone. In short, arbitrarily determined, inadvertently, unfairly and with one great oblivion of key vulnerable groups. But what, in addition to giving the wealthiest friends of the current government, is what the purpose of these laws is, and what these withdrawals by the amendment of the opposition now stand back from the 63rd to the 68th articles, which essentially regulated government action, ruling by decrees instead of laws. What the government failed to do with the law on infectious diseases. The Minister of Health was walking from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group without success, and the formation of a law on infectious diseases, which could bring about some order, this key system order, in controlling the epidemic, was not possible. And it all showed that that proposal might be just another edition of the Long-Term Care Act, which was also there just so that, I don't know, the hook was made. Well, then even civil society came forward, put together its own U.N.B., and I hear it doesn't have government support either. So it's either us or no one. Once again, recklessly, unjustly, arbitrarily and with great forgetfulness of a random group of people. In addition to the fact that the disabled, a large group of people with disabilities here turns out that a large group of pensioners fall out here, young doctors also appear. It's time for the government to either put together something and listen to the civil public, or listen to the civil public or listen to the opposition, or April 24 is very close. And in what way does the public evaluate your help that you do not forget about the reference to anyone will be completely clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Duck, he's got a mag behind him. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll continue where Primož ended up. At the time that Bethlehem light came, Ambassador Bah Žibert stated that it was a word in the beginning. Well, we realized that at first there was a word, there were ears. The runners have a big one. And that you can even hear the word. I have no illusions that this government will listen to anyone or anything because it is a government like the Magi. Grimes said well, because we're not a customer, we're a private company of one man. This is a government that neither ministers nor court trusts a doctor’s husband when he goes to the hospital, nor does it say that he wears the surgical gown wrong. Now: “The epidemic is an earthquake, the measures must not be an earthquake sun.”, this is a quote, these are the words of the President of the Constitutional Court and this is the problem we have. Furthermore, for about 2 years we have known about Covid SARS-2 virus and in fact whatever government there is, because some member of NSI or some young community of SDS: “We work for people, the Government works.” Any Government should be able to legislate according to the normal and normal procedure at the latest at the end of August of last year, not this PKPisation. The good lapsus said ZUJF because it's in the base 10 ZUJFs. If someone who does not delve into this accidentally listens to us, what does every PKP do now? Each of these laws predates 10 or 10 to dozens of laws, and each of these PKP sets aside the same number of laws. The original proposal of this 10 was only 10 times, and it was only 11 times round, and then we add it up a little bit together, and it is one such in the essence of the mega of the ZUJF, which we are looking at, and we will obviously look at it actually until the end of this term, which points to some government, which is also incapable of talking about legality, and Meira will say something more about it or the President that I will not be doing a bigger lawyer than I am in a lazily state, and even though it is already 10 of these laws that you will always be able to forget someone as much as Miha has been saying about certain groups of invalids and every one of these laws, although Janša is a horrorist – what he thinks – a virgin to spy a scorpion and drink, then all the media, the civil public, all of us here are going crazy at the same time in a way of these laws – which is going to get paid by a few billion, which is still in his problems. That's actually a fact, that's a quote, that's not what Franz Duck just remembered. This is some kind of pest we need to talk about. Next. Given the personal situation, I personally believe that those of us who belong to be quarter after income in Slovenia have nothing to cry about have nothing to ask for. Not Mr Kolarič, not Mr Golob, not Janša, not you, Mr Secretary of State, not doctors and all the others who belong to one quarter of the most paid in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I live with the German environment and, let's say, this logic is at work in Germany, which the Jew likes to mention elsewhere. I was also there when you took those tourist vouchers and said the same thing. I basically don't need this voucher, and I don't need it talking after me, but I've been here alone almost the only one of the 90's again. This extension of the vouchers shows simply that somehow you do not find any way out in these difficult times. Now the extension of the vouchers will not save Slovenian tourism, and we also have someone in the party who knows this very well. Then there are flowers in there that I can't be against, but it's hard to ask where the logic is. An allowance for a newborn 500 Euro super to 23. 6. 2023. What happens on that day, I don't know. Suki's gonna release a new book or what? Then why don't you at least write it down, until further notice, if that's what this is all about? You know, and also, something to brag about how great we're doing, how OK, yeah, high employment, great, but what incomes, what pensions will have, I don't know, two thirds of employees in the DSOs. [[…]] After all, my brother, who works in a company that always has 35, 45 million profits, never sees it over a thousand, but is in French ownership and would give those Belokrans, Dolenci, a “comot” 150 euros more money, and the productivity would be slightly higher, and the profits of that company would be the same. Now growth, yes, high growth. With enormous debt, high-growth inflation, which, of course, will lead to higher interest rates, you don't need to be Alenka Bratušek, who has even spent her professional life turning budgets or Mojmir Dark to know that. And these are, these are some things, of course, that you do not see in your blindness, you do not hear, but with all due respect for the light of Bethlehem. On the very day of the Constitution on December 23rd, on that committee, you are in gross violation and you are in violation of the Constitution. At the same time, you're going to sunbathe, and you're going to paint, because some convenience is an event. For all of it, last night, when I was preparing for this extraordinary session today, I was kind of thinking like this. I love Christmas. It's probably the quietest day ever. It's such a peace, it's quiet, it's beautiful. But, dear God, even during the first world war on the Sokka Front, they agreed to have a truce in those days. What do we have? The people in front of Parliament, all the'shakane', because they don't even know that there may be something in the marriage, the police who take us from cars to the National Assembly and back, and it's not Luke Moon's fault, with the new hairstyle, not the bikers' fault, it's not me, you who support this government and this government is responsible for it. The same as this Government is responsible for double the number of people who died with Covid or Covid, given the density of the settlement to the quality of Slovenian public health, as well as the number of people who died with Covid or because of Covid. But 20 months wasn't in your interest, and now you're going to go to the polls for four months. Now that's your excuse. I will conclude with the delegation I mentioned earlier. Shame, shame, shame. So when I listen to all of this today, I remember one very famous album, “They are beautiful as cocoa”, which is inside a chorus “it is little and tomorrow is the day.” [[Incomprehensible]] This government is not saving, but there are also days ahead of us in translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, Mrs Sukič's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u74	Yes, ma'am, because I didn't even know if I was hearing right, I had to make sure I wasn't overreacting. Please request an apology from Member Pogačnik, who stuck in his debate with Member Siter that he was crazy. But I mean, let's have some, at least about minimum standards. Yeah, I checked, like I said, I thought at first I heard it wrong. [[…]] [[…]] So, this really goes beyond all limits, well, those little dignitys, well, I mean, really, let's just get a little restraint there on the right. [[…]] I know you're barely carrying us because we're putting under the magnifying glass all your nonsense and abominations that we're getting serially in these PKP packages, but still, no. So, my procedural proposal would be that this time it would be true, well, on behalf of the ethical code that they like to refer to on the right, to apologize to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u75	Yes, thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I must admit that I myself have heard this comment, Comrade Pogačnik, but I did not want to react because I did not want to disturb my colleague Siter during his debate on the red thread. Not even for such a rude thing as an apology, but the fact that we do not know in the Rules of Procedure of this Institute is that I cannot ask my fellow Member to do so and will not. I suggest, however, if you consider that this is a matter for an ethical code, to initiate the procedures that are defined there. Again, Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u76	Then I ask him to receive his first warning. We only get a reminder if we sneeze from our friend Tank, let alone say someone's crazy. So please remind him, first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u77	Yes, now with regard to the standards of leadership, respected colleague Tank, I have my opinion and will certainly not serve his standards, so also here, given that we are not immediately or that I did not react immediately and now I will not post the festivals to give reminders, but the fact that patience in all the debates tells more about us who are patient than we are about those who are not patient. It is the appeal of all further debaters that we are respectful and patient. If we can proceed with the debate. He's got the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik, he's got a mag behind him. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u78	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Now, in view of this challenge presented by colleague Sukič, it was probably not directly thought that someone here was crazy, but a comment to my colleagues regarding everything that was said by the said Member, the kind of irregularity, the kind of possible misinterpretation of everything that has been said. However, this was definitely not said directly, but in the sense of all this debate. Now, in this PKP 10, when we have it, the government has set the main objective of continuing all these packages, which have been, to mitigate and address the consequences of Covid's infectious diseases in these areas of health and economic and social security. The fact is that this is already the tenth package, and that the Government of Janez Janša has accepted nine packages together in the National Assembly. Now, these nine packages can undoubtedly be said to have been successful and that they have been effective and that all these things envisaged by these measures are measures for people. That these measures have been effective and successful, no doubt numbers speak and they do not lie. Slovenia is one of the countries of the European Union that has recorded the highest economic growth. Slovenia is among the countries of the European Union that record one of the smallest unemployment rates. In Slovenia today, we have unemployment at a historically low level, and I am sure that thanks to these results, both for high economic growth and for low unemployment, there are in particular nine PKP packages here and anti-Korona packages that have enforced measures to curb the expansion of COVID-19 in order to maintain a functioning economy, to preserve jobs, and to take care of those who are the weakest. The red thread of the PKP 10 package continues. This means that the aim of this package is to preserve jobs, to curb the expansion of COVID-19 and to provide for the socially weak. All these matters foreseen by PKP 10 are inwards, solidarity allowances for pensioners to be paid between 300 and 130 euros, solidarity allowance for the most vulnerable groups of 150 euros, veterans of war, disabled persons of war. It will also take care of a single solidarity allowance to improve the social situation of persons at EUR 150. PKP 10 also provides a legal basis for extending the validity of tourist vouchers issued in 2020 to a range of health measures. The measure is also extended for 3 days without a medical certificate. This means a series of measures and again, I would say, there are measures for people here. Now, on the part of the opposition, I would say, probably nervousness, a nervous war, that this government is doing well, that this government is working for people. And, I'd say, that's why anger, lies, and above all, I'd say misunderstanding these measures. Now most of all, I would say what hurts in here was probably the same as in PKP 10, when the opposition said it was mostly those who were the richest. That's a long way from being true. The Income Act stipulates that, I would say, all employees are paid up at the level of one annual salary per year. The opposition, especially the Left, is having a hard time with this, and for that reason, I would say, trying in every way in public to sell the story that this government, I would say, works only for the rich. This is not so true, since the type of measures taken in this PKP 10 also applies mainly to those most vulnerable groups of people. The most ridiculous thing to me, of course, is that the opposition is somehow trying to evaluate the ZUJF and the PKP 10. Look, folks, ZUJF's been taking, and PKP 10's doing it. And I really don't see where you found it, I'd say, a connection to Zuif. Today, on the side of the opposition MPs, both Sieter and Duck, we listened, I would say, to Zuyfu. ZUJF was taking, but he was taking, I'd say, because we know what it was that got rid of Slovenia at the time, I'd say, from a threesome. And also this so-called infamous ZUJF, which was, could have said, after 6 months in force, the then government of Alenka Bratušek immediately withdrew and did not withdraw it, even then the government of Cerar and not the government of Sharčev, because all governments were aware that without Zujf Slovenia would sink. But all PKPs, from 1 to 10, well, I'd say they give people. If other governments have saved banks, financial institutions, this government saves people, saves the economy, saves jobs and saves the economy. And undoubtedly, once again, the forecast of economic growth for Slovenia is optimistic. And that's why, I'd say, this optimism can also be present. I will personally support PKP 10, as we also supported it on the Finance Committee. On the Committee on Finance, I would say, four or five amendments of the opposition concerned, I would say, articles between 63 and 68, which refer to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was, I would also say, raise the most dust. And look, interestingly, no media reported on Thursday that we supported the opposition amendments and that, I would say, articles between 63 and 68 are being deleted, because it's just, I'd say, raised the most dust. See, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance had the same vats when adopting and voting and deciding on all amendments, both opposition and coalition. But that's what I'd say, forget to say, or deliberately overhear. So I am convinced that this CAP 10 is urgently needed, urgently needed to protect the most vulnerable groups of people in the Republic of Slovenia, in order to maintain a functioning economy, to protect jobs and, however, to say that it helps health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Violeta Tomić is preparing for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u80	Thank you very much. It's true what my friend said. Another government had to rescue or rehabilitate Slovenian banks, but it is also right to say why. Because another Yangsh government left a billion-dollar hole in these banks. The 5 billionth hole remained in Slovenian banks following their management. Because they were doing exactly what they were doing today. Friends with, I'll say, not the best past decide on the property of the state. Tax collectors decide who will sit in a supervisory council. So after this government, we can worry that the story of 2008 will repeat itself. So maybe on our side, the nervousness that my colleague was talking about. Yes, you work with the country as if it were yours and only yours. It's not. It's not, and you don't have the right to destroy the average. In fact, we have been dealing with this virus for two years, and at the outset, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health asks why there has not been an epidemic in our country since summer. The hospitals were as busy as they've ever been. Even from abroad you have brought help, which is of course nice, that neighbouring countries want to help us, but then this help, about assistance from Italy specifically, was here only on vacation because you failed to arrange the permits, the papers that would be needed to work and just say goodbye and go back home. A concrete answer, why? Because unless there's an outbreak out there, there's no problem. The biggest criticism of the Prime Minister when he took power in March 2020 is that the then government did not declare the epidemic in time. The situation in this fall is much worse, and you're nothing. We limit people, we burden them without a basis. Because if it is bad, an epidemic should be declared, which is the basis for limiting people. So a very clear answer is why it's not. Did you make a proposal at the Ministry of Health that the government did not take into account? Was there no proposal at all? Now to this particular law, which is in many ways similar to the ZUJF, in many ways. And that's already the 10th ZUJF Third Government of SDS. But most of all, it's similar to him in the way he takes it. Just as arrogant as today you accept the PKP10 you then accepted the ZUJF. Personally, I think that half six in the morning on the Committee on Finance you didn't hear the same arguments don't do that, so don't do that, so, of course, a fully justified comparison to the ZUJF. A lot of what is PKP10 written could itself be regarded as good, positive and probably really necessary. However, as in all laws so far, even in the PKP10, you have returned, as we call them, to the traditional subjugation. And certainly one such plant is paid by doctors. The fact is, with this law, you only pay the most paid. But you can say whatever you want. You didn't write in this law that the worst-paid doctors would have a pay grade. No, no, no. Now you're going to raise these best wages so you can keep your relationships the way they are. With this law, it is a fact that you give the possibility to raise wages only to the best paid doctors what you have in your head, and unfortunately we do not know how the negotiations will take place. I agree, Secretary of State, with everything you've said. Doctors do save lives, doctors do work enormously in these times, they have fought so much on the first line of battle, but do you know in the meantime we also have doctors who have received the salary and the supplement numbered by their own home, but the security guard also has doctors in their ranks, and you will probably also because it will go just through lifting wages. Even to the one who received 81 thousand 750 per year, 81 thousand 750 doctors are also such doctors, that's what you've silenced. Everything you said about doctors, of course, is true and not only are doctors, but other staff have made life efforts to make things happen. I hope you are aware that with this manoeuvre you are undermining the salary system introduced by the other Janša government and over this payroll system has been endlessly proud. This was the greatest achievement of the SDS government in the period 2004-2008, just before the 2008 elections. This was the greatest achievement and now this same government has realized that it has made a mistake and that this pearl is not such a great pearl and must be crushed because it begins, but of course you are not worried that after April 24 you will no longer be in power and that those who will come after you will have to solve all these things, but that is not the way it is done. The government is led by some medium-term and also long-term view not only of what is today and that today is not difficult for me. We have also tabled three amendments to the SAB. One also applies to doctors. If there is a crisis, then the crisis is for all private doctors as well as private doctors, if necessary, and if the Ministry of Health assesses it to help. That was our first amendment. Of course, you rejected all the amendments on the committee. Our other amendment refers to vouchers that we support to extend validity, but if people have not used them for tourism to date they will probably not continue to spend them for holidays because they may not even be able to afford them. Given what is happening is true of high electricity prices, the high prices of oil derivatives were our proposal that these vouchers could also be used by people to pay for this. It is probably completely understandable if you are talking about some energy vouchers, that already those that you have given the vast majority have not yet been used and will not be used by June. The third point concerns an allowance for pensioners. Of course, in explanation of this, I think that article 53 you wrote that because of this apparent situation the weakest pensioners and so on, of course, it is now because in the midst of the energy crisis also the President of the Government has attached, and he said that you are now giving the pensioners energy vouchers. So at first they were socially threatened because the coven left some consequences and that they would be easier to overcome now, but we have already recategorized them into energy vouchers for pensioners and everyone else will or will not. That's the first problem. The second is that in the law that came to the National Assembly you wrote, of course, a scale of classes and pensioners gave allowances of up to €714, and this was actually true for all the PKPs, I think it was three years ago. So the difference between a pensioner who has a pension of 714 euros and someone who has a pension of 714.01 cents is I think 390 euros. One who has €714.01 is less hungry for €390 than one who has 714. That's not how you do it, and it's not going to work. Our proposal was that this last class of EUR 130 should be dedicated to all pensioners over EUR 714. You have now raised it to 732 euros with an amendment, but the same is true, the one with 732.01 cent pension is either as affected or as cold as the one with 732 euros. We are not pretending that you will hear us here, because you have never heard us before today when we were talking about the PKP, but it is only right to say these things. And, of course, at the end of the day, I cannot pass the way of implementing the committee that the opposition or we boycotted in the opposition in a way that we obstructed the committee, which of course was fine for you, because then you thought that for an hour or less we had adopted a bunch of amendments, so important a law without anyone even discussing it. By showing the Slovenian public how you feel about such important content as the PKP. And what the chairman of the committee has allowed himself to say is that he is also in session to interpret the Rules of Procedure, which is, of course, true, but interprets it when the dilemma is. Is A valid or is B valid? Here he himself said that there was no dilemma, and that 75 per cent of the amendments were contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but he would still put them to the vote. This is no interpretation of the Rules of Procedure because there was no dilemma. And you are introducing a very dangerous parliamentary practice, which, of course, when you are in opposition, you will very much oppose, but you will not have a face. Even then, you will be able to sit quietly and quietly if someone else chooses to adopt laws in your own way. Under the cover of the epidemic, you decided to change the country. Yeah, on the right you have political views different from ours on the left. This does not only apply to Slovenia, it applies to the whole world. For you it is important capital and individual, but for us it is important country, society, community, and if in elections you get the majority, it is true that people would want to go your way, but on this side ours should somehow accept it, we would still be warned, but at least we would have the legitimacy of the people, so you do not have it. You don't have it because two parties and all your supporters have spoken in the elections something else they support today, and that's a big problem. And that's why such resistance to people who don't believe you, or the fact that when you say good day, they look no more, not by accident. That's the problem. I hope and I want this to be the last PKP we accept. Of course, I also want the epidemic to come to an end, because this government has solved the epidemic with its own way of doing things. The only option is to resolve one way or another, and then, of course, after April, there will be an infinite number of things that you have already done well to repair, and even in our own party, of course, we will oppose PKP-10.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mag. Mushroom, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u82	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Now, the replica of this comparison, well, the ZUJF and the PKP. I'll point it out again. ZUJF took people. He took it from them because of the crisis that occurred at the time. The PKP-10, however, gives and saves people mainly the active economy, jobs and those of the most vulnerable groups. Once again, the government of Alenka Bratušek, not the government of Mir Cerar, and the government of Marjan Šarc, did not terminate the ZUJF because it was known that the ZUJF was essential for the normal functioning of this country. It is also far from true that there was no debate on Thursday with the PKP-10 on the Committee on Finance. The Minister presented the essential elements of this law and the law was presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Now, Madam Member, given that it is repeatedly repeated that we will only reward the elite, I will repeat it again, as you repeat. It is about opening social dialogue, it is about negotiating with all doctors involved in this social dialogue and not only about elites, but it is also about young doctors and all those in Slovenian medicine. Now, as far as the pay system is concerned, unfortunately the pay system has been on balance since 2008 and will not be disrupted because we will continue to talk to doctors about and open up social dialogue. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, as far as private doctors are concerned, all I can tell you is that, at the invitation of the Minister of Health, 169 private doctors and dentists have been involved in the system of assistance to hospitals in need of assistance, so that even private people have become very involved in this assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have a replica and a procedural proposal. Procedural proposal first, mag. Cousin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u86	I would've [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u87	You have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u88	Procedural proposal to ask the Secretary of State to answer all questions, not just those who answer them. I asked him clearly what it was to declare the epidemic, not even a puddle of it. I think that this is an important question, which, not only we, but also the Slovenian public, must get the answer. We “kos” deal with the virus, we constantly revolve around these measures, but legally nothing is wrong. Slovenia is in normal condition, as always. So, I'd like to get an answer to that question, and then I'll have a replica for my colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u89	Yes, thank you very much. Now, the Secretary of State has heard you. I can only say so much; in the framework of the business arrangements, each representative of the Government is autonomous and assesses when he will answer and what questions he will answer, despite the fact that the representatives of the Government are here to answer questions from Members and Members. But as we say, I don't have some formal legal leverage. So much for that. Now first the replica, Mrs. Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u90	Yes, thank you. A brief replica to the Secretary of State. I went before you answered me, and then I went to look at the video, and I see that we didn't get along very well. Now, in PKP-10 there is no legal provision concerning young doctors, and today we are not talking about social dialogue, but about the new chapter 11 and the new article 40a, where it says that salaries for the paid subgroup e1, for doctors and dentists, where they can be raised, it is said that the ceiling to the 63rd salary class and there are no young doctors listed here and what you will then agree on in the social dialogue is a completely different thing. And the fact is, for young doctors, they don't raise salaries, but only for a particular group of doctors, it's one third of the most paid doctors already. And the law will apply to you, but not to the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Another replica, mag. Alenka Bratušek Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u92	Yeah, because apparently the Secretary of State doesn't know what we're talking about or we're talking and he's talking. I will read their amendment, so much so that it will be clear what this amendment in, which has already been adopted, is talking about. Notwithstanding the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which lists a whole set of official sheets, for the payee subgroup E1, doctors and dentists, in jobs and titles, a maximum of 63 pay grade may be reached for the period until 31 December 2022. That's what it says. Now you're going to be philosophical about what you're going to talk about, but here you're giving higher wages to those who are already in the highest pay grade, that's a fact. What you have in your head, what you have on your desk, what you have in your paper, doesn't say in your explanation that you're going to go to social dialogue and raise wages for everyone. So that's very clear. We can listen to fairy tales, you can promise us, we can trust you, you can also be trusted by young doctors, but the fact is, by accepting this amendment or this law, the wages are raised only for the best paid. And at the end of the day, Secretary of State, since you've already signed up, I very much ask you to answer me in connection with the announcement of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Yes, the Secretary of State wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Now, Mrs Bratusek, I don't know what we're up against right now, if we're going to accept this article and when this article is adopted, we're going to raise our salary. You'll tell me one, the name of one doctor who's been paid by this article. Now, what I'm going to do, what I'm going to decide, what I'm going to say, is, of course, my business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u95	Yes, thank you very much. Just so you know, Mr Secretary of State, you're here to answer to the National Assembly. It is true that you are autonomous in this matter, but if a Member asks you explicitly on several occasions a certain matter, I see no reason why, as a representative of the executive branch of power responsible for the legislative branch of power, because the legislative branch of power has set you up, they would not respond. But as a matter of fact, you're autonomous in your decisions. The replica has a mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u96	Yes, the arrogance has no limit, but that's how it is with this current power. And today, it's very nice for the Secretary of State to show. So maybe I'll ask you one more time or ten more times, you obviously don't have the answer or you don't know. There's only two options. Why isn't an epidemic declared if you think we're at a time when the virus is so rich that we need to act? We are obviously because we accept the CAP, which is against the crisis law. It doesn't work together. But okay, you'll explain it to people and we will, of course, tell them what and how. With regard to doctors, once again, the distinguished secretary of state, if we knew this article and our amendment, we would see that you only raise wages to those who are already in the highest grade, that's in the 57th grade. If we had any desire to save young doctors, as you say, we could do so today, but don’t. But first you will raise your wages to the best-paid, perhaps even to those who have walked, who have not gone to work, and who have received high cassette supplements, and then one day you will take care of other doctors. But what's interesting is that you only do this for 1 year. It looks like some pre-election candy, which, of course, I'll say, the results of your candy will have to be saved by the next government. But yes, we've solved a lot of things and we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Yes, I am, when I listen attentively to the representatives of the Government and the coalition MPs, because I am no longer surprised. Representatives of the Government clearly show the attitude towards this National Bohr, from elected representatives of the people, and indirectly show the attitude towards the people who have overwhelmed us with e-mails and requests not to support these PKP-10s and their protest before the current National Assembly shows that people are completely disoriented, uninformed and frightened because one populism gives birth to another populism, so it must be said that members of the amendments of the opposition have been deleted from the 63rd to 67th Articles, where all repression, compulsory vaccination, prohibition of meetings, exercise of religious freedom and so on. That's what they need to be told and people calmed down, but unfortunately not. Coalition Members behave as if each time I don't know their boss gives them a booklet of instructions, whose untruths need to be repeated to become the truth, and so we listen to some kind of floscules and praises of the government, and the first of them is that which is repeated at every session: “The government is doing well.” That's how these lies repeat themselves, and that's the problem, because no one trusts anyone anymore. In the last 20 years, we have seen what happens to the media, mostly when we watch reality shows of Sanje men, farmers and so on. In short, people have actually lost the possibility of credible information, because this government, which is doing so well, has used this epidemic, which we know has never been declared, so that fishing in mud can be used for tycunization, for media acquisition, to fund their colleges that are close to them and so on. In short, the second bottle is saving lives. On the basis of this footnote, you allow yourself to have unacceptable human rights interventions, to save lives with what? With daily viewing of robotics, police cars, fences around the National Assembly, police vehicles, tear gas, police horses and dogs. Is this how people’s health is resolved? On the other hand, we see what is happening in health care, and the Secretary of State has used quite a few things, and let us leave that he was rude to the National Assembly and the Member of Parliament, but it is unacceptable that in the beginning he was repeated by doctors, doctors are the ones who and who. What about the nurses? What about the medical team? You know, I know a person who's been in the hospital and she said it's okay for volunteers to come, but the nurses are leaving for cash to work in some store that's the only one that's open without any restrictions. The team is the one who, when it comes to putting a person on a ventilator or any kind of inducer, is played and we agree with the view, with the sign and from where they left the nurses, the number of deaths has increased and we should think about it if we really save lives and not. You're saving the elite's interests, and that's scary, you know? This is what will keep us warm and warm our grandchildren who will have to pay for your drink. Right now, you're funding your electoral campaign and giving candy to people, which is unacceptable, and you owe Slovenia more than Yugoslavia was in charge, and you know that it was bigger. Don't wink at anything, and don't give me any comments, because now I'm discussing it. My friend Pogačnik, I heard you said that you measured your colleague Siter for misunderstandings. If you allow me to teach you, there is no misunderstanding in democracy. There's a difference. A different view, which in the SDS, you can have 100 times democracy in the title, you don't understand. And, of course, you're baiting in the PKP. With our taxpayer's money, we'd like to buy a crowd before the elections and, of course, you're counting on the average Slovenian to forget the other person's right if you put a thousand euros in his pocket, and you're gonna put it in his left pocket, and you're gonna take 2,000 out of his right pocket. You know, most people aren't that stupid, and the Constitutional Court has told you a number of times that rulings strongly exceed the powers of the executive branch. And the broad powers you give to different groups are typical of totalitarian systems. And here in this CAP there are a lot of content that is incompatible with neither the Constitution nor the Slovenian legal order, nor with international rules and general democratic norms. Earlier, a fellow Jew spoke of the immorality of this CAP. And I think we also need to think about the immorality of the CAP, which is to help citizens give bribes. You know, it's the same as putting a very hungry man in a sandwich between two scented pieces of bread and a bad salami. And poison him. But then the poisoning is long-lasting, you know. And that's what's immoral. And this government is so immoral that for ten years at least we'll be dealing with at least a partial recovery. The third government of Janez Janša went full. After the first government, the decade was completely burned. The second government of Janez Janša burned down the land. After that double-burned country. For in addition to the disaster of Janša's government, we have received an epidemic, which is not an epidemic, but a wonderful opportunity for enriching individuals, for the immoral enrichment of many. If I continue to trust you with all the lost respirators and sales and lost masks and cryptocurrency and so on. Epidemics are used to increase repression, cadres, media acquisition. What does this have to do with the epidemic? Accreditation of private-friendly colleges, loosening environmental standards, enriching elites with war profits, drug reselling, vaccines, respirators. In short, it's not people who are rich, and you're not saying that you're keeping the lives and normalization of some people who are supposed to survive easier, but they're richer than the medical lobby, the insurance lobby, the building lobby. In short, wild privatisation is happening to us all in public because the public RTV is public RTV, public health public health public health, public education state. And the state says John, and I'm me. You know, when we talk about waiting lines in health, how many people died from cancer, heart disease, and others. Did you ask yourself that? What's the worst, nobody in this country knows, ask the police, ask the security guard, ask the school kids, nobody knows what the rules are. The perfect anarchy of the government, and it is people running away and undermining confidence in everything, not just in the country, in the government, even in the National Assembly, that no one believes that we are all the same because there is a media blockade and people are completely confused. In short, what's going on is that it interferes with workers' rights, trade unions strongly oppose the PKP 10 and you haven't even mentioned or thought about it. Restricted and deprived of rights and freedoms, the Government grants legislative status, which the Government does not, and thus the continuation of the will of the rule of law and the destruction of the foundations of the rule of law, since the Constitutional Court has already told you several times. And why does the government want to rule with decrees? Because there is no majority in Parliament. Otherwise, you have some failed satellite parties that no longer have the same names, which no longer have a parliamentary group where the Government of Anarchy, some support you for fear, others for benefit, very few who believe in what you do. And the nurses in health should first apologize to them, give them decent wages and ask them to come back. That would have saved a lot of lives. And you know, as far as I know, Hippocrates' oath doesn't indicate any condition of aid to patients with higher wages. I don't know where you saw this, but according to my behavior, Hippocrates' oath doesn't go unnoticed. And, of course, you say, the difference to raise their salaries is that these richest in health will be the fault of the budget, said the secretary. Yeah. Two and a half billion minus now. In short, I think that the hole is not only in the budget but also in democratic processes and is very deep and I fear it is irreparable. And the division between humans has never been deeper, and it was created by this government, with its hatreds, to form. It's a fish death by the head. Conflict, conflict is contagious and totalitarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. It's a cakemaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u100	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. One of the three content assemblies, however, colleague Tomić. Now, they said people weren't informed. This is where I agree with you. See, we voted on Thursday on the committee and supported the four amendments tabled by the KUL opposition on matters that raised the highest threshold, that is, the Law on Infectious Diseases. From Articles 63 to 68. No media reported this. You called a press conference right during the committee. Nor did you mention that the coalition supported the deletion of these articles. And perhaps if people knew that, perhaps today the atmosphere in front of the National Assembly could be more likely to be kinder, for the essential part of the element that raised the most dust was lined up, and we supported it. Now, colleague Tomić, you point out that in this PKP, workers' rights are being removed. Can you give me one of the workers' rights, which is deleted in PKP 10 by a worker? Give me one of the workers' rights to be deleted? That's what you mentioned, and please, if you'll just name it for me. What labour law is the 10th line in the PKP? Now, with regard to Comrade Siter, we had a personal conversation earlier, and that comment that was made on my part was definitely not addressed directly to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'd only ask in future replicas if you don't talk to your colleagues and colleagues because they can't answer you. You know that, mag. You asked her to list some rights that are being deleted. My colleague can't answer now, so it's not really a replica. The replica is intended to explain what you were not aware of. So much for an upcoming debate. If we stick to this, it'll be great. Now that I see that interest in the debate is still, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got eight interviewees reported. The first is Mrs Masha Kociper, followed by Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. And a nice greeting to all present. Of course, there is no doubt that there are some good solutions in this law again, some solutions that benefit our people, especially those in distress, but what is good and positive in this law to explain to people is, of course, the task of the government and the coalition Members. So don't expect the opposition of us to praise your marriage. Our role is controlled, our role is to make further suggestions, to comment and so on. And in this respect, my debate will be as well. First of all, it is not for free one famous river that is considered very important in all democratic countries, that is, the process or procedure of the mother of democracy. And in our country as in every normal country, of course, we have the Constitution and the laws and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines how and how laws are adopted. And if we were able to understand at the beginning of the first months of this epidemic when the government came before us with so-called omnibus laws, where several issues are resolved in one law and at the same time, of course, add provisions, delete provisions and so forth individual laws, then after almost 2 years of the epidemic it became in the sense of democracy and the rule of law to me as a lawyer a major problem. I can tell you firsthand what the problems of lawyers, lawyers and everyone else who has to apply such laws, human resources workers, accounting after all, entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs in interpreting such legislation and in applying these laws. In this country, no one knows what else applies, where it applies, where it applies, when it expired, because in this way, with such omnibuses as this PKP 10, you adopt laws and correct a large part of the legislation. Neither does anyone else then know, but this solution is permanent and, knowingly, temporary, then here in the same way that it happened last week, is the amendment. This is a total legal danger, not legal certainty, legal danger. There has been repeated harmful and dangerous practice, to which we have long been reminding in the SAB that in the last minute important substantive laws are preparing amendments that actually change the law completely in one third of the law. There are amendments coming to the table, Members do not have time to examine them, but to discuss them in a qualitative manner. But it's some kind of legal state, but it's some democracy, some transparency of legislation, some situation where people know, what's going on, when does it apply, when, when and when, when? This is really crazy what's going on. And after such a change in one significant part of the law at the last moment, you are surprised that the Members are not yet on the current, what is actually valid and what is not at all. All those people who sent us thousands and thousands of e-mails because one of them is extremely offensive and rude, I agree, but you think they know that you've deleted an important part of the law? But that's not my problem, that's your problem, because you can't communicate and tell them or at first think about what you put into marriage. And then, of course, there are some solutions in such laws that can pose a major problem for this country in the long run. Some of them have already been mentioned. If I mention only these doctors, it is not only a problem that once again one such law, which is supposed to be interventional, breaks the relationship between, wage relations in the public sector, but we still do not have an answer as to what is so interventional in these solutions. My colleague Bratušek, the Secretary of State, cannot answer the most logical question why you do not call or declare an epidemic, as you did at the beginning. The results of these various tests and so on are much, much worse, doctors and hospitals are much more burdensome, the health system is much sooner than collapse, and you do not declare an epidemic because the answer is known because then you should pay certain supplements again, where there is no money now. At the same time, you are solving this same problem by raising already the most paid doctors to 6 grades of salary, otherwise only for one year, so that it is once again one of the election mints, such as an electoral candy for NSI, this additional funding of programs in support of the family, because families really do not know what this moment is in a different position than the family, and with these doctors it is, on the one hand, a candy, on the other hand, it will have long-term consequences because, as it were said, it breaks the salary system and, on the other hand, it brings great dissatisfaction into this, not only among all public servants who feel cheated, because it was not given and, of course, some discontent where we would need some peace and cooperation, it is in the health system. We have nurses and other employees, caregivers and so on, who are working really hard even an epidemic that has earned a raise, and now completely non-systematic, without proper consideration, is raising the pay for those who already have a lot. Whoever last looked at Targeto could see, I think it was already among the 100 most paid, but among the 50 most paid, 46% of the doctors we're talking about today. And I have nothing against them, but what's the logic here? It is true that their basic wages may be lower than those comparable in Austria and Italy, but with all the additions, on duty, readiness, and I don't know what not to mention how many they can do, one can do hard things, I see that even after 20 hours a day, every honor, they are already among the 50., 46 most paid. Three times that much pay is paid by some, like the Prime Minister of the Government, who also works a lot in the epidemic, and I'm not the lawyer here, Janez Janša. So you re-enter one broken imbalance, the ill will to collectives in hospitals and health institutions and completely non-systematic and without any order and logic, and contrary to the rule of democracy, the rule of law is also the transparency of legislation, including legal certainty, which interferes with our legal system. Of course, we will not support the SAB law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the word, get ready for the mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Now, you probably haven't read this document that we have before us today, some because you're talking about some ZUJF. Where did you hear that? Where does that say? ZUJF. Act on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of Covid-19 consequences. This is what we are talking about, this is the document we are talking about today. Not about the ZUJF. Now, what's hurting you? You are in pain because you are not in authority, you have shown this immediately, with the first debate that I have listened to and you are in pain that this Government will again, and of course we, Members who need to confirm this, will help pensioners, disabled people, farmers, vulnerable groups and so on. You are in pain, you do not like it, and of course you do not want to participate, which is one of the rare oppositions in Europe or even in the world, which during the epidemic does not want to participate in helping people and the economy or in helping this government. You don't want to participate, you're not constructive, you like to fight a little bit, you share and you help with imaginary affairs that happen on TV, and then you put people in public, and of course, you share people, you fight people with each other, you make hate, and so on. That's your goal. To get the government by decrees – look at other countries, and look at Sweden all the others you have so sung – what powers have the parliaments given to governments so that they can manage the epidemic as efficiently and reliably as possible, it is essential and there is no problem here. Now cool didn't want to discuss the opposition cool or coalition or whatever the undemocratic opposition is, whatever you call yourself, you didn't want to participate constructively, calmly, professionally in the Committee on Finance's debate, but you ruined, annoyed Members, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance to the end, which, of course, was to provoke him to this limit, to then leave the Committee on Finance and, in the meantime, have been waiting for you cameras and have already been one down in your headlights and explained how everything is wrong. When you explain to people that it is the ZUJF not that it is an anti-korona package to help people and economies, but that the ZUJF is and when you have explained to people and, of course, also these e-mails that we Members received thousands of times a day on e-mail are most e-mails somehow, if I withdraw this, it is said that this PKP law contains mandatory vaccination. This is what we've been listening to, I've been reading it almost every e-mail and it's a dictatorship and so on all about it, because in the opposition you also talk cool and it was also these e-mails to people of some people of the same and same majority from a couple of computers that came this way. But according to you, this people, I don't know what they're all about. The people, as I said before, do not like the discussions we hear here, and also not supporting pensioners, disabled people, farmers, vulnerable groups, that you do not support the assistance of tourism, in the economy, with vouchers, and so on, that we have taken care of nurses, the nursing staff now you do not support it for doctors. All right, if you don't support it, say it out loud and clearly, not yes, but, yeah, get out of it. But you don't support it, and you won't support it. You mention a lot about health care, how they were nurses leaving the country, running abroad, and so on. Of course, you left widespread health care both human and financially malnourished, you basically destroyed public health almost as much as the police and the military and, of course, normal nurses, and also some doctors went after better bread because you got them all to hell. Now this government is fixing it, this government is doing more than good not only well, but great and of course it bothers you. If this government did not do well, you would clap and jump to the ceilings with joy, and so you are in squalor, and now this health care is being repaired, and nurses, the nursing staff will stay in Slovenia in our institutions and take care of our patients, for our elderly. I don't see any problems here for the front and even when you keep repeating this April 24 date, when you have somehow in mind through the election and I'm afraid you're going to fail again. Already, if we just look at these polls, although you see that some of the parties are almost oblivious to the fact that you are now in Parliament, and now I fear that this jump on April 24th will not succeed at all if you discuss so unconstructively and hostilely at the meetings and provoke the presidents and presidents of committees and committees that, then, in the National Assembly, you will not normally work in such a way that I fear that if you do not slightly correct this relationship, people will, therefore, be the people except for your people's assembly of the handfuls that you have inside your armies will not support you. So that this law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and elimination of the effects of covida-19 will, of course, be pleased to support. And I believe people will be happy too. And that help with the vouchers that remain. You know how the question of whether these vouchers will stay or not or whether pensioners will receive these supplements, which, of course, can also be intended for this so-called. The energy crisis that you've been pushing so hard, and it's nowhere, and it's going to help the pensioners, for those vulnerable groups, to come through easier. These aids have been done by now. Assistance or stimulation for the birth of children also remains and will remain. And people are, of course, grateful, satisfied and expecting these things to be accepted, to get them to be extended, so that people can still take advantage of them. This is also for their health and well-being. In all this crown of crisis, we know that things aren't cute. And it's also helping the economy, tourism, tourist agencies and so on. So that all of us here in the National Assembly should unanimously support and help people and the economy. So that I hope that, despite the fact that you are only discussing now, you have only courageously begun to discuss these good things, which you can see that, unlike the fact that you have broken up on the Committee on Finance, you have been rude to the President and then even left the meeting. So that I believe that you are only somehow attracted by this PKP and that you will eventually, if you want to help with us, with the coalition, with the government, help people, help people, help the Slovenian people in this most difficult health crisis to finally support them. I almost don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u106	I'm not going to replicate any nonsense, but there's something I have to say to Mr. Dobler. Just as the guidance is that a couple of flossules are repeating themselves to become truth, so your God John tweeted that all these letters, which came to our addresses and were completely put to sleep by our mailbox, came from two computers. However, it must be said that KUL does not have one basement on Trstenjak where it could pay for various Twitters, false profiles, Kopriva and other vegetables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Look, I suggest you use replicas, not accusations, not accusations, not insults. Similarly, I expect the debate to continue. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Indeed, we are concerned about everything that is going on in the party of the SAB and also in the democratic opposition. Concerned about the debt of €10 billion over the last two years and the impact of the covid epidemic was only 5 billion. And despite the fact that the epidemic today, at a time when it is said that hospitals are on the verge of capacity, has not been declared. And of course, we are concerned about how the government works because it simply takes measures and communicates them in a way that separates people. And what's the most effective way to separate people is to give them different wages. And this, of course, is a very, very serious contradiction between people and within the empire. And to say that we have the means to do so, i.e. in a budget where there is no money that is secured by borrowing, of course in one way this opens Pandora's box. We were, of course, constructive in the SAB. We have supported certain measures, in this sense we do not feel that they are bad. We warn, however, that it is necessary, for example, to enable the use of vouchers, to also enable them to be paid for energy bills, for heating. I cannot agree with the argument that we do not have energy poverty. The kilowatt gas price rose from 3.5 cents to 7 cents. This means an increase of 100%. More than 10 thousand customers have lost their electricity supplier, which will increase their electricity by 400% in the absence of a timely change in supplier. And these are the things to be addressed. We have been constructive in the SAB, we have proposed that unused vouchers can also be used to pay for heating and energy costs. This year's figure is approximately 50% unexploited. Last year's also about 10, 20%. And of course people who didn't spend it on tourism, to visit restaurants, didn't spend it because they didn't know it was cool to eat or go on vacation, but because it's too expensive for them and they have other problems. In this respect, we have been constructive in the SAB, we have made comments, including as regards the annual additions and the dradnian additions. Unfortunately, the coalition didn't support them. So she didn't support and she didn't want to understand. In the SAB, of course, we will not support such a package, so we will not support the marriage package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, the main purpose of this PKP10 measure or law is to maintain a well-functioning economy, to maintain jobs and also to help those most vulnerable groups, which is pensioners with very low pensions and also disabled persons. But of course, as some of you have already said, in the last 14 days we have received over, I don't know, 5,000, 6,000 e-mails. And even in the last day over a thousand more. So I'm really worried and sad that people didn't get the information that in, so on Friday on the Finance Committee or on Thursday on the Finance Committee, that these members of which people wrote to us not to support the PKP10, that these articles had actually been deleted, that they were also invested by the opposition, but that the coalition supported them, regardless of the opposition's obstruction of that committee and they were deleted. So I really don't know why there are an extra thousand e-mails and also people who are now standing before Parliament, I'm afraid they don't even know why they're standing and that these controversial articles have been withdrawn for them. They also wrote us, as we were told, about compulsory vaccination. I would say that if compulsory vaccination were meant then these damages in this law would not have to be imposed on me, because then the compensation for any consequences after vaccination would have been established in another legislation. In fact, this is evidence that there is no mandatory vaccination. But it's actually a question of if our citizens actually wrote it, because I didn't know anyone out of these 6,000, but it was some copies of the same emails, so unfortunately the question of what this action was. So these articles were deleted. There will be no mandatory vaccination, otherwise no compensation should be provided in this law. Of course, after what it will extend, the possibility will be to extend these bonuses, as was said, the possibility of extending the period for the use of annual leave, after I have said, to pensioners with very low pensions, i.e. to the maximum level of the minimum wage will be granted in three different categories of solidarity allowance and also to the unemployed. Here I would like to point out that when I read the law, I also found that one group of people with disabilities is disabled under the Employment Rehabilitation Act, that they are out of our hands. And when I pointed out that, of course, there was an immediate positive response from the entire coalition and also the Ministry of Labour, Mr Uršič drafted the amendment, so today this amendment is also ready. And I believe that it will also be accepted that then all the disabled will really be involved. They are unemployed persons who have been given a decision on unemployment, so they can no longer be employed, i.e. under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. This is an amendment to Article 55. There are also, of course, allowances for members of the security, rescue, assistance, including student and student allowance, daily, €25 for those who assist in the care of patients in health and welfare institutions. Yes, even the infant supplement is extended and so is the case. Before that, it was a question of what they're up to now. There are still no visits to maternity wards. Dad can be with her in childbirth, and then two or four days, as long as she's in the hospital with the baby, she has to wait at home and there are no visits. It is therefore appropriate that this additive should also continue to be extended. Now, of course, everyone on one side, so I'm going to touch the doctors. In the coalition it was agreed, yes, to prepare an amendment to help raise the salaries of young doctors. That was the deal. And that it will also be a temporary measure. Now, the same content really doesn't show that it's helping young doctors. However, it has been explained to us that there is no legal category of young doctors and that there is no possibility of such writing. But as a Member herself, we probably all got a lot of questions today, too, yesterday, where everyone is afraid that it will be about raising salaries for employees, that is, older doctors who are already in the highest paid grade of 57. Here I would really like the State Secretary's response from the Ministry of Health, i.e. confirmation, whether this does not mean that those doctors who are already in the highest pay grade of 57 will be automatically paid up. I understand, too, that I have read the statement made by Minister Poklukar, that is to say that it goes with this raise of ceilings, that is, this pay grade, to allow doctors and dentists to actually barely have negotiating points to raise wages. And of course, if we want to raise young people, then we probably can't do just some levelling, it's probably also a broader range, but I wouldn't want to guess here on my own, so I would like an answer to the Secretary of State, or that's true, because our purpose, therefore the amendment of the coalition, was precisely because it was helping young doctors, because, as we all know, so the agreement to raise the salaries of the health staff, the nurses, the nurses graduated nurses were fortunately already realized and it has happened in practice that the nurses who graduated then paid the young doctors. And so it was intended to help these young doctors. So here I would really like, as this article shows, that young doctors are now critical. But it is certain that there was a lot of controversy before, why the epidemic did not occur, on the other hand, it was obvious to us that we gave too much money for these various supplements, but I hope that we are all aware that the supplements that we gave to those who work specifically with Covid patients were not at all as high as the supplements that were already in force for years and years and were set out in the collective agreement that they negotiated years ago, which really automatically raises the supplements that they give then [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to all public servants. But I am convinced that now only those who work with Covid need the supplements, and this is the health care staff, that is, such caregivers as doctors. It is therefore right to help these categories of people, not just the average. With regard to the medium-term goal, it was said by the opposition that we do not worry about what will happen in the future. Yeah, don't worry. And today, when I had the opportunity to talk to the candidate for [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia also confirmed that the government's actions so far are correct, fast and effective and therefore that the resolution of this crisis is correct, while, of course, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by Secretary of State of Cugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u112	Thank you very much. By adopting this Article, we have not yet raised any wages. Social dialogue with the representatives of doctors and dentists' unions and the members of these unions are also young doctors and are always and everywhere, and they will also, of course, receive these negotiations. And, of course, only after the negotiations will we be able to tell who the pay has gone up and who has not been paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u114	Yeah. I am pleased that at least the Secretary of State has returned from the Ministry of Health to the Hall, because Mr Shirtzlj has been gone for several hours and has not been following at all, and he does not really care what is actually happening in this Chamber. Today I listened by the coalition to a series of amazing things like the times of the crisis, during the outbreak Pa my dears, where the epidemic was declared. [[…]] What kind of crisis? There's nothing in this country because that's what you find when you don't actually declare this epidemic. Of course, you don't say out loud why the epidemic isn't declared. Because you know that you will then be able to start paying to all those people who, under the Constitution, because it is an economic initiative, should not be limited, you are, of course, limiting it at the time of the epidemic and with crisis measures and it is necessary to pay the compensation. And that's what the government of Janez Janša was keenly aware of, and that's why she made a dot here and she made a difference, we're only going to help some, say, with the tourism vouchers, etc., because this government is insanely connected to tourism, clearly in what way, and it's forced from the very beginning to the complete so-called crisis, as you call it on this page, to all others, there's no way in the small economy of espouses, we don't have anything to talk about anymore. Moreover, what they were given is now well received, because I received a bunch of messages and also the recent decisions from the FURS, how well all the funds should be returned because they either missed one day, either for one euro or even what was most desperate, they had no resources at all, and because they did not have the resources, they would not get the money back, they had to pay back the money that they had received from that country because of their inability to work, because this government boasted about helping entrepreneurs, not the small economy, including the Minister of Economy, the first one on the forehead, who was constantly shouting at all over how this government was helping. Now, this PKP 10 is, of course, kind because, in fact, I have to say, I will start, the President of the Government keeps repeating the same thing over and over again. In as many laws as this government had passed during its reign, no government had adopted before. You know, even no government has previously submitted as many omnibuses as this Government and it is very easy to reach numbers and, of course, the damage it does by making our legislative system and legal transparency so complicated that the Law-Laundering Service finds that, in fact, this law also brings about legal disorder and disorder again, as some people like to repeat. In addition, of course, you are introducing some provisions, where, of course, I will be pleased with the Secretary of State's reply, I hope that he will not be as rude to me as he was to our fellow Member who said that he would not answer her, because he will answer what he wants. That's right. I agree with you, Secretary of State. But your job is, your job is to talk to Members at the time of the adoption of the legislation about questions that may or may not be of interest to you. Why? Because it also depends on how many votes this law will receive or whether it will receive some support. And finally, that's your job, that's what you're paid for. I don't know how you don't understand this, but this is your primary task – to answer the legislative branches of power is the task of executive power. But okay, we're getting used to it. The Prime Minister, through his chief of staff, gave instructions on how to do short answers, how to make some kind of novelty, how Members should demand through information of a public nature and such nonsense. And now I see that this has been passed on to ministers and secretaries of state, so they can say that they will just answer what they want. What kind of questions would you like to ask? You have now answered our colleague, who was interested in letting her know if these salaries are really going to rise because, in short, I am not repeating her question. And you said no. You replied, so that people would understand, you replied that this would be achieved first through social dialogue, and then we will see how and what will be paid to doctors. Now you answer my question: why do we need this in the PKP10 if no one gets up? Why? You're gonna settle this with social dialogue, right? Then why are you pushing this into this PKP10? What's the point of law-abiding, which is not even going to apply, but we're going to wait for some kind of social agreement? Well, Secretary of State, you know, I'm not crazy. It's clear to me what you're doing. And I'm going to give you a hypothetical answer because you're very fond of developing theories here. Mr Kuštrin has agreed that the highest physicians should at least be given, and I will say that we are now providing temporary assistance. Because, by the way, everything that's temporary in this country is very permanent. Fear temporary, because it becomes permanent, everything is permanent. And he's got higher wages for doctors who already have the highest pay grade. Then we will talk in a social agreement, where we will see whether we will change this part or not, and of course there will be a time to see what will be confirmed and what will not be confirmed. And who's going to be there? Yeah, these young doctors. Because they don't even reach these classes and they won't be able to make any progress. They don't reach the 57th grade. Not even the basic conditions that all those who receive higher wages under this Article have. Why is it temporary? Because Kuštrin knows how to negotiate. And Kuštrin knows when he gets to Target, you know what he says? “The National Assembly has accepted this, we have nothing to do with it.” And that's what I've been repeating for years, my dear. The same government will say, the National Assembly has accepted it. And I already see you in the next term, how you're going to scream from the side when you say, look, we're helping, look, now they're tearing it down and destroying it. I wonder what will happen to this temporaryity of this article. Which, by the way, is the Secretary of State, let me explain, help me, to me, because I'm ignorant and I have no idea about these things, let me explain what this means. 40.a. that I do not give you complete legislation and all the decrees, and says: "it is for the payee subgroup E-1 – doctors and dentists in the workplace and in the titles can reach a maximum of 63 pay grade for the period until 31 December 2022". and then we have a 40.b Article, the Health Activity Act, which of course also regulates other matters. Yeah, then who does that not apply to, as you say? Then why is that even necessary? Give me one argument and I'll take your word for it and I'll even apologize publicly to you for telling you that I don't believe what you're saying. Then explain to me why it is necessary to write this in the PKP10. This government is able to change only one article of the law in 48 hours, once it has been agreed, and this has proved several times. There you have a chairman, who will explain to you in the coalition how to do it like this, pok, pok, pok, just invest, and the matter is resolved in 48 hours with all the debates and I don't need any very special agreement. Why do you have to put this in PKP-10, why? Today, by the way, Mr Šircelj said one famous sentence, which will be heard in the public for a long time. We rule by decrees because it is an epidemic and we must act quickly, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly told you that you are in violation of the Constitution and legislation and has made it clear to you that when the epidemic began, when the disease was unknown, we did not know how we would be prepared, how we would act. The whole world has been dealing with questions about what to do in order to take good action is after two years of this virus in Slovenia to say that you save lives you know what the elementary school doesn't believe you anymore, even the elementary school kids don't believe what you're doing and why you're going. Epidemics and proclamations will now be a little more precise than my colleagues and colleagues who speak the following when you first declared the epidemic – that was 12. 3. – the proportion of confirmed infections was 4.8% or 61 people were infected on 26 March 2020 and the epidemic was declared. Now that we have 4 000 518 infected or otherwise we have 34% infection on 3 November 2021 and no one in this government is interested. No, you are concerned or the best paid doctor will get even more and this temporarily for one year, which you can't explain why and you can't even explain why for one year. Do you think this doctor will get a fee one year after the 63rd grade, and then in a year when it doesn't work out, he'll say great, thank you very much for one year, I'm going back to the 57th grade? It's a purely insane, puzzled with every logic. What's more, one other thing that's more important. You break the complete system, the pay system within the group and, of course, in relation to everyone else. Let me explain to the expert with the 7th degree of doctoral education in the field of health is not a doctor can not achieve this and work for the benefit of the healthcare system as the doctor does. I know about a couple of doctors who have been cracking, not to say where during co-vid's time, and you know that they're not all the same, and you know that they're not all the same quality. The only thing they have, they have the same college completed and the same diploma, and this is where it ends, and then there are terrible differences between them. We have doctors who have cheated the system, and trains have gone on now, and they will be rewarded, but you do not care, because of this, a smaller group of people who are frauds should be neglected, so that we can solve the problem that Mr Kuštrin has been fighting for a long time. That's your primary objective. Sad, sad. I can't wait till April 24 for me, but for this government. Whether I am in this House or not, I will not be happy that we no longer have these governments. Today, one of the MPs said the opposition was nervous. No opposition is nervous, but it is extremely concerned about where this leads, because it has nothing to do with any democracy and what has been happening on the board of this usurpation, this incredible shamelessness on the Health Committee, which some people today report to us that the opposition has used an instrument that is usually the last, which is that it will not participate in these works, seems to me extremely attracted to the hair. It's true, isn't it? In fact, he said the president on the board had the same vats for everyone. Yeah, sorry, I think they have to be the same vats all the time, but not once like that, once again, for the third time again just a little different. It just doesn't work. And with this, of course, you've essentially accumulated a serious problem, because I already see the next term when this coalition will no longer be in the coalition, how it will be, get these magnetograms, get them out, because some will quote them when they tell you what you were actually doing, and so one of your colleagues said that this session was legendary and will go to anals, especially as a school case, what it's not doing. One of the things that is in this PKP is, among other things, this article, the landmark that speaks of you being a health cashier, but you insist that it will cover all of these, I will say, the expenditure of the measures imposed by this PKP-10. By not telling you how many there are, don't tell me or what basis there will be for this and who will pay them; will it be the budget, or will it be the health treasury, or will it be someone else we don't know about in this country? Or, in other words, you've opened the roof as it will, and so it will be. It's totally illegal and totally irrational, it's irrational. It's even, I can't even explain what you're doing in this health department anymore. [[…]] That's what they used to do sometimes, on the "assesses" [[?]] In previous systems, when these bags were bottomless. It is surprising, however, that some Members who today have advocated sustainability in the field of public finances and prudence and transparency allow this today with ease. It was interesting to listen to the successes and achievements of Slovenia, now at the national celebration, but this law will not bring a lot of these surpluses, in fact it will bring a lot of damage that will have to be corrected. It is a fact, however, that this PKP-10 is a gift for many, whom this Government is counting on to surround in the April 24 elections, for these coalition parties, or especially for one, because the others are anyway, they are lost in this kangaroo, that of course it will be an electoral PKP-10 that will allow some votes and you, thinking that you will remain in these places. I hope you know this isn't gonna happen, right? Be realistic, and from the point of view of the profession you're defending, one day you'll be able to come back to your profession. You know, it's like that river, don't walk around people when you go up the hill, because you'll be able to come down this hill once and you'll meet all these people, including your own mistakes. I wonder what kind of face you'll have then.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u115	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word, mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to tell the honourable Member that I have been misrepresented, I have not spoken here about the decrees, I have spoken only of the PKP laws that are adopted in the State Assembly by emergency procedures and are also submitted to the National Assembly by emergency procedures, because of the epidemic, because it is necessary to react quickly. I've denied it once and for all, and it looks like I have to be here repeatedly, talking about the decrees, I've been talking about the PKP laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants the word, mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u118	Yes, thank you very much. Dear Member, I did not say that wages would not rise. I have said that this article will open up a social dialogue. And then we'll see if the wages rise or not. And that's what I said. But I didn't say that wages wouldn't go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next person who gets the word is Jure Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u120	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Honourable High Council, Minister of Finance and other representatives and representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. High economic growth, maintenance of more than 300,000 jobs and consequently low unemployment rates, high stable credit ratings, these are the consequences, and these are the results of accepted, also adopted against crowns of packages at government level and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we have before us the 10th anti-korona package, which will continue to mitigate the effects of the coronary crisis, by preventing and mitigating the pressures caused by this global health crisis, which will allow Slovenian society to operate as best as possible, to make the Slovenian health system more resilient and that the Slovenian economy will recover faster and better. Despite the difficult situation, despite the crisis in which we are, this government has also done a great deal in other areas, investing in, besides health, the educational system, in infrastructure. And the fact is that today the biggest risk remains the management of the crisis. And that is why we also have on the table the 10th anti-korona package, which works in the direction of mitigating the consequences and taking measures that help at the level of health, at the level of education, at the level of the economy, that society works, that society is more resilient and that, of course, the recovery that I am sure will follow and, of course, is already happening will be as great as possible, and that, of course, we will return to that development guide, the progress of our country. And after almost 2 years of facing the crisis, the health crisis today you can no longer go to KUL, you can no longer blind yourself. We simply answer the question or answer the question of how many anti-korona packages, how many measures to mitigate the Covid-19 outbreak, you supported the coronary conflicts. A simple question and a simple answer, which very clearly and visually indicates who also speaks and promises in this National Assembly and who, when it is necessary to do something, actually fulfills it. Some of these are also written in your programs, new programs, but you, when you need to take a step forward and support solutions that help the Slovenian economy and the population, are against or do not vote. The 10th anti-Korona package brings many solutions. Allow me to make some specific points below. For the third time since the epidemic or the crown crisis, the most vulnerable pensioners and pensioners, i.e. more than 300,000, have received the so-called solidarity allowance of 300 euros, 230 euros and 130 euros, at 3 intervals, up to 523 euros, will receive an allowance of 300 euros, then from 523 euros and one cents to 628 euros of 230 euros and at the last interval of up to 732 euros of a monthly pension of 130 euros. The 10th anti-korona package also includes an allowance for particularly vulnerable groups of €150. This category includes war veterans, disabled persons and disabled persons. The supplement will also be given to members of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance Force, who are involved in voluntary and non-professional activities or to assist in the care of patients in health or welfare institutions. Thus, it is divided into members of the security, rescue and rescue forces, where they will receive 30 euros a day, and students and students, who also help to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic, after 25 euros a day. The package also contains a single solidarity allowance to improve the social situation of persons over 25 years of age who have not received an allowance as pensioners and as well as carriers or farm members. This is a 150-euro supplement. This law also provides assistance for the purchase of antigenous rapid tests on Covid-19 virus for self-testing. It is also important that the so-called lost income for the duration of quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour due to force majeure, for example due to the obligation to protect the child, EUR 250 for 10 days and EUR 500 for 20 days or up to 750 per month. Family support programmes are also financed, which is very important. In particular, the family support programme, which was selected on the basis of a call for proposals, will provide them with additional funds for costs and indirect costs of 10% of the value of the programme, as stated, in support of the family. This law also provides a legal basis for the extension of tourist vouchers, those issued in 2020. In the field of education, distance education measures are laid down, while this law also allows for fixed-term employment due to the urgent working needs of education and education, i.e. during the control of Covid-19. With regard to health care, he would point out among a number of measures as regards the deployment of personnel themselves, the exemption of the tax on additional value for the supply of protective and medical equipment and, of course, also from the point of view of the unloading of health personnel, that it is possible to extend the measure by 3 days of the hospital without a medical certificate. One of the measures I will also highlight at this point is certainly a new measure of the liquidity loan of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which I believe will help many in their activities and in maintaining jobs and doing business itself. And all I've just said is, you're some of the people who represent themselves as KUL parties against. You were against it or you didn't support the past nine antikron packages and you're against it today. Even more, today and in the past, we have been able to hear that these are measures that are a waste of money away, so that the money that is being spent to recover the economy is to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on investments to help health, the education system that this is a waste of money away. This is just a legitimate decision, but it is right that after all this time we will not change who is behind and who is against them, regardless of whether you are against it for a substantive reason, even though I believe that you are more against it for the reason that it is necessary to overthrow the current government. Before I conclude my debate, however, I would like to touch another event, about two hours ago, it happened in this Chamber of the National Assembly, in a way that I welcome, in a way, that the criteria for the debate are clearly raised today in the Party of the Left. And I am sure that a fellow Member, Natasa Sukič, will be the next time her party colleagues and colleagues measure Members and Members with Nazis, fascists, criminals will strike at the table, of course symbolically, and her client colleagues and colleagues will explain that it is inappropriate that this is a violation of the ethical code of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that such conduct does not belong to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome her to do so. For at least that was the ability to discern from her intervention about two bad hours ago. However, I am afraid that, just as we have practiced this many times, in fact, there are almost always words on the one hand that do not reflect what has been said or promised. So today's dilemma can't be what it is. We have the 10th antikron package ahead of us. Support for this package is support for mitigating the consequences of the crown epidemic in the future. It is to help pensioners and pensioners, Slovenian farmers, disabled people, socially weak families, Slovenian families, those who need help in these times of crisis, need State intervention. And I will personally vote in favour. Just as I supported the previous nine antikron packages, I will also support the tenth. And I am sure that this measure, like the rest, will help Slovenia in the year that continues to come between the leading Member States of the European Union after economic growth, after low unemployment, and that, as a country that has successfully concluded or will now conclude the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we will continue to have an example and example of how concrete measures can help people, help the economy and, of course, have some balance between, of course, dealing with the epidemic, which is a priority number one, while, of course, taking parallel care of the investments that have been made in the past 10 years by KUL parties to the government, or at least some, there have been no, and that, despite facing the great crisis, there is also much to do in the field of investment in health, education, infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukič, you want a procedural, replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u122	Yeah, it's procedural, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u123	Replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u124	I can't give a replica if I haven't discussed it yet, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u125	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u126	Yeah, procedurally, not if you can remind a possible Member who obviously wants to talk to me, has just run me out of the hole right now, so that his little interlocutors, who are basically stranger to a topic that has nothing to do with the subject, do not abuse me and my name in this debate for their incredible findings and insinuations, what I will and will not do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u127	Thank you very much. See, for all interventions, including your previous procedural proposal, take into account the criteria set out in the Rules of Procedure. And the same vats. So much so that it's not just about the bills that don't contribute to anything. The culture of dialogue in the National Assembly needs to be raised. As the last one gets a word in this circle of mags. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. I'd start a little more emotionally maybe. Nevertheless, I must stress this. So we recently celebrated one of the biggest holidays of this country, i.e. the day of independence and unity, and I was really very sorry when I congratulated our citizens and citizens on the answers that we have to celebrate, and this is not what we fought for and so on. This is the response of people to this simple arbitrary, unconstitutional, illegal rule. Why do I object? I'm going to be against a substantive, respected colleague, of course, against a substantive one. It is not enough that you have adopted on the committee the opposition amendments that have deleted the most acute articles of this law. It is necessary to follow the law, to follow the rule of law, to follow the principles of the rule of law, that is, legal certainty, to talk about legal predictability, and to read to you further certain passages of the Constitutional Court rulings that speak about it. The key problem with this past year and a half is that you are creating absolute and total chaos on the right, as has been heard many times today. It seems that this chaos is essentially some kind of cover-up. So now we don't know how many times we've experienced that we've tried the controversial articles of the Infectious Diseases Act, when you didn't get through the Illuminated Diseases Act, then you actually broke it, now you've somehow tried through the PKP10, which has some good solutions. But now we're used to it. You give some good solutions while at the same time hiding various extremely dangerous provisions in the legislation, from the police powers that we have witnessed and so on. You wanted to legitimize the ruling, although it's funny to me, because you do it all the time. Even if we add a legal basis to it now, we would actually self-legalise the situation that has already been said and as one minister of the current government has already said, he will, I quote, continue to rule with decisions, that is, that these articles have been withdrawn, because in practice nothing has changed. You will still be under the cover of saving life and health simply taking illegal decisions. I would like to continue by quoting something that was said to be 8. 5. 2017. For thousands of years since the birth of modern civilization, it has been known to hold the next talks. There are more rules, less freedom for citizens. There's more rules. There's more red tape. There's more rules. There's more corruption. There are more rules, less legal security for citizens. And I very much agree with this statement by the Prime Minister of the Government four years ago. I agree. But there is no way to resolve this, that instead of simplifying some kind of legal order or, as has been said, for each new legal regulation, the two are annulled, the law with which the infringement is adopted, complemented, repealed, 21 sectoral laws, is adopted by emergency procedure, which is, of course, absolutely unacceptable in view of the fact that for the first time in this law we have heard from the media somehow lags away, somehow, in June we have started to talk about the need for a new intervention law to help the economy, tourism, social groups. And now, just before the end of the year, we're in a very sad, tragic situation where instead of people celebrating some holiday of peace, solidarity, love, everyone kind of electrocuted, they're writing to us, and they're not writing like a colleague wanted to say before, she was going to say it's a generated message and I probably don't know what. Don't underestimate people. I'm really begging you, you don't underestimate people. People are very, very much, they follow, they read, it's about their lives, their daily lives. They wanted to show solidarity. I must say that no one in here can say that there was no extraordinary solidarity when this epidemic first started. A colleague also said that we had never accepted the CAP. I think that at least some of us have given our consent; on the other hand, we have abstained many times. How many of you have accepted our proposal? Co-operation doesn't mean you tell us what to do. Cooperation and trust are bilateral. Bilateral. You say it, we say it. The public says so. That's not the way to make a law like that. That's the kind of law you put in public. You knew very well how sensitive the articles were about the law on infectious diseases and you had to bring the atmosphere to an aboriginal state. A colleague said why no media reported the deletion. Why did you even put that in there? Why? You want to help the economy, propose a law to help the economy. You want health care, propose a health bill, not one year, in two years, over a thousand 400 sub-laws. Forgive me, debirocraticism, simplification of the legal system is not that you will adopt fewer laws and much more than legal regulations, because this is contrary to the principle of legality, as my colleague earlier said, Dr. Trček, as he said, more said. [[Incomprehensible]] You regulate matter by law, by law you can only specify matter in more detail. The Constitutional Court has told you this several times in the past year, and it's always the same thing, and it's normal for you to feel sad that you feel without hope at a better tomorrow, because that's how I feel at the end of this year when people are talking to us about what else we can do. Yeah, it could be a referendum. No, because a decision will be taken to prohibit the referendum on this law, which is essential for its immediate application. Why? Why deepen this mistrust? All these small steps led to the fact that today people are in front of the National Assembly, that we received over 7,000 e - mails. And I was happy with them myself. After all, it is also a form of direct democracy. There's still people in our country. Still. The National Assembly still has its powers. We can't agree to this derogation that's happening. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly told you how it is necessary to act that it is not permissible to rule and regulate matter with decrees, but you do it vehemently further, no one, and it happens from week to week, you determine the social relationship from week to week, and then you wonder if on the other hand the absolute mistrust of the government is up to these moves. Yes, if you hadn't come up with articles like this in the PKP, which you probably wouldn't have come up with, and you knew it would have been a response like that, because it hasn't been done since yesterday, it's been going on for months now, it's been happening for months now. The ZPS has been giving you our legal opinion for so long, and you say we can't be substantively against it. Of course we're substantively against it. The principle of adapting law to social conditions is not the only principle arising from the rule of law when you refer to the principle of adapting law to social conditions. This is one of the key principles on which you have supported every CAP. So this social situation that dictates this is, of course, the Covid-19 epidemic, although we have heard several times today that this epidemic has not been declared, despite the fact that the numbers show that it should be proclaimed and that we are in fact witnessing that human rights are being restricted and that freedom is not, in fact, a legitimate basis, but that the principle of adapting law to social conditions is competing with another principle, and that is the principle of legal security and predictability. So one of the key principles is that law must be stable, that each individual must know what is expected of him, what is expected of an individual article. I would also like to quote here a decision by the Constitutional Court, which says very nicely what it means when these two principles compete. Thus, the rule of law must respect the principle of trust in the law, legal security and other principles of the rule of law, which originates in Article 2 of the Constitution. The principle of trust in law requires that individual decisions that are legal and adopted without prior reservations and in their nature are not stable. The law may exercise its function of regulating social life if it is as permanent and permanent as possible. Thus, over a thousand 300 sub-laws are not adopted in a year and 10 PKPs are regulated in a chaotic way. That an average lawyer can no longer be found in current legislation. It continues, at the same time as in Article 2 of the Constitution, the competing principle of adapting law to the social situation, for which the Constitutional Court points out that in adapting the law to social conditions it is necessary to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and that constitutional principles must always be read in full, that there cannot be one principle without a second salary, and that you have forgotten about this other side, that this lack of confidence is created, that is why there is some extreme disappointment in the arbitrariness of the rule in this country, that is, because you have also tried to bring this law back to some kind of subjugation of the National Assembly of Executives, so that again some increase and accumulation of powers in the executive branch, we see what is going on with the judiciary, that I am trying to achieve, through the discrediting of certain judges, that the principle of confidence in the judiciary is, of course, to a minimum, and I think that I will repeat it is truly sad again, that I will be absolutely against myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We're done with the third round of applications. Does anyone else want to discuss it? One more. First, Boris Doblekar's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I was talking because I was also mentioned I was talking about these problems about the constant repetition of rulings. Throughout Europe it is the same, all over Europe it is the same, because we are not exceptions or parliaments have given special powers to the government, we are not exceptions. When I mentioned the Constitutional Court, it did a lot of damage. Tone Jerovšek, Dr. Miro Cerar yesterday politically with Tanja Gobsek look at this, listen to both lawyers what they said about the decisions of constitutional judges, which is divided, which is also divided, polarized. Much damage has been done by this and, of course, you are happy to resist it and it is a pity that even constitutional judges cannot unify themselves in such important matters at the time of the epidemic. And then, of course, in KUL you usually like to abuse or use it for political struggle and your April 24th. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u132	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I will now be very direct, and I will ask Mr Cuglja, because I know that even in the media it has been announced that you are leaving the post of State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, and I wonder if this is also related to these, I will say, the pay-as-you-go changes or anomalies that have been presented here today in the National Assembly. Now the fact is, who also closely followed the media or, I'll say, even 24ur.com, N1, then your homeland even wrote about it and these things. And the fact that it was very interesting to me personally or also asked me one big question was that, in fact, when the negotiations on these pay grade began, these young doctors' union and the Fides union were somehow hand-in-hand or for some time participated, as far as I know, even informally on the actual possibility, now I do not know how much this holds, but it was also stated that they had already coordinated with the Ministry of Health from May to November with regard to the draft Health Wages Act. And according to these unofficial data, because it was not published publicly, it would actually bring out health workers from the single pay system. So I have a feeling, now I don't know how you could actually imagine today that this isn't some kind of smoke screen with these amendments, it's said that bigger things or bigger things are actually going on in the back or that it's actually an option to get out, it's called doctors from this common pay system. He is also a representative of the Youth Union, in fact, according to the Committee, following this Committee on Finance, which was also discussed by a large number of speakers before, or stated the following. [[Incomprehensible]] See, in fact, this amendment provides nothing but the possibility of breaking ceilings, which is certainly welcome for our older colleagues, it is said, as well, young doctors know or have been aware that they will not actually be included in increases, in salary increases, or in grades. So from this point of view, or very much Mr Cugelj has also been very good at avoiding this response, but he has been constantly talking about social dialogue, that some agreements are under way, but actually confirmed or confirmed that these younger doctors will be given the opportunity or should be given the opportunity to make progress and some fair payment, and in fact we have not received an answer. And I personally have to tell you from my experience. I also have a doctor, a personal, very good one, who is also at the beginning of his career or his way, and it really is not fair to these young doctors, even these family doctors, that they are already basically set up so low, I will say, as a low starting point to start their operation or professional path. And again, if we look at one thing, which is even to think, it is true that in this increase or this amendment, which would raise the wages of those doctors who are already in the highest grade, it is said in the 57th pay grade, that in fact, 36% of such doctors are said to be about 2 000 481 doctors and doctors. So again we're talking about some majority who actually will, I'm going to say, get an opportunity or get higher wages, and on the other hand, those who are at the beginning of their journey, and who we all know that those who are studying or who have studied medicine, that really, after they've completed their studies, they already have something, I'm going to say, this practice or practice for themselves, and then, when they start or when they start specializing or when they become family doctors, whatever the other things, then they've been thrown away, or thrown away, too. [[sign for the end of the debate]] in this option, they have to decide for themselves all of a sudden on these major professional matters, which they also decide on, say, already more experienced doctors. So, from this point of view, I'm afraid or also I feel that this is some kind of smoke screen, because, as far as I've been aware, the Fides union is always pushing for an exit from this common pay grade and even until recently, [[sign for the end of the debate]] up to a few days ago, she's still insisting that doctors get out of this common pay grade. Well, I'll ask Mr. Cugl if he can answer me or if, why, he's leaving the Ministry of Justice. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Now, as far as my personal career is concerned, I do not think that this is the point of the agenda of the National Assembly, so I will not answer that, but what matters is that I will explain this to the Member. The Ministry of Public Administration has provided an initiative to prepare the Ministry of State for specificities that could put in place a new law to establish common basic wage systems in the public sector. That's why we're at the Ministry of Health 24. 3. 2021 also set up a working group to prepare the text of the law, which will regulate a separate part of the health pay system and a draft starting point for the negotiation of collective agreements in the field of health. The working group also concluded its work, drafted this law and, of course, handed it over to the Minister of Health. This is the answer to your question as to the specific part of the Health Act. But once again, once again, you mentioned young doctors. Once again, the article you are discussing today is just the basis for opening up the possibility of collective agreements and negotiating with trade unions, including young doctors, to start discussing wages, promotions or sounds, not reductions, increases in salaries for doctors and young doctors. [[…]] Once again, here young doctors are not excluded and will be and are an integral part of the negotiating team and still have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it under Article 1? [[Yeah.]] It's still an interest, so I'll start the application process. Here you go. First he gets the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Yes, a very large number of citizens have turned to me, [[advertising from the hall]] As for all others, Members and Members, can I continue? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u138	Yeah. A large number of citizens have turned to me, as well as to all other Members and Members of Parliament, I am sure of that. We received a mountain of e-mails, including calls, ordinary text messages and everything else, also letters came into our mailbox and, I have always made it clear that people come to the right specific information, so I published the law on my Facebook page. I added a link where people can read the law themselves, all articles of the PKP-10, amendments of the coalition and, of course, their changes. Then I invited my followers, all who follow me on the social network Facebook, to tell me which article they think is controversial, and I also wrote down that I will seriously consider only those proposals that will be justified. It is said that I am told that this article seems controversial to me, I propose such a solution and such a solution, and until this moment, I have published this just a few hours ago, I have not yet received any concrete answer. However, I do not agree with the general statement that the law we have drawn up by this Government is controversial, but we can talk in a direction which is not acceptable and what we would change in this article. I'm willing to listen and also help as far as this is concerned. Now, the fact of what PKP10 brings. Don't worry, it doesn't bring any mandatory vaccination. There is no mandatory vaccination in the PKP10 and this needs to be highlighted in particular. The fact is that this is already possible under the Law on Infectious Diseases for 25 years, only with some act of the Ministry of Health. Today, before the National Assembly, there is a protest against compulsory vaccination by a handful of people, although there is not a single article on this subject in the PKP10. Outside, they say, are protesting people who don't know why they're protesting. But their protest leader knows very well, and he knows very well why he's protesting outside. Now, the heart of this PKP10 problem, if I may say at all a problem. The fact is, the opposition speaks its rhetoric about the entire epidemic and is deceiving how everything is wrong, how everything is wrong in this country. And it's with one purpose to create the impression that everything in this country is bad. This is the only goal of the opposition to create the impression that everything in this country is bad. Is that true? What exactly is the purpose? The purpose of the opposition KUL is to create some tsunami, to create some tsunami for dissatisfied citizens. We're just ahead of the election. And it's just about power and nothing else. And as one of the opposition's presidents said, it's important because money is coming, European money is coming, who's going to share that money, and more importantly, who's going to get that money – and that's what this is all about. It's about power, and it's about money. The rest of what we are following today in the National Assembly is the sand in the eyes and the public performance that our citizens are watching and arguing and sharing. That's why I wanted the citizens to read the law, and that's why I published it on my Facebook page in order to be able to look at it and comment on it and not make some wrong decisions on the basis of different articles, such and different ones. I mean, I don't agree to a general and groundless statement. However, the fact that is, what the PKP10 brings, and this needs to be stressed. Solidarity allowance for pensioners. And those pensioners who receive the least are said to receive a pension of up to EUR 510 will receive 300 euros in allowances, from EUR 510 to EUR 612 230 in addition and EUR 612 to EUR 714 130 in addition. PKP10 also provides a solidarity allowance for particularly vulnerable groups amounting to 150 euros, a one-off solidarity allowance to improve the social situation of people amounting to 150 euros, will also be given to persons over 65 years of age who have not received an allowance as pensioners. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros will also be granted to persons over 65 years of age who are carriers or members of the farm, without pensions, disabled persons and also war veterans. The law also provides a monthly allowance for members of the security and rescue forces and for students and students who assist in the care of patients in health or welfare institutions. In the field of economy, the validity of tourist vouchers issued in 2020 is extended to 30. 6. 2022. The tourist vouchers for 2021 have already been extended by the government to 30. 6. 2022. We are also extending the measure of EUR 500 to 30. 6. 2022, to be received by parents of newborns. And what I have now listed is one of the many measures brought by the CAP10. These aren't fillings. And I ask you to make sure that you read the law yourself and that you do not decide on the basis of some articles you see on social networks. However, as much as I have listened to the opposition today, this opposition, of course, wants to have done everything they have not done to me, but they have mostly had the time of the scissors and the canvas in their hands. At least that's what I understood. And for the end of the day, I'm asking for a friend: Has Branko Maslesha already shown his degree? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I suggest we all stick to the content of the law. And the rest of the exercise is to be used elsewhere. As the last one, Iva Dimic gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State and Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! True, today we are considering the tenth anti-Korona package, which is supposed to help save the Slovenian economy, Slovenian health care, education, farmers. In short, the package is estimated at about 180 million, which actually goes directly to people. From this point of view, I really don't understand the opposition of the other packages, but most of all today, I have been monitoring today's debates to discuss at the point when people are being helped with concrete money. This is not the year 2012, when we were receiving the ZUJF and we were looking at the items where we would take them. Today, with the 10th package added to Slovenia, in the Slovenian economy, in health care, in the elderly, in the newborns, in the economy, I will say, it is huge, as my predecessor colleague said, perhaps not everyone has read what is addressed and is entering 180 million. And look at the fraction, such resistance to helping people. And I'll touch the elderly first. It has already been said several times today that there is a solidarity allowance for pensioners with the lowest pensions, the unemployed beneficiaries of disability benefits and users of occupational pensions of up to €300, if they have up to €500 in pensions, then €230 and €130 in pensions of between €612 and €732. So, more help is being given to people. And we must not forget what has happened during this time of the government and what has been done. We just didn't forget about the older ones. Extraordinary reconciliation of pensions for 2% last December 94 million, regular annual reconciliation of pensions for 3.2% of 172 million, solidarity so-called anti-korona allowance for all lower pensions 67 million, regular annual allowance for pensions 139 million. That was last year. Now we're adding again. And I don't understand the opposition at the point where we're actually helping those older people who are actually having a hard time breaking through the month. Of course, the solidarity allowance of 150 euros is also granted to older members or farm holders and the solidarity allowance is also granted to war veterans, disabled persons and beneficiaries of disability benefits. All this until 31st. 12. 2021 is the time to receive this. It is then said that given that it so positively refers to this anti-Korona package that people, those in need of help, and in spite of all such opposition. I think it is very important to mention that in the part of the Labour Relations Act, workers who were unable to make use of all the remaining leave from 2020 due to the urgent needs of Covid19’s management in 2021 are allowed to use it by 1 April 2022 at the latest. However, leave for 2021 may be used up to 31. 12. 2022. SE says that we are certainly addressing those who have solved the epidemic crisis here. They're health workers. Their vacation will not fail, they will not be destroyed, but they will be able to use this vacation until the end of 2022. I think that this is also such an important issue in the area of measures addressed by this law that we have before us today. Second, if I may mention it today, I think it's okay. What does this antikoronic package 10 bring? True, today it was heard from a colleague, Alexander said there was no mandatory vaccination club for us to get an extremely large number of e-mails. But it brings something that is responsible for the damage caused to a person by vaccination against communicable disease COVID-19 and the use or applications of the medicinal product for the treatment of COVID-19. And here's a step forward. It acknowledges and, of course, gives responsibility for the damage caused. That's the term we should be talking about. Is the country responsible for those who, of course, have been vaccinated and who have had complications? We've been listening to what's wrong for a year, but this is where things are going. What I think is important today has been highlighted several times and I will be alone again, I think it is necessary to say that measures in the field of protection, rescue and assistance are also necessary. Who is currently helping those on the ground in the last week when we had the action? Who was the one who helped in the first place and, of course, made it available that in Slovenia, I can say today, we have successfully accomplished this task, we are being vaccinated weekly. These are volunteers who help care for patients in health and welfare institutions, and for this they have an additional allowance for exposure to risks and a special burden of EUR 30 per day. The supplement also belongs to students and students amounting to EUR 25 per day. And, of course, they are also those who have actually helped and from this title can only be addressed as gratitude, that they felt encouraged, and that they can make everything available because we all needed this help. Once again, tourist vouchers will also allow people to take advantage of them in the coming year. It's a positive gesture from this government. This gives you an extension, gives you the possibility that in some way everyone will be able to get a little rest from all the pressure caused by the coronavirus. It's the yuppie wish of all of us. And I don't know where they're going with this kind of debate. They're not moving forward, and even if there's someone today, but I heard, he said, I can't wait for April 24th. Do you know what they say? Man turns, God turns.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? And Andrew Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u142	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Let me say that in the beginning I did not intend to advertise, but there were a number of things to discuss, so it is good that we will also make a very clear declaration here. First time. I would like to thank the distinguished minister, who has been in the hall almost all the time, here in the first place, even though the position every minute he went out took this opportunity to make it public. Let me say that today's debate may be so important to the opposition, but I am not saying that today there are now only four opposition members in the Chamber or the KUL coalition. But let's leave it, let's leave it, it's not today's theme. Now, as far as I am concerned and as far as my duty is concerned, Slovenia has increased its debt in relation to GDP less than the average of the euro area countries and the European Union. This needs to be made clear to citizens and citizens. Therefore, Slovenia owed less than the average euro area country or the European Union, so the government coalition achieved over-average results with an average indebtedness. That is why we also have the lowest unemployment rate in Slovenia, lower than it was just before the crisis. Now, my colleagues, a colleague in front of me from the opposition, I quote, she said, for you is an important capital and an individual, and for us is an important country, a society, a community and so on. Now, for New Slovenia, we like to build a country from below. It is said that for us first an individual, each individual, is important, because we know that many individuals then form a country and a community. For this reason, we advocate only healthy and successful individuals can build a connected community and a country, and the CAP10 therefore refers to measures for the most vulnerable and that they can still be integrated better and more fully into the community. There's a difference between us and the other side. Now, as far as I'm concerned, there's been a lot of talk. I'd like to draw attention to just two more things. That we haven't even forgotten the firefighters around here. And if I quote, irrespective of the second paragraph, it belongs to a professional firefighter in the professional core of a voluntary firefighting unit carrying out the tasks of a public fire service, a special hazard-exposure allowance of 65% of the hourly basic wage for hours as it did in the time of the declared epidemic in the risk situation of 2020 and 2021. We haven't forgotten the firefighters, and we're putting it out. Let me say that eight such fire companies have already saved most of this congregation, but we are now saving those two who have not seen this possible solution. And here I also thank the Secretary of State, who has kept his promise and we are now being saved. Of course, today it is not in the hall of those who have warned of this most pressing matter, but it is difficult to admit that the matter has already been resolved and has now completely resolved. As far as this is concerned, I would like to mention another matter that we may not have mentioned. I welcome the fact that there are some things in the PKP that are not directly related to the epidemic. And here I would like to point out a easier permanent stay in Slovenia after repatriation. In particular, this amendment, I have to say here again, has no connection with COVID-19, but the proposed amendment to the Slovenian Relations Act with Slovenians outside the borders allows for permanent acquisition of permits for Slovenians who do not have citizenship or are close family members of the Slovenian people. Of course, I very much welcome this matter. Of course, some were driving a Venezuelan presidential plane, while others were saving the social crisis of those people who had Slovenian roots and had to flee Venezuela from Slovenia. And here we need to clearly show citizens and citizens what image or where some of the parties want to take us. In this place I will stop and once again I will be very happy to support the current legislation, because I know that this will help the most vulnerable groups across Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Yes, in this amendment we propose an additional second paragraph, which changes in the way that the decision on remote implementation is taken, of course, by the competent minister/ministerial minister, but can be adopted if other measures are also introduced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, which prevent mass contacts between people and which are, of course, more or less intensely affecting human rights. And then it's necessary every 14 days to do it again, to say so. Why? Because in the opposition, it seems unacceptable for us to have schools closed down again before the inn, shops, not to say churches. So such a measure as has already happened has left absolutely too much negative consequences, so we want it to change in the way I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the LMŠ and SD parliamentary groups for a new Article 10b. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 4 (b) and 12 (b) as well as the amendments of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want a word? Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u146	Here we propose deleting this 4.b of Chapter 12b of Article. Why do we propose a deletion that simultaneously prolongs the possibility that municipalities, such as villages, local communities or fourth communities, can carry out orders of services or goods beyond procedural public procurement? The purpose of the procurement procedures is to ensure uniform and equal conditions for the participation of interested tenderers whose aim is to select the highest quality provider of goods or services with all the necessary knowledge and experience to carry out the contract in a transparent manner. In view of the fact that some exceptions are being made now, that the local communities, and the fourth communities now all of a sudden they can just order some things without public procurement, are absolutely unacceptable. And I'm not going to speculate here that this is being done for any other purpose, so we're proposing in the opposition a deletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 22a is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal for a new Article 22aa, so we will discuss amendments to these Articles together. So I am putting to the debate two amendments from the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 22a and to the new Article 22aa. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment of the SAB Group to Chapter 7 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 33 and will therefore be discussed together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 7 and 33 and the two amendments of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11a of Chapters and 40a and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the unaffiliated Members and the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 40a. Anybody want a word? Mag. Bojana Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u148	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. In the opposition, we propose deleting this article, because Article 11a and the new 40a provides for a derogation from the regulation governing the public sector wage system. For the E wage group, health and E1 posts, doctors and dentists are required to be up to 31. 12. 2022 does not apply the limits of paragraph 2 of this Regulation governing the public sector wage system. This provides that a maximum of 57 pay grade may be reached in the C1 to J3 payroll groups. The intervention law we have on the table today is by no means a place for such changes. These changes should be adopted in the dialogue with the trade union. PKP 10 is dealt with by an emergency procedure, so there was no such dialogue. Nor has there been a public debate. Unfortunately, the public was excluded. Such an article would also be adopted without social dialogue. The new article 40a proposed the coalition only with an amendment that was tabled only a few hours before the consideration of this bill on the home working body. We cannot accept payments in the public health system with amendments to the intervention law, but with amendments to the sectoral legislation, which must once again be coordinated with key stakeholders in the dialogue and also coordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to the new 40.a. is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Chapter 15 and to the amendment to Article 40.f., so we will discuss amendments to the title of this Chapter and to these articles together. In the debate, I am putting forward three amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC by Article 40a to Chapter 15 and Article 40f. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate section 11.b and section 40b and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 40.c and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate sub-chapter 1.a and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46b and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 1.c and 46c and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 69 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the debate Article 10 of Chapters 71a and the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 71a and the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 71a. Andrea Zabrett, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u150	Thank you. I'll be here, explaining all the amendments and all the articles together. This is an amendment prepared on the proposal of the Accounting Services Chamber, 21 but it was extremely difficult and all the measures contained in the intervention laws to assist the economy in particular financial measures, which have significantly increased the scope of the work of the accounting services and given the tremendous pressure on the work of the accounting services and the limited functioning of employees in the accounting services, also because of the increased number of infected and sick persons and, as a result, these increased labour shortages, made it impossible to plan properly on the required prescribed deadlines for the submission of various reports to the state and other authorities, so they proposed that, in the opposition, we also had a meaningful support for the examples of the previous CAPs, where the extension of the annual reports and other documents would have been feasible, as I said, the following measures proposed by the new Articles 71 to 71. However, it is a matter of extending the deadline for the submission of a tax return on income from the activity, extending the deadline for the submission of tax returns from legal persons, extending the deadline for the preparation and transmission of final accounts and annual reports for 2021, which are to be submitted to the IAPES, for a period of two months. That means, by 31 May 2022. An extension of the deadline for notifying the determination of the tax base by taking into account the standardised expenditure for establishing a new insurance base in 2021, no later than a month of June. And the extension of the deadline for the composition and the opening of the informational calculation of the income for 2021, which would mean from 31 May 2022 to 30 June 2022. This would certainly make it easier for the accounting services to work and thus provide reliable and quality annual reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u151	Thank you very much. There's more magic in the word. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I'm going to touch Article 71a, this is the real use of supplementary health insurance funds to finance the healthcare system. With the amendment, we propose to amend this article in such a way that the current content governing the provision of funds for the financing of certain measures in the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is withdrawn from the proposal for a law. Why? This is because it is not clear how much resources are planned for this and how much will be available and where will they be able to draw on it. With the amended text of Article 71a, we want to ensure that supplementary health insurance funds are used to finance the health system more precisely, for health-care programmes or health-care services, specialist hospital activities where waiting periods are the longest. According to the Health Care Act, according to Article 62 of the Insurance, supplementary health insurance represents a public interest in the Republic of Slovenia, which is carried out in accordance with the principles of intergenerational reciprocity and gender interaction between all insurance providers of supplementary health insurance. Together, it is said that compulsory health insurance forms part of the social security of insured persons under the system health legislation. Complementary health insurance is intended to cover the difference between the value of health services covered by a compulsory health insurance that is not covered by compulsory health insurance. However, since access to health services has been significantly reduced during the epidemic this year, there is a backlog of insurance companies carrying out supplementary health insurance disproportionate part of the pooled resources from supplementary health insurance. However, since access to health services has also been hampered and the availability of access to health services has been denied, these supplementary health insurance funds should be allocated to health-care programmes or health-care services of specialist hospital activities where waiting periods are the longest. And we know that's quite a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. The amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and Non-Aligned Members' groups to Chapter 11 of the provisional measures in the tax area is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new 71.b, 71.c, 71.d and 71st articles, so we will discuss these amendments together. I therefore put to the debate two amendments from the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Chapter 11 Interim measures in the tax area and to the new 71.b, 71.c, 71.c, 71.d and 71.e. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS LAW, IN THE framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act introduces four European Directives into the Slovenian legal order for the first time; the rules for determining the place of delivery of services and the supply of goods in e-commerce transfer the place of taxation of goods and services from the country of residence of the supplier to the Member State where the goods are consumed. Secondly, by abolishing the value added tax exemption on imports of consignments up to €22, the taxation of purchases of smaller values from imports from Slovenia shall be equal. Here I would like to say that, on the basis of the directive, this solution has already been introduced into the Slovenian legal order. Thirdly, in the area of common defence efforts of the Union, with effect from 1 July 2022, the rules on imports and purchases of goods and services will be equivalent to those already applicable to NATO. Fourthly; exemption from the value added tax for imports and purchases of goods and services carried out in Slovenia by the Union authorities when these goods and services are intended for free distribution to the Member States to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. These rules have already been applied to us. However, simplifications for taxpayers and tax authorities and, of course, those following environmental policy are also an important part of the novel. Among these, I would like to stress the following; the taxpayers will have the right to deduct value added tax from the purchase of motor vehicles, passenger motor vehicles, passenger vehicles, without the release of Co2 for business use. This is said, then, if they use this vehicle, this personal vehicle for purely official purposes, but if it is also used for private purposes, then they will have to take into account a calculation that allows a taxable person to take into account only part of the value added tax. An important measure is also the obligation to identify or abolish an identification obligation for the purposes of value added tax for a taxable person not established in Slovenia where he carries out supplies for which that tax must be paid by the recipient of the goods or services. This suspension is a simplification. For taxable persons who first propose value added tax, it is said that they are new taxpayers, there is a proposal for simplification, namely, that this taxable person should provide additional documentation on the list of invoices received and issued. The threshold for mandatory entry of farmers into the value added tax system is abolished, meaning in other words that today this threshold is EUR 7 000 500. That's actually off. The obligation to issue an account in paper form to the customer shall also be lifted unless the customer requests such an account to be handed over to him. Of course, this has nothing to do with the issue of the account itself, because the taxpayer will still have to issue the invoice, will be recorded in the cash register, will be recorded anywhere else, only this account will not be extradited. The proposed changes will be due to new [[sign for the end of the debate]] rules [[?]] in the area of e-commerce, simplification of value added tax rules and reduction of vehicle purchase burdens without CO2 emissions for business use only have a positive impact on the economy. At the same time, some solutions will also have a positive impact on the revenue of the state budget. And these positive effects [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] They're actually showing up. Dear Members, having regard to what I have said and taking into account the solutions in the law, I propose that the proposal for the amendment of the Value Added Tax Law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At its 68th emergency meeting, on 23 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which was sent to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance, or submitted by the Government with a proposal for an urgent procedure. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC members to 10 members and by the Group of Non-Aligned Members to 2 members. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill. He said that simplifications and harmonisation are being introduced with the Council of the European Union directives that will help to further modernise the system of supply of goods and services with value added tax. The revised VAT accounting rules also expect positive effects on the revenue of the State budget under this heading. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the specificity of this law was proposed to repeal the rules on value added tax obligations relating to the Council of the European Union Directives applicable to the provision of services and distance sales of goods. In doing so, it drew attention to Article 147 of the Constitution, which provides that taxes are prescribed by the State by law, which makes the provision of a tax obligation constitutionally controversial. It also made a comment on Article 33, drawing attention to the full range of the identification data of taxable persons in the law, which is intended for each purpose, and thus expressed the need to unify the terms for the same content. She said that some comments were taken into account by the services with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and some remained in a written comment. The Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance addressed and supported the proposal of the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. Their solutions go primarily towards simplifying the law and will also become more resistant to potential fraud and more business-friendly. The discussion put forward the view that this is another type of legislation that reduces the revenue of the state treasury since it helps companies to purchase expensive electric luxury vehicles. Some discussers, however, welcomed the help of businesses in purchasing electric vehicles and stressed that it was mainly a technical law and transposition of directives, so they would not object to the proposal. They explained that the proposal under consideration had already been dealt with in July this year and had not been adopted, stressing that it would be implemented in the legal order by 4 European directives and 1 implementing regulation, which is why it is already late since the deadline for implementation was 1 July 2021. In view of the above and the possible monetary consequences, it is important that the proposal is adopted. It is, in most cases, technically oriented and mainly related to simplification and removal of administrative barriers to VAT payers and payers. However, with regard to warnings of expected lower revenues in the State budget for the tax burden on the purchase of electric vehicles, it was stressed that the proposal is in line with a environmentally friendly policy. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC to the tenth articles and did not adopt the amendments of the non-aligned Group of Members to the two articles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u157	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u158	Hello! Before us are amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, a resurgence stage of the government of several legal offensives in the demolition of the Slovenian public financial system. The government has also donated this law from the pockets of the weak to the most powerful and thereby challenged the basis for the normal functioning of the social state, public education, public health, culture, sport, science and development. In short, it sacrifices progress and prosperity for the luxury of a handful. The most prominent example of this plausible law is VAT deduction for electric vehicles, for example. The entanglement of the winged social justice, fair transition and responsibility in the fight against climate change is no different from the new tax gift of the management caste. Companies will be able to apply a deduction, which is very high, at 80,000 euros, companies will be able to procure expensive luxury vehicles without tax. To make the gift even more transparent to the most powerful managers, the law further does not impose any restriction on the tax exemption given the extent to which vehicles are used for business or personal purposes. Therefore, tax exemptions will also be able to benefit companies from providing management staff with expensive private-service seals. Let us recall the equally controversial tax exemptions for the purchase of electric vehicles that the Government has also entered into the amendment of the Income Act, which eliminates the payment of income from the credit ratings for the use of electric vehicles. With that regulation, the manager will save an additional €7 000 500 each year at the expense of the social state, public education, the health system, etc. almost an annual budget for a family living on a minimum wage. Government tax reform is full of such private capital candy that are sold as green policy. Also in the government's amendment to the Law on corporate income tax, there are incentives to invest businesses in the so-called digital and green transition, which will cost us more than €16 million annually, according to the government's assessment. This is another measure by which the Government is expected to demonstrate its commitment to solving the environmental crisis and reducing CO2 emissions. But it's about throwing sand in your eyes. This same government donated €29 million of tax exemptions to rich people in the new Motor Vehicle Tax Act for the purchase of waste and environmentally harmful luxury vehicles. And now she's pretending to solve the environmental crisis with new layoffs. Anyone else believe that? The introduction of tax incentives for the purchase and use of electric vehicles is a matter of poor environmental policy. Transport is really the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia, but the solution to this problem is not to encourage electric vehicles and hybrids whose prices range between 20,000 and 170 000 euros, for example, which are not at all available to the majority of the population and the population. The solution to the environmental crisis in the area of transport is not to replace all passenger vehicles with electric vehicles, but environmentally sustainable and affordable public passenger transport, which will reduce the need for all passenger vehicles to a minimum. In Levica, we completely reject all the chapters of government mixing with public treasury, which architects themselves falsely crown with a promising tax reform. Workers, pensioners, farmers, unemployed people, students, students, the environment and all those who are not top-ranking managers are only harming themselves, so we will also reject this attempt in the knowledge that this damage, which the Government has left behind on behalf of the private interests of the handful, will be rectified for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u159	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The nature of the country's existence requires the provision of certain goods and services necessary for its operation. The task of the state is to create a framework that ensures security and orderliness of coexistence and an environment in which an individual has the opportunity to develop his or her potential, to increase his or her talents, to realize his or her abilities, to create a family. Of course, in order to finance the provision of these freedoms, goods and services, the State must establish a mechanism through which citizens contribute a certain part of their income to the common state budget. The concept of taxes in itself therefore constitutes an intervention in the ownership of the right of an individual who is justified and justified in the necessity of establishing the State and functioning of its systems. Since there is a legitimate interference with the individual's property rights in the determination of taxes, a great deal of rationality and caution is needed in the establishment of the tax system. Tax legislation can also pursue certain other specific objectives of this amendment to the VAT Law, for example, constitutes a contribution to sustainable and green mobility. The draft law introduces the possibility of deducting VAT on the purchase of electric motor vehicles if these vehicles are intended to operate the activities of the debtor and the following two conditions are met. The motor vehicle shall be free of carbon dioxide emissions and the value of the motor vehicle, including VAT and other charges, shall not exceed EUR 80 000. Therefore, it will no longer matter what activity the vehicle is used for. With regard to those vehicles, the right to deduct VAT may also be exercised in the procurement of fuels, lubricants, spare parts and services closely related thereto. Assuming that taxpayers acquire around 500 electric vehicles per year at an average price of 50,000 euros for these purchases, the possibility of deducting VAT for these purchases would mean a slightly over 2 million euros in the first year of implementation of the law and 4.5 million euros in the next year of the state budget for value added tax. The bill also refers to the aim of simplifying the tax regime for farmers. In order to simplify the functioning of the VAT system for farmers and to avoid the annual administrative obligations of checking the scope of cadastral income and taxable subsidies and the subsequent identification of VAT farmers under official duty, the threshold for compulsory entry of farmers into the VAT system is abolished. This is the limit of the cadastral income of all members of the farm economy for the last calendar year of EUR 7 000 500. However, the possibility for the taxable person to calculate part of his entry VAT with flat-rate remuneration and also the possibility for such farmers to be voluntarily included in the VAT system. The obligation to issue invoices for VAT purposes for the supply of goods and services carried out by the taxable person to customers in the territory of Slovenia shall be supplemented by the obligation to deliver the invoice to the customer only if the customer so requests. The VAT form will no longer be prescribed by the Regulation, but will be published in e-taxes and more detailed compliance instructions will be published for each field. This will give the tax authority greater flexibility for additional explanations of sex in order to ensure clarity for taxpayers [[sign for the end of the debate]] and legal certainty, which transactions need to be entered in a given field. The law brings a number of positive changes to reduce administrative burdens, improves the situation of small farmers and contributes to green mobility. That is why the proposal in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u161	Thank you, too. Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u162	Respectable. The substance of this law should be the timely transfer of European provisions in the area of value added tax accounting, which should be additional to the state budget, but not so. The government has drawn up the law within months of the delay, which is why it risks European monetary penalties. At the same time, it also included some solutions that are neither necessary nor necessary. The law introduces the right to deduct total VAT on passenger electric vehicles for service purposes if their value does not exceed EUR 80 000. This is an environmental policy measure, which is not bad in itself, but today, at the time of the state budget, which will require Slovenia to commit at least EUR 5 billion next year, the main question is whether this measure is necessary and necessary. Every law that has financial implications today poses a risk to the sustainability of public finances. According to the new customer, a paper bill will be issued only if specifically requested. After years of efforts to curb the grey economy, the establishment of a tax box system and the punishment of non-accounted citizens, everything is different today. The advertising slogan “Turn On Reason, Request Account” has become irrelevant since taxes in this country have apparently become stupid. The law mainly contains good solutions that will help digitise and simplify the system for the taxation of supplies of goods and services, particularly when it comes to cross-border electronic commerce. Payments and VAT applications will be made through an online portal that will have to be established on 1 July this year. One of the new developments, which will slightly increase the revenue of the budget, is the introduction of VAT payments for all supplies from third countries. So far, supplies worth up to €22 have been considered exempt. We must be aware that the credits for these good marriage solutions cannot be attributed to the government, because they were created under the auspices of the European Union. The only task of the Slovenian government was to transpose European solutions into domestic law in a timely manner, which it failed to achieve. The government has done its job with a line of least resistance, as it has practically copied the provisions of the European directives. The result is a vague, incomplete and inadequately reasoned law. The government has been given a new opportunity and an additional time to prepare the law properly, as an identical government law has already fallen at the July session, but has not taken advantage of you. At the same time, it risks renegotiating the law and fines of the European Union. Did you know that our constitution provides that tax obligations can only be prescribed by law adopted by Parliament? This part of the Constitution obviously does not apply when it is in the power of the SDS, since the new tax obligations have been prescribed only by the regulation because the law in Parliament did not receive sufficient support. In view of the persistent demand by the opposition SDS for an unfair VAT hike during the time of the previous economic crisis, we expected a promised reduction in the novel, but we sought such a proposal in vain. VAT rates remain unchanged. Apparently today, the SDS coalition has seen the extent to which such a reduction in value added tax would have a negative impact on public finances. In the SAB Group in this public financial situation, additional risks to public finances cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u163	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, which will primarily serve as a basis for transposition of European directives. The deadline for transposition of these Directives has expired already in July, but today's adoption of the amendment can avoid penalties for irregular adoption. The proposed Value Added Tax Act complements the existing law with provisions in the framework of Council Directives of the European Union and Council Implementing Regulation. At the same time, the proposed amendment introduces the necessary simplifications of the system of taxation and payment of VAT for cross-border services and distance purchases. The objective of the proposal, as defined by the Government, is to make it administratively easier to fulfil tax obligations for taxpayers and to relieve both taxpayers and the tax authority. Our tax legislation needs such updates that will follow global trends and respond to the modern needs of the economy. We are convinced that the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act is also a step towards greater efficiency of the Slovenian economy. Once again, the economy is a generator of prosperity, development and social security in society or the country. Our role as legislator must be focused primarily on ensuring a modern and secure environment within which it can strengthen its competitiveness. The new law also foresees, inter alia, that an invoice in paper form will be handed over to the buyer only in cases where it is required, which does not mean that the buyers will not need to be issued. We believe it is time to start exploiting the potential offered by digitisation. We have the opportunity to relieve the working processes of operators of various economic services by adopting the amendment of the law, while at the same time reducing the pressure that waste materials exerts on the environment. In our Group of Members, we are aware that taxation, state aid to businesses and other types of state intervention in the economy have a positive impact on society. This was especially apparent at the time of the coronary crisis when, in the absence of swift and prudent measures today, we would certainly be talking about an economic catastrophe of a wider scale. It is therefore important to maintain the relationship between tax revenue and national expenditure, as proposed by this proposal. We are confident that the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Law will have a positive impact on the revenue side of the national balance sheet through accelerated consumption on the one hand and, on the other hand, reduce the administrative burden of business operators. On the basis of these facts, we will support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The primary objective of tax policy is to realize the planned budgetary revenues. The amount of tax revenue in the overall revenue structure is crucial in the function of achieving the budgetary objectives. The most important financial impact of value added tax is reflected in the extent and relative stability of the public revenues it provides. However, the scope of public revenue is linked to the definition of the tax base by the number and amount of tax rates and the number of tax exemptions. The value added tax generally has a broad tax base and a high basic tax rate with a small number of tax exemptions and reduced tax rates. Value added tax is the total revenue of the State budget. The annual amount of revenue under this heading was €3 billion and €528 million in 2020 and €3 billion and €817 million in 2019. And what is most important about this is that VAT revenues cover, for a longer period, between 35% and 40% of the total budget revenue and are the largest source. The correction of the VAT tax system is necessary due to the transposition of the European directives into Slovenian practice. The instruments to simplify accounting procedures and instruments to prevent VAT avoidance in trade between Member States are at the heart of the functional purpose of these European Directives. Amendments and additions shall govern the obligation to notify prior notification of the application of individual exemptions, the non-disclosure of identification for VAT purposes to a taxable person who is not established in Slovenia in compliance with certain conditions. The content shall be accounted for by value added tax which allows the tax authority to be more flexible when explaining in the e-tax system, tax relief when purchasing an electric vehicle, even a series of simplifications and administrative discharges and a proposal to issue the invoice in paper form only at the request of the buyer. It should be noted here that it is not a matter of avoiding the issuance of accounts. The account will certainly be issued and will be recorded in all the accounts and accounts prescribed. But it will only be written on request. The financial impact and expenditure sides amount to EUR 2 million and EUR 420 000 and on the revenue side cumulatively around EUR 5 million, which cannot be fully quantified. Compared to annual revenues, €3 billion and €800 million this year, they are truly minimal. The Slovenian state budget has 3 billion and 126 million euro deficits this year. A deficit of 2 billion and 741 million euros is planned for 2022. So in two years, 5 billion and 600 million. The issues are clear here, they are the costs that have been incurred and they will continue to be incurred to remedy the damage caused by the epidemic. However, the risk of the deficit moving to unsustainable areas is high, especially in the implementation of low-tax policies. While low taxes support a large number of citizens, especially those who lose such a policy alone, which is a type of contradiction. Supporting low-tax policies means sub-conscious cooperation in the gradual destruction of all the social functions of the State. Citizens thus support their own marginalisation process, threatening the present and future, their own and their children. The policy of higher progressive taxes and higher public spending raises quality of life and brings benefits to the vast majority of citizens. Taking on higher, particularly progressive taxes is not the same as advocating a suicidal tax evasion policy or turning petty human envy into tax pay. As everywhere in life, this is also a matter of real measure. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u167	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u168	Nice greeting again here to all present in the Chamber, especially to you Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with the team and everyone else! The content of the amendment is highly technicalally oriented, but it contains good proposals for people and is oriented towards the current environmental policy. The amendment of the law transposes European directives into the national legal order and adopts administrative simplifications that will facilitate economic recovery following the Covid-19 crisis. The VAT system in e-commerce is changing in a way that allows rules to be uniform at European level. The tax on goods and services to which the value added tax and excise duty also apply. Let me say as information, 606 million euros were collected in April of this year and 68.3% more than last April. VAT is the largest source of public treasury, and therefore budgetary revenue is very important. By comparison, last year's VAT reduction in Germany strongly stimulated household consumption, resulting in more budget revenues. The current proposal of the Income Act, which is currently in parliamentary procedure, would be expected to reduce the VAT rate. In the past, we have already had a lower VAT rate which, due to the crisis, had to rise, the crisis has passed now to reconcile VAT to the new situation has never been good will. The decrease would have been proven, as is evident in Germany, to stimulate consumption and thus increase the revenue flow to the state budget. Of course, the question here is whether a reduction in the VAT rate would have an impact directly on people. The government supports the view that a greater impact on the tax burden on citizens will have a higher overall relief than a lower VAT rate and therefore it is pointless to reduce it. From the point of view of promoting the green economy and achieving the environmental objectives of transport, a deduction for VAT on the purchase of passenger cars would certainly help facilitate the decision to purchase an environmentally friendly car. Customers will also be able to exercise the right to deduct VAT in the procurement of fuels, lubricants, spare parts and services related to those vehicles. The aim of the pursuit of environmental policy is also to ensure that an account in paper form is provided to the consumer only on their request. The account is not a waste belonging to paper, but to other wastes, because it is plasticised and affluent paper that cannot be put into paper anymore, so this proposal is good in terms of environmental issues because it will account for considerably less waste. The people who have taken accounts so far will have no problem asking for them. Those who were only under a burden will have one less obligation. It is also a very important novelty to simplify the functioning of the VAT system for farmers. In order to avoid annual administrative obligations to verify the scope of cadastral income and taxable subsidies, and consequently to identify VAT farmers under official duty, the threshold for compulsory entry of farmers into the VAT system currently at EUR 7000 500 shall be abolished. However, flat-rate compensation or voluntary entry into the VAT system remains for farmers. In short, the law under consideration brings a number of benefits to the Slovenian people, and it is certainly a matter of the welfare of the people. Mr Minister, you have the support of the Slovenian National Party in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u169	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with professional co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. The Government wants to simplify and administratively relieve taxpayers and the tax authority by means of a proposal for a new Law on VAT. It also pursues environmental objectives. In the proposal, the Government also allows VAT deductions to be applied to passenger motor vehicles for carrying out activities, namely vehicles without carbon dioxide emissions and invoices to the customer in paper form only at his request. The proposed amendment also introduces several European directives in national legislation which regulate certain obligations with regard to value added tax in the management of services and distance sales of goods. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that Slovenia is almost half a year behind the transposition of these EU directives and that this e-commerce in Slovenia is currently regulated by sub-legislative rules and therefore we support these solutions. We also support solutions that will encourage the purchase of electric passenger vehicles or vehicles without carbon dioxide emissions by allowing these vehicles to deduct VAT. Thus, Slovenia will not only talk about promoting the so-called green economy, but will also deal with tax measures, which are stimulating and not restrictive this time. With regard to the proposed solutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we note that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce wanted to check the momentum for a survey between companies this year on the projected tax changes from 22 onwards. Two-thirds of companies are favoured. However, companies are most supportive of applying VAT deductions for passenger motor vehicles without CO2 emissions to carry out activities. The closing of the threshold for compulsory entry of VAT farmers and the clearing of the account to the buyer received the weakest support. We are also in doubt in the Group of Non-Aligned Members as to the solution which provides that traders and other issuers of invoices would only issue these in paper form at the request of the buyers, or no longer. It is true that about 70 million accounts are issued in Slovenia on average, but our assessment of the closure of the mandatory issue of paper accounts with the aim of regulating environmental issues makes no sense to abolish a well-functioning system. Why? There is a risk that, as a result of the changes in the rules, the cash payment accounts may not be issued at all or that only information invoices will be recorded that will receive corrections without the customer knowing at all. The invoice shall reflect that the money paid has a basis in the goods and services actually charged. In the event of no transfer of the invoice to the buyer, the issuer does not need to properly record the sale in the tax box and thereby establish an audit board at the FURS. In this regard, it is also worth mentioning that the FURS campaign Turn your mind on, take an account that has been designed both to collect taxes and to warn customers why they need an account. According to FRUS, in the mandate of this government, it is not necessary for this aid to be provided in 2021. To some extent, the government has waived one of the preventive mechanisms that allows the customer to verify in an account how and how much he has been charged and to point out whether the seller or the FURS is incompatible with it via the mobile application Check the account. As you know, the purpose of the Tax Law was to limit the grey economy on the one hand and to prevent black employment and, on the other hand, the objective was, of course, to pay more fairly taxes and also to increase tax revenues to value added tax. Otherwise, customers need an account when something goes wrong. Finally, the account allows the customer to verify the correctness of the amount charged by virtue of the quality and quantity of the goods purchased or provided. It proves when and where the goods were purchased and whether the services were provided for them or at what cost. Not to mention the fact that such a measure will cause consumers difficulty in enforcing guarantees, complaints, substitutions, returning products or even returning money. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that this measure will increase the risk of VAT fraud and therefore increase the tax gap. Since our amendment proposing that this measure should be exempted from the new law was not adopted at the meeting of the home labour body, unfortunately we will not support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u171	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u172	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear High Council, Minister of Finance, Secretary of State, welcome. In the Republic of Slovenia, the system of supply of goods and services is regulated by the Value Added Tax Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2007. Since then, this law has been amended several times to harmonise with European Union law and general changes in society. The New Value Added Tax Act, which we have, represents one of the three laws which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this year for admission, in view of changes in tax legislation. This law includes the transposition of several directives and thus the simplification of certain obligations for taxable persons in intra-Union trade or the sale of imported goods from third countries. The new rules also place European companies in the same position as third-country companies which did not need to be accounted for in accordance with the rules before July 2021. The bill or amendment of the law also follows a number of solutions related to the de-liberation of procedures. The main objectives of the bill are also linked to each other, as proposed solutions, and would point out, inter alia, the abolition of the 35,000 euro threshold for compulsory identification in the Republic of Slovenia as a country of consumption, the recognition of online platforms as a taxable person for the purpose of VAT, the change in the non-EU and EU VEM arrangements, changes in the VEM import arrangements where, among other changes, the abolition of VAT exemption to imports of consignments up to EUR 22 is also recognised. I would also point out that there is still a change in the specific arrangements for the management of international occasional road transport services for passengers. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act also follows the objectives of environmental policy and, in particular, administrative burdens and simplification. Let me also point out the introduction of the right to a 100 per cent deduction of VAT on electric vehicles up to EUR 80,000 and also a deduction for all spare parts. Then a change in the exercise of VAT deduction rights, after which a taxable person may apply a deduction already in the tax period during which the VAT accounting obligation also arose. The cancellation of the obligation to hand over the account to the customer where the customer will still be able to request the transfer of the account itself. Also, of course, the bill as such will still exist. Changes are also made in the identification of VAT taxable persons who are not established in the Republic of Slovenia and are VAT payers. Change in the content of the VAT bill in a way that gives greater flexibility to FURS when explaining a specific half of the VAT form. It would also highlight the abolition of the threshold for compulsory entry of farmers into the VAT system. Of course, there is also the possibility that farmers will voluntarily join or register with the VAT system. The obligation to notify in advance the application of certain VAT exemptions to persons who are not persons of public law is lifted and would also point out the suspension of the mandatory submission of the list of receipts and invoices issued in the first VAT account. And if I end up squirming. The New Value Added Tax Law brings simplification and relief in fulfilling tax obligations while, of course, following environmental policy objectives. In view of the above, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act in the Parliamentary Joint SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u174	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with one of the three laws that constitute the so-called tax reform as advertised by the Government. The bill is identical to what the National Assembly rejected in July but was re tabled by the coalition at the end of August. On 1 July, the deadline for transposition of the four directives and the regulation expired, and the coalition now recalls the penalties that could be imposed on us. But look at the fraction, she wrote in the law identical solutions as they were in the July proposal, so she did not look at the opposition's comments as to what was wrong in the previous proposal. This is difficult to understand given that they want the law to be adopted and one option is that they simply care and if they fail to do so, let the next Government deal with it, while the other is that they have made a more firm deal with their subcontractors in the National Assembly this time to press the "for" button. After the last session of the Committee on Finance, nothing can surprise us, but nothing can surprise us anymore. In the LMŠ, we advocate a package of treatment of tax reforms, as we are convinced that a broader social dialogue must be present for such root actions in existing social relations. The government didn't do it. Moreover, the proposal to amend tax legislation did not even come to the table of the Economic and Social Council, says another law that was not in line with the social partners. The Fiscal Council estimates that the overall tax reform poses an additional risk to the sustainability of public finances over the medium term. Most importantly, however, the country is expected to increase its debt cumulatively by between 4% and 14% of GDP due to all proposed tax changes. The damage to tax reform has also been pointed out by the European Commission in its evaluation of the budget plan for 2022. There are also no clear calculations in the new VAT law, how much less so will come into the budget. Also in tax reform [[?]] The government has not presented any calculations as to how much higher economic growth or how much higher consumption you expect, nor have you presented any additional measures to replace this deficit in the budget. Therefore, we cannot support such a proposal in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u175	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u176	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The same content law had already been introduced by the Government in the spring, within the framework of the tax law package. At that time, she failed to persuade all her supporters to support the legal text at first reading, so she re tabled it in August. Although the College adopted its proposal for an emergency procedure, the proposal waited until last week for the Committee to be considered, as the procedures were discussed with other proposals which also affected the tax area. A law setting out the rights and obligations of taxpayers is thus adopted only four days before the new year when it should enter into force. This is not compatible with the principles of the rule of law, but this ruling coalition does not disturb much. Most of the content of the law, according to the proposaler, is intended to transpose the amended European directives, which should already be in force in the middle of this year. Some key solutions, such as the abolition of non-taxation of low-value shipments from abroad, have been introduced by the Government by a regulation, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, constitutes a violation of Article 147 of the Constitution. The rulings also seem to have no problem with this, and the issuing of decrees without a legal basis is almost a constant practice of this government. The content of the proposal is also not limited to the transposition of European directives. Although to a lesser extent than in some other laws, the Government has also hidden tax discounts and changes to the rules that will in particular facilitate tax avoidance. Farmers will thus be allowed to withdraw from the VAT system and sellers will no longer have to issue invoices if the buyer does not explicitly require it. The biggest gift and at the same time the only one for which the Government can at least predict financial effects will be awarded to the owners of companies that can afford to buy an electric service car. They will not pay any more taxes for the purchase of high-priority electric cars from now on. Owners and managers will thus buy a prestigious service vehicle in a cheaper way. In the state budget, €4 and a half million will be lower annually and electricity vehicles will still be too expensive or too expensive for ordinary citizens. We do not oppose the harmonisation of the law with the European acquis in the Group of Social Democrats. In our opinion, however, further interventions into the tax system are unnecessary, especially after the ruling coalition has already broken down the other tax laws and added a number of discounts, but especially for the wealthier and better paid. While the temporary intervention in VAT could make people significantly easier to deal with energy darlings, the government did not propose this. Instead, it proposes only gifts for those who can easily afford them right now, while breaking down the bases on which taxes are based, this is a mandatory billing and VAT accounting. This can only result in lower tax revenues, but the misalignment of tax obligations with bureaucratic barriers continues. We therefore do not support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE DEBIROCRATION LEGISLATION, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Ivana Aha, pardon, Dr. Katji Triller Vrtovec, State Secretary from the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have a third consideration of the draft law on debarcation. With it, the government has prepared the first package of simplification of the business of individuals and the economy with the state administration. Simplifications relate to different social groups. They will benefit users of public services, economic operators, experts, sports coaches, farmers, cultural workers, officials and municipalities in their operations with the State. Simplifications relate to different areas. They include areas of internal affairs, public administration, justice, environment and space, sport and culture. All of this with the aim of eliminating administrative burdens that hinder the development potential of Slovenia. The draft law also significantly reduces the regulatory burden, as it repeals more than 200 laws and, on the basis of regulations issued under the law, which are no longer in force. This is the largest measure ever taken to cleanse and consolidate the Slovenian acquis. In the third reading, amendments by coalition groups to the transitional and final provisions of the draft law are tabled. The amendments are necessary for the adoption of the amendment to Article 44 of the draft law in second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. I also remind the President that, due to the amendment adopted in the second reading, Articles 43 and 44 of the draft law have become mutually inconsistent. Therefore, the Government is proposing a harmonisation amendment to Article 43. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u179	Thank you, too. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Blaž Pavlin has the word, which will present to us the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u180	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Head of the Strategic Council for Debarcation, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members. We are in New Slovenia, and we will be in favour of a successful Slovenia in Europe and the world in the future. We seek a competitive Slovenia, for which we need low taxes, simple procedures and an open economy. We advocate that as many people as possible pay taxes. If we simplify bureaucratic procedures, we would get a more effective public administration, for which we would need fewer officials. A good business environment is an environment in which entrepreneurs and workers feel good. The task of the state is to create conditions where citizens can create well-functioning businesses. Today, in the third reading, we have the first time in the history of independent Slovenia on the table of the Debirocratisation Act. We probably all agree that in Slovenia, reducing regulatory burdens and further improving the governance of public institutions remains a major challenge. In recent years, economic operators have highlighted, as one of the biggest obstacles to business, the overly bureaucratic and under-incentive business environment, in particular the longevity of certain procedures and the high tax burden of work. In Novi Slovenija we regret that the introduction of the so-called development cap no longer exists in this text of the Debirocratisation Act. They already have, if I am not mistaken, 17 Member States of the European Union, but if its withdrawal means that the law will be adopted today, we accept it. Even now, we are predicting that in Nova Slovenija we will continue to seek to narrow it down in Slovenia. As a result of strict public administration and incomprehensible laws and regulations, the Slovenian economy and citizens suffer. While the business environment has improved, there are still problems with the administrative and regulatory burdens that still hamper business. The regulatory burden in Slovenia is gradually decreasing, but in some areas it is still relatively high. The time needed to pay taxes in Slovenia decreased slightly, from 245 hours in 2018 to 233 hours in 2019. However, it is still high compared to the European Union average of 172 hours. By adopting this law, we will simplify procedures for citizens and citizens and simplify their lives. The law thus brings a wide variety of changes in various areas, such as facilitating electronic communication between officials and individuals, abolishing compulsory payment accounts with a credit card and linking records in the field of higher education. The law that we are considering today also repeals more than 200 laws that no longer apply. Of course, all sub-legislative provisions issued on their basis are repealed, and the law also provides for the cessation of the application of 18 federal Yugoslav laws. I am convinced that today's proposal for a law on debarcation, which will, of course, be supported by Members of New Slovenia, is only the first set of measures that will help to remove bureaucratic obstacles and will be followed by other sets of measures that will help to debirocraticize Slovenia and thus the people of a more friendly country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u181	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u182	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Our society is changing at the daily level against the will of many. This is also confirmed here in the National Assembly and today's agenda is no exception. The trampling of democratic standards and constitutional principles has, unfortunately, become a part of everyday life. The Coalition does not care about the arguments, they do not consider comments from the professional and interested public. Not even for the opinion of its own law enforcement service, but for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the time of consideration of the law, the latter presented 32 pages of reasons why the law is not appropriate and is in fact contrary to the Slovenian legal order. First of all, the Legislative and Legal Service has challenged the legislative approach. The law no longer permanently interferes with sectoral laws, and in the second part it provides for the termination of more than 200 laws. This is the so-called omnibus method of novelisation, which is exceptionally permissible if the conditions are met. The law on debarcation does not demonstrate such conditions. As a result, the limited mode of legislative regulation is also inappropriate, since most of the law is too incomplete and unclear. Such a way of amending legislation will only lead to a greater lack of transparency in the legal order, and in no way do we see debirocratisation in the SAB. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the bill constitutes an intervention in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power and thus a violation of the constitutional principle of the division of power. In the SAB party, like most of us, we agree that we have too many regulations and regulations. Laws are too often overly rigid and lifeless, sometimes too clear and imprecise. And things often get complicated where they really don't have to be complicated. All of this can be improved by debirocratisation or in other words by eliminating bureaucracy. But when we received the proposal for a law on debarcation, it was quickly clear to us that the government was fully interpreting the definition of the word debirocratisation. As we have already learned, social dialogue has also been missing from the consideration of the proposal. The exclusion of stakeholders is unacceptable, especially in the case of such important laws which interfere in several areas. The SAB is a well-managed legislative process in which all stakeholders are involved in a timely manner, as it is only in this way that we can adopt quality laws that will actually contribute to the better functioning of our country. The debate revolved around the disputed introduction of the Office of the Official Register. There is no doubt that this is an intervention in constitutional matter. Article 154 of the Constitution provides that the Regulation shall enter into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal. The mandatory legal source in the Republic of Slovenia is therefore the rules published in the Official Journal. In the SAB we do not see any need to establish an additional register. For the first time, because it is constitutionally controversial, and for the second time because the creation of an additional register will cost our country almost EUR 800,000. Simplification of administrative procedures is particularly important for the country, due mainly to the consequences it has on the functioning of the economy and the public sector. We are also aware of this in the SAB Group, and therefore our expectations were that the debirocratisation of one of the key points in the third Janša government would be high. But we're usually disappointed again. The contents of the law will have no effect on the removal of regulatory burdens and therefore have nothing to do with the title. In the SAB Group, we see too much deregulation and demoralisation instead of de-de-barcation rather than de-barcation, so we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u184	Once again, thank you for your word, Vice President. Honourable President of the Debarcation Council, Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on debarcation whose aim is to improve the state of affairs in Slovenia with regard to administrative barriers and a competitive business environment. It is undeniable that administrative obstacles slow the development of Slovenia at all levels. Complicated long-term procedures help us to make better use of all our potentials and, at the same time, needlessly burden public officials, who also run these procedures. While some see a problem in a high number or a large number of civil servants, the real problem is ineffective procedures, which, with many steps, increase the working processes of public sector employees in particular in the economy, so we will achieve a more prosperous country only by rounding up the digitisation of the country that will speed up the procedures, end the duplication of processes and allow public servants to devote their time exclusively to solving actual issues, not to additional bureaucratic procedures. The law, which is before us today with the aim of facilitating access to public services and eliminating certain administrative burdens of interference with a number of laws, will also repeal laws and regulations issued under law on their basis, which are simply no longer applicable. Until today's third reading, we have reached the point where we believe that the proposal for a law on debarcation through a number of compromises of amendments and additions could be part of a broader political consensus. However, it is a matter of reducing the administrative and regulatory burden in public administration and improving the efficiency of its business, which will make it easier for many citizens and citizens and economic operators to access public services. Among other things, there are simplifications regarding the registration of residence, the service of consignments in administrative proceedings, the certification of printed copies of decisions and a number of other amendments. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have already been committed in the past to removing administrative barriers and debirocratisation, thus establishing a more accessible and responsive public system. In the future, we are also working for the digital integration of all national authorities and the rationalisation of all regulations. We are convinced that the basic problem is the doubling of steps and that there is a need to ensure greater transparency in the functioning of national authorities. We put in first place measures and projects that will make it easier for citizens to obtain documents, consents and permits in all procedures in which they deal with the country. Projects are under way to establish a modern e-Identity that will enable citizens to have an easy digital relationship with national authorities. It will also be an important step for businesses to carry out an e-Identity project with all the data in one place, allowing businesses to submit reports more easily and to run for development funds. These projects will allow citizens, businesses and public servants to deal solely with content and development, but not with late administration. Special attention will be paid to the area of accommodation in the premises and construction of the buildings where much has been done with the e-space project. The continuation of digitisation with the e-mop project will continue to provide full protection of the natural environment, as it will automatically disable interventions that could put this at risk. In addition, the digitalisation of the area of space management will achieve full transparency and great acceleration of all procedures as it will eliminate the delay in taking one and the same steps in obtaining conditions, consents and permits. In the SMC Group, we therefore support today's proposal for a law on demobilization and will continue to seek solutions that will simplify the lives of citizens and businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u185	Thank you, too. The positions of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Strategic Council for Debarcation was established last year, on 19 May. The main task of this, with high expectations from the accompanying body, was to review legislation with a proposal to relax bureaucratic shackles. It will therefore be able to simplify the lives of citizens and simplify business operations and thus contribute to reducing costs and removing administrative barriers. Debirocratisation is one of the priorities of the executive branch of the Authority, focusing on electronic commerce and simplifying procedures in construction and spatial legislation and in the field of public procurement. In particular, the effects and advantages of the introduction of digitisation procedures are exposed. Bureaucratism is self-sufficient in individuality, ingenuity and flexibility, showing its special interest as a common and general one. Debirocratisation should therefore represent the abolition of such a system, such a way of governing it and a proposal for a law should therefore include only dry proposals to eliminate bureaucracy without any specific additions. In the original text of the law, the drafter did not pursue this objective, but he also tried to introduce matters that had nothing to do with de-de-irocratisation. Members of the Desus Group clearly opposed the introduction of a social cap and managed to achieve that the Government had introduced a legal text into the legislative procedure, which did not include this for the amount of the revenue of the State budget of an inappropriate proposal. In the general debate on the draft law, we have expressed some concerns, and we have been held back until the proposal for decisions by State secretaries instead of a certain issue now by ministers. This proposal is lined. In connection with the introduction of electronic heating methods and the establishment of electronic operating forms, we have pointed out the need for digitisation training of the older population. Today, the text of the law in this part is so complementary that this measure is introduced. However, the fact that many people do not yet have digital literacy is also taken into account, so the method of electronic commerce is not defined as the only and mandatory, but rather as a possibility, a possibility that will become an increasingly tangible reality in the coming years. The proposaler's argument in favour of the introduction of the new official register of the Republic of Slovenia has not convinced us even after further explanations. The fact is, in our country, all regulations are published in the Official Journal. An additional set of legal provisions, including case law and international acts, has been in place for many years. This is the legal and information system of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a publicly accessible and free state portal. Members of the Desus Group supported the amendment, which provided for the deletion of the official register at national level, while also providing for the establishment of a register of local community legal acts. In view of this, it will be the case that the single and coordinated publication of all acts issued by the institutions of local self-government will be carried out. We are aware that this work will not be easy to change some of the established customs. Most importantly, the adoption of the law will provide a basis for such work to begin at all. The provision on the social cap was therefore excluded from the original proposal for a law on demobilization. The proposal for today's third hearing, however, provides for a thorough modification of the provisions relating to the official register of the Republic of Slovenia, which we agree with. The Members of the Desus Group will therefore unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u187	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u188	Nice greetings again to everyone in the hall, especially the guests. On the table, we have a proposal for a law on debarcation in the final third reading. In the dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, the term "debirocratisation" means the elimination of bureaucracy. The law will finally take the first essential step towards facilitating the lives of our citizens and citizens, at the same time towards a more favourable economic environment. The fact that we cannot go through is that we have too many laws in Slovenia, depending on the smallness, where ballast is certainly unnecessary, because many Slovenians are causing only confusion, chaos and disappointment. After many years, it is just the right time to undo what is useless and no longer valid. In fact, our laws, regulations, acts must be transparent, clear and, above all, understandable to all our citizens. That's the whole point. In our country, we urgently need such a law on debarcation, despite the fact that certain stakeholders are not exactly written on the skin, but nothing about it. People are suffocating enough, so they want as little administration as possible, paperwork, because they are living in an age of digitisation, where everything is more or less available online. It can no longer happen that a doctor deals with writing in a computer instead of listening to the patient and his health problems, because we are living people, not robots. The current situation in Slovenia must urgently be improved by simplifying the lives of our citizens, farmers, officials, experts, sports coaches, cultural workers and municipalities in the business with the country. In short, we need to make it easier for people to have access to public services when, say, they go to the congregation or the administrative unit or anywhere else. We must also put an end to unnecessary administrations in dealing with the country in order to increase the competitiveness of our economy, which will improve the standard of living for many Slovenians. If we look back a little bit, the law in the past received a lot of comments, a criticism, so it was, the original spring version was also withdrawn. Now we have reached the last third reading, and in the Slovenian National Party we hope that things will come to life as soon as possible in practice. We have been engaged in quite a few heated debates, debates during the hearings, as certain parliamentary groups on the left side of the House of Democracy have become circumcised in the event of electronic service. They were wondering about security, the possibility of intrusion, as if they didn't know that someone could hack into your physical mailbox and pick up your mail. Many Slovenes will also be pleased to see that the population register will be supplemented by an electronic address and a mobile number, despite the fact that several rural people do not have their mobile phone because they do not need it. Old school. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this is not a bad solution, as it will allow for faster, more effective contact of officials with individual citizens. In practice, we note that, unfortunately, it is often so that, especially in health care, they do not call on stationary phones, but they are still more accessible to e-mails. Unfortunately, we live in the time of the epidemic, when personal contacts, the conversations set aside an exception rather than a rule, which grieves us. We have to keep up with the Slovenians. We don't have any other time. It is essential that people are aware and informed of the laws that concern them in a simple, laity way, and that our media is aware of in good light. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u189	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. In Slovenia we are known for a number of administrative obstacles, despite the fact that since 2004 we have been working more or less successfully through the Ministry of Public Administration's administrative barriers. Citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers, all in the field of administrative burdens are united – administrative barriers are too high and licensing procedures take too long. Also on a number of competitiveness scales, economic freedom scales Slovenia is making cities worse due mainly to excessive regulation, too many regulations and too long procedures. Of course, the law before us doesn't save everything. But it is a step in the direction that we must continue. Only less burdensome legislation can improve the competitiveness of the economy and improve the standard of citizens. The law consists of two parts. In the first part there are substantive simplifications and in the second part there are the terminations of laws and their non-applicable sub-legislative acts. Contentual simplifications relate to a number of laws. Let me just point out some. In order to enable the speedier and more efficient operation of officials with individuals, data on mobile numbers and e-mail addresses are added to the Residence Registration Act and the Central Population Register Act. Both data will be transmitted voluntarily by the citizen. Simplification of the service of documents or acts issued by the State Administration, which will take place in place of regular mail at an e-mail address linked to a telephone number, of course, provided that the individual decides to do so. Of course, it will be a voluntary choice. The stamp and the writing of the date shall be removed with the word on the hotline and the notification of the consignment sent shall also be possible via an SMS message. In tax procedures, it is possible that the taxable person himself is not all members of the agrarian community. The time limit for acceptance of the offer for the sale of agricultural land shall be reduced. And I could count it. While many good proposals have stopped during the coordination process during the preparation period, some good proposals have also been excluded from the course of the procedure in the National Assembly, which we regret, of course. There has been a lot of criticism and elevated dust, especially because of the so-called Social caps, which would mean that salaries over €6,000 would be grossly exempt from higher social security contributions. We were only talking about contributions. An individual would still pay the income above that amount. This arrangement has 17 countries in the European Union, and a change would allow top experts to stay in Slovenia or be able to attract someone back to work. But more than obvious at this point in Slovenia there is no listening to these individuals and, as with other content, there have been many deceptions here. In the second part of the law, a number of laws and related acts are repealed, which we no longer apply. In Slovenia we have as many as 6,000 700 laws, of which more than 40% are invalid. We have about 45,000 sub-legal acts, nearly 38% of which are invalid. All of this is extremely imprudent for citizens. This law thus establishes a more transparent system. This law is a beginning and is the right path for de-de-irocraticisation of the country, so we will, of course, support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u191	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u192	Hall of Fame, Vice President. Respected and respected, in the LMŠ we have assessed throughout the legislative process that the Debarcation Act is so bad that it would be very difficult to improve it with anything. This was also known by the proposer himself, since he had said so by withdrawing the provisions and by withdrawing the whole law from the procedure by hiding from the profession, the interested public even before their own government law service. Even here in the National Assembly, the ministries did not find words of support for him, which is not surprising, since we almost did not participate in the creation. The only presentation took place within the Strategic Council for Debarcation, which means, in other words, that those who wrote the law presented it to themselves. Debirocratization touches the law more or less only on the title; everything else is more a collection of some reminders that designers have tried to translate into marriage. We ask where the lives of citizens will be facilitated, how you will improve the business environment and the competitiveness of the economy, how the country will act more kindly with its services for citizens. In LMŠ, we are convinced that at this moment this Government would do the most to debarctify itself by going after itself to look at all the legal ballast that it has drawn in 10 anti-Korona laws and by allowing its own lawyers to comb through this legal mess, including a bunch of decisions among which we find a series of unconstitutional and this would be a step towards the real debarcation of society. And if the law is so bad that it can't be improved we wanted to do at least less harm, so in the LMŠ we prepared an amendment with the support of the opposition partners to eliminate nothing serving the official register of regulations as a parallel Official Gazette. In order not to let us know that we know just how to delete, we have prepared a solution, which, unlike many in this law, goes to people and makes life easier for them. Because the municipalities warned us how necessary and for all citizens it would be welcome to have a comprehensive and transparent register of copies of local communities and we have listened to the municipalities in LMŠ. In addition to all other regulations, they would also introduce municipal spatial acts, including graphic representations, since accessibility to this material is made difficult many times because of the dispersion of different ways of publishing for people, so that I do not say almost impossible. With the systematic regulation of the Register of Local Community Regulations, we will make it significantly easier for citizens to access content that literally tailors our daily lives, and this proposal of the LMŠ has been given a parliamentary majority so instead of an official register of state rules to which access is already regulated in one way or another and would mean not only duplication, but also more red tape instead of a register of regulations of local communities that means debarcation and goes towards people. The law, due to the installation of this register, is slightly less harmful, and the feeling is good because we will do something for the congregations or for every citizen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, thank you for your input. The government says that the proposal of the Debarocatisation Act aims to strengthen respect for the principles of legal certainty, the protection of trust in the law, the public and the specificity of the rules, and also strengthen the rule of law. Is that true? In the nine PKPs, we have also just concluded the debate on the 10th and the Rocohitrian in our view unacceptable interference in dozens of laws after all the peripetions concerning the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, attacks on the judiciary, degradation of public institutions, etc., we apologize for the seriousness and follow-up of these objectives. We were opposed to the conclusion that the law was a suitable basis for further consideration, and with the amendments on the home working body, together with the opposition's members, we tried to correct and improve the matter. Unfortunately, our capture was minimal, so we opposed the law. We will also oppose the proposed Debarcation Act in the third reading. Among other things, the government wants to include an e-mail address and a telephone number in the central register of the population. Of course, we will hear that residents can, or if they want, also provide the central registry with an address and a telephone number, but according to the trend and experience that people have experienced lately, what is today voluntary, can become mandatory tomorrow, of course, telephone directories are becoming cheaper. Probably because more and more people do not want to have public telephone numbers because they no longer trust the rulings and no longer trust the state. We received a letter from the President of the Government's coffee shop a few days ago, a letter that excited a lot of people who apologized for asking whether it might have been a misuse of personal data from the central registrar, perhaps an abuse from another record. All this, of course, casts an additional shadow of doubt also on the proposal for a law on demobilization. We will vote against the Social Democrats. Against the law because the bill is not debirocratic and opens up opportunities for abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! One of the main arguments for the drafting of this law, the advertising spot of the coalition, which is being shown as a battle against the country's liberalisation, is that a large number of regulations constitute a key bureaucratic obstacle that complicates the lives of businesses and citizens. This is an argument by the Government, which has already adopted more than 80 laws and 750 sub-legislative rules since the takeover of power, in which there are various administrative obstacles and even violations of the Constitution and human rights which cause many to agree to the Constitutional Court. The chaos is the order to be understood, once written by the Nobel laureate Saramago. This reasoning is clearly followed by the government of Janez Janša. Chaos is the way to rule that coalition. At this point, there is virtually no person who would know exactly what measures apply which are not, which are extended and so on. Including the Prime Minister, not every subsequent anti-korona law or the Debirocratisation Act only makes the situation worse. In short, the proposal before us and prepared by the Government in silence over the established procedures, past the Rules of Procedure of the Government as it is becoming a fugitive practice of this autonomously inspired authority, is a pure pretext for justifying the existence of the Simic Strategic Council. By this law, the government of Janez Janša sells the invented anti-biocratic image of the effectiveness of the well-founded government, image, fiction, piarian Christmas. In fact, the aim of this purpose of the law is to turn the legal order of Slovenia upside down. Such omnibus laws are directly ideal for introducing impossibility and confusion. This is exactly what Janšev’s Government does all the time with anti-Korona packages with which calm souls interfere in a series of other regulations and thus deliberately create chaos, as I explained in the introduction. The Debarcation Act is thus intended to clarify legal uncertainties at one time and to determine the termination of non-applicable legal provisions. Supposedly, but the fact is that this marriage is full of nonsense, the cities are even constitutionally disputed and, above all, it is bad. Article 22, for example, establishes the fictitiousness of the service of documents by reducing the protection of the party's procedural rights. It will be harder to determine when the document was served, which, of course, affects the deadlines. At a time when cyber security is alpha and omega business, Simic's debarcation reform would introduce the service of official documents by zero ordinary e-mail, which is about as safe as sending us a letter to the mailbox. A voluntary decision for such an approach up or down. The protection of the party's procedural rights is not demeaning if you are not the government of Janez Janša, of course. Here is an official register of regulations from the Official Gazette, which will cost us €780 000. A thousand minimum net wages for the service we already have. This law is constitutionally controversial, harmful and financially burdensome for the country. There's not much to do with debirocraticism. The law interferes with the content of the sectoral laws, which are normally taken care of by the competent ministries and which in an inadequate manner repeals the rules which are no longer applicable in the Slovenian legal order. The 32 pages of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the silence of representatives and representatives of ministries on the competent home body shall state all. With such nonsense and constitutional disputes, you can only keep your mouth shut. We're going to vote against it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u197	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out pursuant to Article 140(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! Initially, I would just like to say that this law, which is somehow expected and a speech, was also today as a magic wand to solve some of the problems of overriding, not debirocracy. That means shutting down the Department's offices or anything, but some of the problems that bring us overriding do not bring us this. There's no magic wand like that, and I'm pretty sure with some kind of law, it can't be changed. That is why the law has also undergone some changes, and this 59th article has gone into some changes, and all further articles that I will not continue to comment on are intended to settle some of the issues that have been raised. Therefore, the ambition of such a law is also too great in view of the comments made when we look at it from the Legislative and Legal Service. It just doesn't work. At European level, in 2005, one other direction was taken, and a commission was set up to reduce bureaucratic barriers, not debirocratisation, but to reduce bureaucratic barriers, which is a more correct term. European Commission President Barroso said: our creativity under the bonds of bureaucratic barriers is the best way to achieve ambitious economic and social goals and the quality life of our citizens. [[Incomprehensible]] The first government of Janez Janša also adopted a programme of measures to remove administrative barriers. In 2009, a resolution on normative activities and a programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative barriers by 25% by 2012 was also adopted, which was long overdue. [[Incomprehensible]] In 2014, the Stop bureaucracy website was launched, as well as a single set of measures for a better regulatory and business environment. In 2018 e-democracy is an e-democracy and every year also a report on the implementation of a single set of measures. In the short term, we are adopting without 30 to 60 days of public debate, as the infringement counter shows, 70 % of the rules and laws are adopted. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, there's that obstacle. Sub [[?]] These measures would go and then, because this law can't actually solve it, we've seen the whole time, the whole process. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. We can't solve a whole set of rules with one law. The whole system needs to be cleaned, monitored, prepared and prepared in a way that is quality-prepared and then we will not have these measures. But if we take things quickly, like we do now, it triggers a bunch of administrative obstacles, measures, people don't understand what's going on, how it is, and that's why I don't believe in this law and I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 60 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 61 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 62 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments that will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 91st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 17.33.) (The sitting resumed at 18.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u200	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19 in the context of the emergency flow. We continue with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27 December 2021, published on the e-club. Article 1 [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you so much for the heads-up. By Article 1, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of the non-aligned groups of Members and the LMŠ to the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to Article 1(1). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to this Article under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted and if the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia, SMC to Article 1 is not adopted under Article 2, this amendment becomes irrelevant. The amendment is also substantively linked to the amendment of the same motion for a new Chapter 8a - Temporary measures in the field of sport. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. (For the vote was 37.)(against 42.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to Article 1(2). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new paragraphs 17 and 40th. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 43. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 14. (The vote was 46.)(against 14.) I understand the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia, SMC to Article 1 under Article 2 was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 1 under Article 3 became irrelevant. We are moving on to the decision of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 5. We're voting. Breakup. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u201	Thank you, President, for your word. Now, in this Article, in the opposition, we propose that the second paragraph of Article 104 be amended to allow the Minister to decide on the implementation of distance education, of course, but a decision on the implementation of distance education can be taken if other measures are also taken unanimously to prevent the spread of Covid-19, which prevents mass contacts between people and which have a comparable or even less intense impact on human rights. And then this decision is checked every 14 days. To put it domestically, if in the coalition you truly believe what your spineless minister says that schools will close last and open first, then there is no reason not to support this amendment. Why? Also because when the inn was open and the churches were open and the schools were closed, of course, it seemed to me not to say invaluable harm to our children and to generations and generations, so we propose that this amendment be supported as well. We'll support him at LMSH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u202	Anyone else want an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? I guess not. I suggest we vote. The procedure is under way. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 7. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the vote for a new 10.b Article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the LMŠ and SD parliamentary groups for a new Article 10.b. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Chapter 4b and Article 12b. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB to Chapter 4b and Article 12. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 46. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 1 have not been adopted, the amendments of the same motion for a new 8a chapter for a new 20a Article and for a new 20b Article have become irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 22. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to Article 22.a. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same candidate for Article 22aa and, if this amendment is not adopted, becomes irrelevant. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. The vote was 45 to 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to the new article 22a.a. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes to 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to chapter 7. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 33. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31 to 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SAB Group to Chapter 7 has not been adopted, it has become an amendment to Article 33. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to Article 35. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes to 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and Non-Aligned Members to Article 11a and Article 40a. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party shall become irrelevant to Article 40a. We're voting. Voting adjournment. Explanation of the vote, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Möderndorfer, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u203	In fact, we have before us an amendment that speaks and solves what is really, members of the coalition have cooked with a proposal to raise medical wages. Not to be misunderstood, I personally don't mind if doctors get paid up, but not in the way they thought they'd raise themselves just medical elites who are in the highest pay grade, and they're not getting up in any way to all the others who, by the way, are the worst placed in the first row. Remember the first crisis that took place in the beginning. Who was in the front lines? Young specialists, young doctors. These elders withdrew because they were too exposed, we had not yet had the vaccine, so that they would not be infected, because the course was very severe for older and older doctors, those who are now lifting their wages, were in the last kinds of their medical colleagues. Secondly, what's more important than that is that you have intervened with this proposal in the systematic resolution of the entire group in the health field, which means that you should solve not only the problems of medical salaries but also all those who work in the health sector, including those who are not doctors, including those who are in the same level of education structure and those who are of course carrying the left hand share, from graduate nurses, medical technicians, paramedics and everyone else, in this pyramid and, by the way, the coalition, you have done it in this way that you have written a change in every case, later today, we have heard the Secretary of State, saying that this will be resolved by a social agreement. Then why do we need this in the marriage if you're saying it's going to apply because someone wants to secure a backup just in case? If these negotiations don't go the way they imagined, and what's the worst thing they do is temporarily for one year, then what happens, then in a year? Are we gonna put them back on the old system? Please. You're making fun of everyone. From the doctors, from us, and from the whole system. Shame on you. I will support this amendment to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u205	The higher wages are earned by everyone, not just the pay elite. If wages rise by 25 percent, why doesn't a cleaning lady in the hospital get paid, why doesn't she pick up a professor at the university or a scientist at the Joseph Stephen Institute? But if only the wage elites are raised, it's like we've forgotten. In the last 15 years, the number of doctors in public hospitals has increased by almost 50 percent, the number of nurses by 35, and the number of doctors in primary health care has increased by only 13 percent. By the way, we are not helping doctors in primary health care who are underpaid, not helping young doctors, young specialists, only helping pay elites, and again wondering how to make money that is not expected to increase. To re-emphasize in the last 15 years almost plus 50 percent of the number of doctors in state hospitals, and what happened to waiting species? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, chairman. In this country, we have a quarter of a million people living below the poverty line. We have 22 wage classes only in the public sector, which are below the minimum wage level and we have two thirds of all workers and workers who do not reach the average wage. And to whom did she choose to raise the present government of John Janša? The most paid representatives of the medical lobby. Those who regularly fall on the 50 most paid civil servants. Last time, there were 46 doctors on this scale who are already paying up to €15 000. Those who have collected up to €80,000 in the last epidemic of supplements. Those medical lobbyists who deliberately and consciously create waiting periods as doctors of the amphibians who privatise the public health system, who have deliberately called for specialization in the past in a way that they have secured their position today, and we all claim that we do not have the necessary specialists. Exactly these people, this very few representatives of the medical lobby, are now being rewarded by the Government with a raise of additional euros to their already high salaries. The pay recorder of the one I mentioned before will know an extra thousand euros each month. It is absolutely unacceptable, so we have prepared an amendment to propose that payments be raised within the healthcare system or within the medical system to those who, together, can be found to be underpaid doctors of beginners and other medical personnel with lower wages. Otherwise, we need to know that within the medical profession, wages are still quite good for those who have lower wages in view of the situation in Slovenia. What we should really do is stretch the entire salary scale starting with those lowest wages. How do we do that? So that the basic salary that is now, in some cases, below the minimum wage level, is equal to this minimum wage or, as the old union code of the enka goes, is minimal. In this way, we can ensure a fair and fair raise for each worker regardless of whether it is an employee in the home of older citizens, in the economy, elsewhere in the public sector. Unfortunately, this is not on the timetable of the Government of Janez Janša, but unfortunately this is not in PKP 10, but I think that this requirement, the enka is minimal, should find a place of honor in the next coalition contract, because after the trauma of John Janša it pays people to show how and why they can do otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? Because I find that no, we vote. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 40a of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to the new 40.a. The amendment of the same proposal to Chapter 15 and Article 40f is linked to the amendment. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of voice. The fallout on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman. With this amendment and with the one actually adopted on the committee, you have shown extreme political opportunism and politics in the worst sense of the word. This is also today's catastrophic anti-Korona package. This opportunism is best known when you knock on your chest. Two months ago, no solution could be found for firefighters in professional core voluntary societies. This is illegal, this needs to be resolved systematically, the negotiations are under way you talked about, although these firefighters are not part of a collective contract for the public sector, this cannot be covered by the Ministry of Finance. We have heard all of this from the government and from the coalition Members, who were more or less silent, have not advocated at all. And you voted against it. Why? Because we proposed this in the opposition. It's simple and transparent. In six or seven articles. And now, given your discussions, you should even be grateful. Shame on you. Since you were against it, we must be grateful. And since you have shown mercy in putting this content exactly in this marriage, we must be grateful to you now. You had this opportunity, and you didn't take advantage of it, and today you're pointing your finger at those of us who fought to finally solve this issue. Why? Only for one reason that you can point your finger again, but you know, in the LMŠ of this amendment we will not oppose it, but we will oppose the package because one good thing does not weigh off the entire sea and a bunch of catastrophic, devastating, dangerous. And you can nod, pal, shame on you, the one who nods the most. I'll be easy against you because you're uncreditable, misleading and lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u210	Dear colleague Pavšič, I ask you to respect the Code and no offense. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB to Chapter 11b and Article 40b. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 40.c. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 26. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to chapter 15. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 40.f. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer shall become irrelevant to Article 40.f. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 40.f. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to new Chapters 17 and 40th. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 41. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 45. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 14. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to sub-chapter 1A. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 46a under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this Article shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u211	Good-bye. See, Slovenia, as part of the European Union, is in an energy crisis and is felt by many citizens and the economy. Natural gas prices have skyrocketed and consumers feel what they are really feeling. Thus, the three - and - a - half - cent [3.5 - cent] kilowatt kilowatts of natural gas were undermined, and even new promotions were announced with the new year. Energy, such as fuel oil, electricity, and electricity, are being irritated, but many traders have stopped selling electricity. As a result, many customers will be forced to switch to the emergency supply system with a 400% higher heating price as a result of the new year. In view of the fact that about half of this year's untapped vouchers and last year's untapped vouchers are also used, we can rightly conclude that these vouchers are untapped in people who are still unable to afford a holiday or lunch at the inn due to heating needs. And now that this gem is present, it is right that these unused vouchers can also be used to pay for energy, that is, natural gas, oil, electricity and other resources. We therefore propose that this be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 46. (The vote was 41.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 46a under Article 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 46.d. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Tina Heferle Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Now, this amendment of the coalition shows all their insolence in its operation from day to day. It is about introducing a new repressive provision into the article today, without anyone explaining what is really going on. Even more, they wanted to cover up the whole article, which consists of as many as eight paragraphs, they copied and inter alia added a new paragraph setting out a new fine of between 200 and 600 euros for citizens who would commit an offence in the use of vouchers. This is a way of showing some mode of operation or way of working this coalition when repressive provisions are constantly trying to return to the legal text in a subtle, subtle way. Moreover, if we read the explanation of this amendment, which sets out this new fine, for our citizens, it only writes and only this, I quote, “the comments of the ZPS” are taken into account, the Legislative and Legal Services. I went to see if there were any of those comments. Not in writing or in oral form. I went to look at the magnetogram from the Finance Committee, where you discussed this article, which you have tabled today, too, this controversial amendment. In any case, not in writing or in oral form, so the Legislative and Legal Service did not talk about any new forms of fines for our citizens, not even EUR 600 and so on. In short, you're inciting re-repression. And even though it would be worth considering in this direction that anyone being punished who would maliciously want to use tourist vouchers, the way you go is that you are very sloppily and secretly introducing new repression into our legislation is unacceptable. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and unacceptable. And then you wonder why people don't trust you. You're wondering why people outside our house are protesting. Just because you put your mistrust in our society, by your actions you show your insolence at the expense of our citizens and their finances. In the LMŠ of this amendment to re-create someone [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Additional repression, again punitive punishment for our citizens, of course we will not support it. And we condemn the way that this coalition affords it, so there is no place for insolence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič on behalf of the parliamentary group? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u215	I mean, this, but do you even know anything other than inventing new and new ways to deepen citizens and citizens? That's all I'm gonna say. Shame, shame, shame. And, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 42. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC to sub-headings 1C and 46c. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 53. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u217	Have a nice hello again. See, in order to improve the social security of low-income users, we want the payment of the solidarity allowance to those pensioners who have a higher pension than EUR 712. We find it unfair that someone who has a pension greater than 712.0 euros does not get, does not get, does not get an allowance. Someone who's got an exact cent will get it. We have therefore proposed that those who have one euro or one cent higher pension to receive the 130 euro solidarity allowance. And it seems fair to us, because if we look at all the supplements that were paid this year, then we can see that because of one cent, some pensioners were deprived of almost 400 euros. And that seems unfair to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a decision-making amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 55. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the legislative amendments of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 56. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the legislative amendments of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 69. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] We understand that the amendment has been adopted. As the amendment of the non-aligned groups of Members and the LMŠ to the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal for a new Chapter 8a of the provisional measures in the field of education has become irrelevant. We move on to the amendments decided on by the LMŠ Group Members; Left and Sab to Chapter 10 and Article 71a under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment shall become the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC and the amendment of the Left Group of Ambassadors under the headings 2 and 3. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move on to the proposed amendment of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to 71.a. under number 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups to Article 71a to Article 2 has been adopted, the amendment of the Left Group to this Article has become irrelevant. We are moving on to the amendments decided on by the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and Non-aligned Members for Chapter 11 of the provisional measures in the tax area. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new 71.b to 71.e. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment was not accepted. Since the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Related Members to Chapter 11 — The provisional measures in the tax area have not been adopted; the amendment of the same proposal for the new 71.b., 71.c., 71.c., 71.d. and 71.e. has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that, in the second reading, the assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 7, 22a for the new Articles 22a, 35a for the new 40a.a., Article 40a to Chapter 15, Article 40f for the new Articles 17 and 40h, Article 41a, Article 46a, Article 46b, Article 55, Article 46c and Article 46c.c. Article 69, 71a of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Andrei Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u219	Yes, thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the PKP-10 law in the LMŠ. Firstly, since the law once again found contentious articles which are not of an intervention nature or which are not related to the Covid crisis, because the law is not adopted again with neither professional nor social dialogue nor even in the light that in the PKP-10 with one amendment, in one stroke, the Government is amending the Law on the System of Public Wages and demolishing the whole salary system and has in fact raised the salaries of one third of the doctors who have already been paid, and has forgotten about young doctors. This is what you are currently buying peace, even at the price of destroying the entire wage system in the public sector. The law also regulates measures that would apply if an epidemic, such as the fixing of work over working hours without rest, were declared. This violates all labour law and, last but not least, human rights, as the trade unions and the Legal and Legislative Service point out. And why don't you declare an epidemic if you're still saving lives with the PKP, as you heard from the Minister of Finance today? We have not received an answer to this question, but it is clear in which bush the rabbit is concerned. In a public financial hole. The government doesn't have the money. And if I finally add that this way of enacting laws creates legal confusion, intransigence, and that you are going to legal hooliganism, we cannot support such a law in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, chairman. Any serious government would need to take maybe one anti-korona package, maybe two anti-korona packages, but it would stop there. Why? Because of the fact that it would consider what measures are needed at the time of the outbreak, it has designed them in some permanent way, which can then take us through the Covid-19 waves, no matter how many of these waves are picked up. But no, not in the Republic of Slovenia, not under the government of Janez Janša where the National Assembly is just considering or going to vote on the 10th antikron package. It is only the fact that we have had ten PKP packages witness that the government acknowledges that before that it has made at least nine mistakes, errors that need to be constantly corrected from the PKP to the PKP from month to month. Once in, there's a set-up like this, and the second time it's going down into that vulnerable group, and this time it's no different. One of the measures the government is so pleased with is the payment of solidarity allowances for pensioners; this initiative has been included in the CAP10 for the third time. But for the third time, these supplements will be paid unfairly. They will not be charged according to what kind of pension someone really receives, but after some groups, according to some drawers, so it may be possible that someone with 510 euros in pension will receive 300 euros in solidarity allowance, someone else with only 1 euro in pension and 511 euros in pension will receive 70 euros in allowances less. Right? Such a fair sharing of cakes through John continues in other forms of the solidarity supplement and in other endangered groups. It forgets about students, forgets about the unemployed, deliberately excludes working persons with disabilities from the PKP10 and its solidarity allowances. Only those with disabilities who are unemployed will be eligible for aid, and we know that poverty is also affected by those who are employed for limited working hours, half-time and so on. For all these reasons, you can imagine that we will not support the PKP10 in Levica. Also because it interferes with the salary system of public servants, solely and exclusively in order to reward the most privileged part of the medical insurance lobby with additional public funds, while forgetting those to whom it refers, they are beginners. Just as we have seen in the past, promotions for health and care workers, which were not received because their basic salaries were placed below the minimum wage level.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u222	The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u223	Thank you very much. This law, which shortens the PKP10, is supposed to be adopted in an emergency procedure and in a manner that you have chosen because measures that are supposed to mitigate the consequences of an epidemic that is not at all. These measures are intended to mitigate the consequences of an epidemic that is not. We haven't been able to figure out why you didn't declare the outbreak today. We can only think. But it's ironic to mitigate the consequences of something that isn't at all. Second, the way this law was adopted is very similar to that of the previous ones or one of the previous ones. With this you started in 2012, his name was ZUJF, and unfortunately the way this CAP is accepted is exactly the same. There's a whole bunch of hoodlums in this marriage. You're taking him into force. On the opposition's committee, because of the procedures you have enforced, you have adopted a law without any discussion and a law with 240 million financial effects is not adopted in such a way, respected colleagues and colleagues. The solidarity allowance for pensioners was mentioned, which is what we support in our party. But the difference between a pensioner with a pension of €714 and one who receives €714 and 1 cent is €390. And you're not going to say that the one with 714 Euros and one cents is so much colder or that it's so much more hungry. And this is the wrong way for you, so we have proposed a solution, which, of course, you have rejected. Because of everything that is said in our party to this CAP 10, of course we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Khan on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u225	Yes, personally, I thought that we would end this year and in the Group of Members, otherwise this year, so that we would end up a little early and try to go a little bit more undisturbed next year, and you seem to fail this time. We have a law on the table, a tenth in a row that is supposed to solve people's problems, institutions, economies in the Covid crisis. I must tell you that except that you have spent a lot of money, which, of course, did not achieve the right goals, what else in these laws I absolutely do not see. But I know something. We have a super electoral year ahead of us, and we need to talk to a bunch of people and make it cost as much as it costs. This marriage, if you remember a few days ago, we adopted it on the Finance Committee. On this committee, you have clearly stated that you will not comply with the Legislative and Legal Service, that you will not comply with the rules of the game, that some amendments should not be made in relation to the Rules of Procedure on this law and you have mainly waved with your hand and said that you will no longer speak to us in the opposition. That's why today we have some articles inside, which, of course, don't fit in this law, you've awarded only those doctors who already have a 57th grade and will now have a 63rd grade, you've rewarded once again one group of people because you know that they go to elections and are the most numerous, but you've forgotten about students, what the predecessors have said, you've forgotten about some companies, companies that have absolute problems at that time, if we're talking only the meeting industry, we're closing down in Slovenia today, and none of these gentlemen are going to have anything, but you've distributed the money you think they're going to elect you. As a result, we cannot support such a law in the Social Democrats and will for the first time vote against it in some way. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how much money in these PKPs have you already spent on relatively little impact? All of this will be people, all of this will be people, taxpayers will unfortunately be able to pay and pay especially those who have little. So, I must say, as far as this is concerned, I am disappointed. We cannot support the social democrats of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Janja Slug has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u227	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Yeah, actually, it's been said a lot. I must say that we have also followed the forecast of the new PKP package in a calm manner in our parliamentary group. Why? Because we were thinking in the direction that it was already in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and nine so much nonsense and so many set-ups that now there is really nothing very critical about the tenth package. But it's still there. And as was said, there is no epidemic. There are no measures. At least not those with tails and heads and for whom at least some people could understand why they were adopted and what the goals are. You're taking action from tomorrow, a little bit about it, but you don't really have the courage to face people, to tell them what the situation is and to contain epidemics as some responsible government is expected to. Once again, the law is adopted by emergency procedure because it is supposed to save lives. I don't really see inside these contents of this goal. However, the measures already proposed and introduced by the opposition into the legislative procedure in the meantime are identical. So regulating the situation of those firefighters who were previously overlooked, regulating the extension of tourist vouchers, regulating the legal basis for the adoption of Covid's measures, all of which, in the meantime, with legislative proposals, have already been tabled by the opposition, not by an urgent procedure, you have opposed all of this. Now you're bringing it in from some prestige. And if this is controlling the epidemic, then I don't know what the epidemic really is for you. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The most controversial issue, the collapse of the wage system in the public sector, is the most controversial for us because it is the most elegant of course problem to move from the table and actually solve it on the shoulders of the future government. What she's going to do, how she's going to solve it, of course, you're not interested right now. You have given, given, given, given. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Duck on behalf of [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] In my own name, yes, I wanted to say. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u229	Yes, thank you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u230	Excuse me, excuse me. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u231	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. We will now support the PKP 10 proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that this law is appropriate and that, I would say, the things they save are also right and effective. Undoubtedly accepted packages from 1 to 9 antikronically speak of the figures that Slovenia today has the least unemployment, that Slovenia has one of the highest economic growth among the European Union countries. And all of this is the fruit of the PKP from 1 to 9. We are convinced that PKP 10 is solving problems such as tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, preserving jobs and maintaining a functioning economy. It should also be pointed out that on the Committee on Finance we have supported 5 probably the most pressing amendments proposed by the opposition. I am sure that with solutions such as tourist vouchers, many restaurants or a variety of catering establishments have been preserved. Now, what my colleague Han used to say, I don't know that we're closing down any inn. This government has always tried, I would say, to find some balance between the measures and the functioning economy. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a way of working is appropriate. But no doubt the results and the numbers also speak about it. Above all, the difference between this and previous governments is that this government works for people. All these packages from 1 to 9, including the 10th package, the money's for people, the money's for, I'd say, the most vulnerable groups. On the other hand, I would say it is maintaining a functioning economy, maintaining jobs and strengthening health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u232	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support this law, as we now refer to it as PKP 10. We've supported all the aid packages so far. And the responses from the real world are such that these packages acted to be effective. And, of course, thanks mainly to the hardworking population, resourceful businessmen today have record high employment, record high economic growth, good credit ratings, minimum social exclusion and so on and so on. We can be pleased here. The National Assembly is the one who has adopted aid packages in this health crisis so far. We find it difficult to accept flat-rate criticisms and numbers that are wrong. Like, number 714 doesn't even exist in the marriage. And so on and so forth. Of course, it is financed from this quarter of a billion, insofar as this law is financially difficult, it is also financed by testing. Take a look at the state's daily cost of testing. And it is right that people are being tested, even better that they are being vaccinated, which would be significantly more effective and, of course, less wasteful in terms of the cost of the country. It was already said who would be involved in this help. We were aiming for the most vulnerable, almost anyone to be released. No marriage is ideal, and it's not ideal. But I think that we were optimally targeting and actually trying to help people, those on the social side. And I believe that this will help them, even if there is some €10 to come to them. And people are grateful, the economy is grateful. And this is what gives us with some hope that this may be the last aid package for people and the economy, and that we will soon be able to really breathe with both wings of the lungs and soon get rid of this health crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič on behalf of the SMC Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Vice President. We will also make a proposal in our parliamentary group. Ten. The PKP or the anti-Korona marriage package were supported. Why? Because, according to our assessment, it effectively and successfully targets the goal. The goal is to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic. Whether it is formally declared or not, the consequences for the functioning of the company and the economy are here and there. The burden of this coronary pandemic is unevenly distributed, and this law, in its tenth order, has been pursuing the objectives of the most balanced or as even as possible after the recovery of certain most vulnerable groups of the population and the most affected sectors of the economy. It is based on the principle of some solidarity and proportionality. And given that some of the most controversial provisions or interferences in the Law on Infectious Diseases have already been excluded from the Committee, according to the opinion of the public and the opposition, it is totally incomprehensible that some opposition opposition groups oppose good measures for people who are addressing the situation of the most vulnerable social groups. As we say, in our Group of Members, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u236	Thank you very much. In his own name, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I'm listening to this, and I'm gonna try to metaphorically say why I won't support this marriage. Winter comes, you have to go to the volcanoer and change tires. I change tires. There's firefighters coming in, I buy a calendar every year, I give those pennies. Well, then, since I'm still at the volcanoer, I'm saying I'd like to take another test for the motorboat leader, and I want Brazilian waxing to be done with me. And then I say I'll just pay for the boatmaster's exam, not waxing and changing tires, because I have a salary of over 2,000 euros. Probably would have called someone who would have taken me to where Janša was sending Kordiš and Zorčič did not act. Then in the meantime, when they carried me, I'd still be screaming that the butchery across the street had to be closed. That's the logic of this marriage. And that's what you're bragging about, and that's what you're saying. That's great. Second story. When my child tells me, Dad, I need 10 euros, we don't have a written session. You have a letter meeting for a quarter of a billion, and Mrs Kozlovich said how it is. Janš's cabinet handles the e-mail if you don't respond in five minutes, because you don't hope that's it. I don't support a dead cold like that. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u239	Thank you, Vice President. I will vote against this because this law is immoral before us. This is because it again mixes good measures, harmful measures. The law is procedurally disputed that we should not forget the procedure or that the procedure is fundamental to democracy and the collapse of democratic institutions, in particular, the law is substantively controversial. As you have seen on one side dealing with the closing of schools on the spot with the help of the pensioner split into first-class and second-class. If you're a pensioner with 731 euros in pension benefits, if you have two euros above 733 you don't get an allowance. Why, why did you make that choice? It is a law that reintroduces even greater repression, look at the penalties and it is a law that further rewards the pay elite, an elite that is already paying far above the average in Slovenia and gives it an added 25 percent. He doesn't give it to young doctors, he doesn't give it to family doctors, he doesn't give it to nurses in hospitals, he gives it to the pay elite. Where's that coming from? This leads to the disintegration of the public system and what you do not realize also leads to the decomposition of accelerated public health. The following year, instead of raising money for services, we will raise money from our insurance for your terrible big gift packages, which will not have an effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mia Kordish in her own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, chairman. If past PKP packages have really worked so well why, then all the polls show that April 24 3 of the 4 coalition parties will wipe out the political scene? The answer lies in the distance between words and actions exactly the same step as we can monitor it during the PKP-10 hearing. PKP-10 can be heard to help all vulnerable groups, but who obviously is in this country, according to the motioners, are not vulnerable groups. These are the people who receive social assistance being the most poor in this country. These are disabled workers who work part-time, maybe more, maybe less, who barely come along with their incomes. These are students who are entitled to only low, low-priced scholarships and to hyper-practical student work, and, of course, the unemployed are also obviously not a vulnerable group, although the lowest unemployment benefit is EUR 530 gross. All these people, all these groups are forgotten from the PKP-10. Who is the vulnerable group, according to the proposalers, that is not forgotten? The doctor's lobby is also the most paid one of the doctors who receives EUR 10 000 a month's salary, after EUR 15 000 a month's salary, which, in the wake of the PKP-10 intervention in the salary system of public servants, will be entitled to an additional fat thousand every month. Thank you very much for such PKP packages that care for the rich and take care of capital and forget about the people in this country. You know what? My word is not the one to be looked at and to be feared on April 24th, but the gap between your words and the promotion and the actions that people have seen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u242	Mag. Andrei Reich, on his own. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u243	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we already have 10 sets of anti-Korona measures ahead of us and, of course, this fast way of taking, fast and frequent adoption of comprehensive legislation raises a number of questions after its effectiveness and transparency. The fact is, at this time, 10 billion euros have been spent under these laws and only 5 billion have been spent on cod action. And we are discussing this in particular today. We're underlining this discrepanic. We have great challenges ahead of us, and we are very concerned about the way in which we adopt this legislation. The current package under consideration also increased from €180 per night, €180 million to € 240 million. And of course, such a way of adopting legislation is not good and the traveller is not good. Slovenia has a record high public debt, has a record high structural deficit, and if we see that we have on the one hand economic growth with which the government boasts, and a record high structural [[sign for the end of the debate]] The deficit and the record high public debt, then we know that the traveller is not good and that these candies that the Government is now distributing will be paid as soon as possible. The European Central Bank is already forecasting an increase in interest rates. Germany is facing economic upheaval. And none of this has been addressed by the Government in these packages. Moreover, the measures it has taken have significantly made it difficult for the next generation to cope with the economic crisis [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's an announcement they're making. Of course, I cannot support this law alone, and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mojca the Žnidarič in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. I will support PKP 10. As I have already said in the debate, the deletion, of those articles which we have been warned by so many and so many citizens that they are in dispute with them, we have already deleted from the Committee on Finance. These are Articles 63 to 68. Once again, I stress that there is no mandatory vaccination in the law, because if vaccination against covidu-19 were mandatory, then no compensation would be required in this law, because already those who are for vaccination would be subject to compulsory vaccination. About the doctors' salaries. This PKP 10 does not increase wages, but the PKP sets a broader range of wage classes that will serve as the basis for negotiations to raise the salaries of doctors. However, I would like to highlight something else that I am glad that has also been settled on my initiative. That is, when I found that one of the types of persons with disabilities had fallen out of the PKP, people with disabilities who had been granted a decision on unemployment under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, i.e. persons with disabilities who were recipients of cash social assistance and a social security allowance, and those people could no longer find employment because they were unemployed, so the services in the coalition and also the Ministry of Labour, which drafted the amendment, were adopted today by Article 55. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , so of course we can't give it to everyone because it's not real, so we can all share some solidarity supplements. And there's always censorship. I am aware that someone will be able to exceed a certain solidarity allowance for one euro, but censorship is always. I'll support the PKP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 42. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Proceed with break 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax within the framework of the current procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the law would be unconformed in order for the amendments adopted on the labour force to result in the proposal of the law being inconsistent. [[…]] [[…]] We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – this is the third reading of the draft law on debarcation under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the proposal of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, which was published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 59. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to Article 60. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 61. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 62. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 12. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since the proposal for a second-reading amendment resulted in a non-coordinated amendment, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 43, which has been published on the e-clup. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 43. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Mr Rudi Medved on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Now ends this epic law on debirocratisation, which insidiously bears this title. In LMŠ, we are always wondering what is actually going to make life easier for citizens under this law, how they will improve the business environment and the competitiveness of the economy, how the country will act better with its services with its citizens. But all this law does not offer answers. In LMŠ, we are convinced that at this moment this government would actually do the most to debirocraticize itself by going after each other to look at all the legal ballast that has been drawn into ten anti-Korona laws, which we have just witnessed. True, though, we have managed to make this marriage less harmful. In LMŠ, with the majority support of the National Assembly, we were able to throw away from the law the official register of regulations and replace it with a useful register of local regulations. But look, this law is still the e-commerce of people with the country, it reduces virtually to Facebook Messenger level and the service of official writings is now being run by ordinary electronic mail, which dramatically reduces the security of citizens' operations with the country, and leaves open questions of proof of service. This is a huge difference between the operation of the country by means of a qualified digital certificate and Facebook service of official writing. Look, I am the head of FURS, Mr Simic, who, of course, I wish him well and is the ideologist of this law, and I certainly would not take him to lunch because of this law. It is precisely because of these shortcomings or inadequacies that this law brings, even though we have managed to bring something useful into it, that is [[sign for the end of the debate]] We're not going to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain the voice? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. It was 46 votes against 41. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council - on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision calling for members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, referred to as Mitja Chander, mag. Yuri Pavel Emeršič, Dr. Peter Gregorčič, Ivan Kramberger, Ziva Kušar [[?]] , Clara Remec, Jelka Stergel [[?]] and Matevž Tomšič. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. It was 46 votes against 42. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 42.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council - on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Ivan Hršk. It's Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have one very well-intentioned and serious procedural proposal for you. The fact is that the points that we will now consider will be those two points on the conclusions for which the Legislative and Legal Service has stated that they have not been proven to meet the legal conditions, so the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has assessed that they are illegal in violation of the law. [[Incomprehensible]] I would point to Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, which sets out and determines when and how the National Assembly may decide by decision, this is, of course, today and by decision, the National Assembly decides and gives its consent to the appointment and resolution of the members of the public authorities. We are voting on this today. And be careful, this article speaks according to the law. Now, if we have before us the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service alone, which claims that the decision we are going to vote on is that the two decisions are contrary to the law, I say that these two decisions do not comply with the rules of procedure for dealing with them. This is referred to in the second paragraph of Article 59 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that only matters which fulfil certain conditions under this Rules of Procedure may be placed on the agenda, which, of course, do not comply with those two laws. I would also point out, Vice-President, whether it is appropriate to decide on these two decisions, once again the President of the National Assembly has decided not to allow the vote on the two illegal decisions. Now that you do not stand up to the decision of the President of the National Assembly, I propose very well if you allow a colleague from the coalition, Mr Krivec, if you allow me to conclude my procedural proposal. My procedural proposal for you, Madam Vice-President, is that you do not put yourself on the sidelines of the President of the National Assembly's decision to suspend the meeting at this place and to postpone the consideration of these two points to a time when the President of the National Assembly may decide once again, because if you allow today's vote on what the President of the National Assembly has denied a while ago, you will stand up and deny his decision, you will stand up to it. The fact is that, in accordance with Article 58 of all business provisions, the reference to an extraordinary meeting was made within fifteen days. This article, which defines an extraordinary meeting, does not specify that an extraordinary meeting should be concluded within fifteen days, but only to be convened. The meeting will be suspended if you follow my procedural proposal and all business arrangements will be satisfactory and you will not go to history as Vice-President who has allowed the vote on two illegal decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Let me say that the President of the National Assembly convened this extraordinary meeting, so I reject your motion of procedure. Masha Kociper has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u251	Yes, Mr Vice-President, by content, with a procedural proposal, I am joining colleague Heferla with this additional explanation. As a person, please explain to me, as a representative of the Vice-Presidents, who is today in charge of this meeting, how we can decide today on point b and c, with the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, reading from the tapegram, saying that he will not put the matter to the vote and will end the matter. I ask for an explanation of how we can proceed with the consideration of a point which has already been concluded in this Assembly by the President of the National Assembly. As said by colleague Heferle, paragraph 59 allows the President not to place a matter for which he considers that the conditions are not met. In the explanation given by President Zorčič, it is clear at the previous meeting that he refers to this article and says that 43 Members and Members in this National Assembly have no representative in the RTV Programme Council or in the Supervisory Council, given what has been voted on by the Mandate-Election Commission, and I must say that this seems extremely problematic to me. In view of the fact that the law does not give the President of the National Assembly specific powers to intervene in what the Mandate-Electorial Commission has decided, I have nevertheless decided, on the basis of Article 59, that the President of the National Assembly shall, however, have the power to refer the meeting to the agenda. and I, if I had such an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, must say that I would not have classified these points." It was quoted from a magnetogram. So, the president of the National Assembly said that he wouldn't rank, finish the point. The request for a recall was made, the meeting was called to order. I think that the proposal of colleague Heferle is entirely in place to conclude once again that this point has been concluded and that neither debate nor vote on this point have been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Let me say that the President of the National Assembly closed the session at that meeting. But the point wasn't finished. So the point was not closed, a request for an extraordinary meeting came forward and the President decided to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And today we have this item on the agenda. As President, I do not have any business options for him to decide otherwise, so I propose that we continue the meeting. Procedural Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u253	Yes, I have no, unfortunately, other options than to respond procedurally to your statement that the President has concluded the meeting. No, no, no. Please take a look at the magnetogram. The President concluded his consideration of this point. If the point is closed once, I do not understand how it can continue. She wasn't interrupted. We know what a broken point means, but what a closed point means. I would understand that the President would place this point in the meeting because it is his duty, and start a re-examination point with the whole procedure. So I'd like you to take another look. The point was closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u254	Once again, Madam Ambassador. The point was closed at that meeting, and the matter has not been closed yet. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] And I suggest [[…]] Janja the Servant procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u255	Mr. Vice President. I'm really asking you to stop this session right now so you can look at what colleague Kociper tells you. We all went to check it out. In fact, the President concluded the point. Now, of course, you interpret when the point is finished and when it is not, and the fact is that when the point is finished, it means that it is finished. I don't know how else to tell you this. And the fact is that the members of the opposition have already warned at the meeting of the Commission on Elections that we are taking decisions that are not in accordance with the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The fact is that these conclusions also came to the plenary session. And that, of course, the Legislative and Legal Service gave its opinion in which it made it very clear: "Having in mind that the National Assembly reflects the political plurality of Slovenian society, it is essential that this is reflected in RTV Slovenia, as provided by law. Otherwise, that purpose would be disabled. Proposals for decisions for which they have not been shown to fulfil a certain condition under the law cannot be considered compatible with the law.’ And this is where we get to the 112th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of which colleague Heferle has already spoken. So the conditions for us to vote on this today are not met. In accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly stated that voting on illegal decisions could thus be suspended. You have a very clear position on the Law and Legal Service. Above all, the point was closed. And I also hope that you will not stand up to the President of the National Assembly. On behalf of the President of the National Assembly, who has found these decisions illegal and has decided not to put them to the vote. Even if a request was made to convene this meeting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly must convene it, he has no choice. But I'm sure if I were to sit here today in your shoes, I would, too. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I would not put these decisions to the vote because they have not changed in anything and are still illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I will also repeat for your procedural proposal. The President does not have a mandate to close the matter without a vote. And he didn't do it. [[advertising from the hall]] And if the president would do that, I don't know why he put her on today's agenda. And please, let's be responsible. Janja Sluga, once more procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u257	Mr Vice-President, I hope that you have not now opposed the President of the National Assembly to decide what he can and cannot do. He chaired the meeting, received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service during the course of the course of the course and did not put to the vote in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure of these Decisions. Now you're saying he didn't comply with the rules of procedure? That's what I'm asking you right now. That's what I'm asking you because you just said that. And I hope you don't hope to claim that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u258	Your Honor. I'm asking you to listen to me, too. I have before me a meeting convened by Mr Igor Zorčič. And I don't know why we should discuss it. Here it is, look, 21. 12. 2021. And as President, I have no basis in the Rules of Procedure to decide any other way. That is why we must continue this meeting. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u259	Dear Vice President, I think what you're doing is quite a laugh. I don't know, but you've got some professional help in there, but you're mixing pears and apples. One is the decision on the vote, and one is the decision on the reference. The President of the National Assembly signed a call because he had to make a request under the Rules of Procedure. And have a look at the rules of procedure. On the other hand, the decision you have in your hands is no longer made by those who make or make a request. And this is what we're talking about at exactly the same point. Tell me what has changed since last week, when the President of the National Assembly decided on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that he cannot include this. Now you suddenly realized that a president of the National Assembly had decided something and called it off. Please give me a professional job to help the vice president because he doesn't seem to understand anything! Let's find out the same thing. At least read the tape of what the President of the National Assembly has found.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u260	Dear fellow Member, I ask you not to be offensive and to be polite. I'm telling you again. The President of the National Assembly convened an extraordinary meeting and I have no business option to withdraw this item from the agenda. I therefore propose that we move forward as planned. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u261	Dear Vice-President, I'm going to be a little slower now, so we can understand each other, because you've said again something that has nothing to do with whether or not you're going to put to the vote. The meeting had to be convened by the President of the National Assembly following the Rules of Procedure because he had received a request under the Rules of Procedure with sufficient signatures by the Coalition, which, of course, required the President of the National Assembly to convene and re-set this item on the agenda. Because, by chance, the President of the National Assembly is not, for some other reason, objective today, of course, I believe that the President of the National Assembly would not be a schizophrenic person with himself and now put something to the vote, which he found last week that, on the basis of the Legislative and Legal Service, he would not hold back from voting on this at all. I'm not going to talk about content because it's a procedural proposal. And so please, if you don't understand, at least let me read what the President of the National Assembly has said. And that's where we ended up. There you have Mrs Bergoch, who is obliged to help you as an expert. And it will explain to you the difference between the reference and the decision made by the President, in this case it is you not to type it, because you still have an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Let us understand what you said earlier as a statement that the point did not end and the meeting was closed. Excuse me, do we have a point that hung in the air with the session closed? It doesn't exist. I don't put the vote to the vote, I'm closing the point, it's over. Of course, she could have put it back on the agenda. And all you have to do is find out. Very nice and slow. I hope everyone understands. I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u262	Thank you so much for your insulting things. I'm adjourning the session for 15 minutes, and we're going to ask the Legal and Legislative Office for an opinion. We'll continue the session at 8 p.m. and six minutes. Goodbye. (The sitting was suspended at 19.52 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 20.06.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with point 4b. As you can see, Nataša Voršič, Head of our Legal and Legal Service, has joined us and my question is, can the National Assembly decide on the matter b and c today? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposed decisions of the Management and Electoral Commission, which shall be the subject of a request for an extraordinary meeting, as the matter has not yet been concluded. The Legislative and Legal Service has given an opinion on these decisions, which may form the basis for the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u266	Yes, Madam Vice President, I think we're in a rather strange situation. Now, the Rules of Procedure have several provisions and, of course, they are linked. Among them is what can be classified, so that I basically agree with you here that the President of the National Assembly has made a mistake, that he has even placed this on the agenda of this meeting, because, under the second paragraph of Article 59, the conditions for dealing with a matter must be met. Referring to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposed decisions of the MVK, which states that it cannot be carefully considered whether these decisions are in accordance with the law, but also on the basis that the principle of proportionality must be taken into account, it follows that these two decisions are not in accordance with the law, under Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, which discusses how the National Assembly should decide on the appointment of members to the authorities of the institutions and undertakings. This provision of the Rules of Procedure states that it must comply with the law. These two decisions are not in accordance with the law because they do not take into account proportionality. For proportionality, in the event that more than one group is represented in the National Assembly, such as those referred to as cities, it is said that the constitutional principle of proportionality should be taken into account. These are the words of the Legal and Legislative Service, third-party. “As the National Assembly reflects the political plurality of Slovenian society, it is imperative,” says the Legislative and Legal Service, “that this is reflected in RTVS, as stipulated by the law, otherwise this purpose would be disabled.” [[…]] [[…]] Well, it's perfectly clear. Of course, these two conclusions should not be on the agenda at all today, so I suggest that you do what the President of the National Assembly did at the time of our regular meeting, so you do not put these two decisions to the vote because they are obviously illegal because they do not comply with the RTV Slovenia Act, which clearly stipulates that there must be parties represented in the National Assembly in accordance with a proportionate principle. And don't hide now for the president's mistake that he even put it at an extraordinary session, but take that responsibility and defend it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] the legality of the functioning of this National Assembly, and just end as the President of the National Assembly concluded at a closed regular meeting and this is my procedural proposal. Well, you can't put something to the vote that's illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u267	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, of course, which I cannot accept. So only the National Assembly can decide what is legal and what is illegal. And that's why I'm suggesting [[…]] Tina Hefferle, come in, please. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u268	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Look, there's more facts, no. One fact is that the legislative and legal service has now said only that decisions taken by the MVK can be decided. It's very broad across the board. The second fact is that the Legislature did not say that the meeting today should not be suspended. And my initial procedural proposal to you, Madam Vice-President, was to suspend the meeting at this point, because only with this will you somehow give legitimacy and admit a position to the President of the National Assembly, when the last time we had these two items on the agenda, the meeting was closed. You have not explained in any way how the circumstances differ today from last week. I estimate that they are exactly the same, only with the difference that we have an extraordinary session today and we had a regular meeting last week. Second fact. President Igor Zorčič also signed a reference to the regular meeting last week, and he also decided that the illegal decisions for which the Legislative and Legal Service had established this will be read once again: "it has not been shown that these decisions meet certain conditions under the law and therefore cannot be assessed as complying with the law." That's a fact. And the circumstances are exactly the same as last week. There's no reason you're suggesting to justify your insistence on your decision. The fact is that today's call was signed by President Igor Zorčič, as signed last week by Igor Zorčič. But last week President Igor Zorčič did not allow a vote on two illegal decisions, and today you will obviously allow it. And a third fact. The Rules of Procedure of Article 58 shall specify only and only the time limit within which an extraordinary meeting shall be convened. This duty has been fulfilled by President Igor Zorčič. But the Rules of Procedure do not specify any place, so please read to me, if you feel otherwise, quote me a business provision, but the Rules of Procedure do not specify anywhere. [[sign for the end of the debate]] that an extraordinary meeting, when convened within the time limit, must be concluded on a specific date. Or even that it has to end. It doesn't say that anywhere. And that is why my procedural proposal for you, Madam Vice-President, is once again very well-meaning and very serious. Discontinue the meeting at this point, allow the decision to be taken on these two decisions [[sign for the end of the debate]] decided by the President of the National Assembly, because he had already decided not to put them to the vote, and today you would like to deny him and challenge his value.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u269	I will once again reply to you, Madam, that matters are on the agenda on the basis of a request for an extraordinary meeting. Such a meeting shall be convened and carried out within 15 days. A suspension of the sitting shall not be possible except with the consent of those who so requested. He's got the word first, he's signed up for Joze Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 85 of the Constitution regulate the reference and the holding of an extraordinary meeting. If the President of the National Assembly has fully placed this requirement in an extraordinary session, and this extraordinary meeting must then be held, a reference and a vote also within a certain period of time. The withdrawal of the item from the agenda shall be possible only with the consent of the proposer. The decision whether to move the point to another meeting shall not be possible by a decision of the President of the National Assembly when the call has already been made, but only by a vote. In plenary. The President of the National Assembly established this at a previous meeting, in violation of the ordinary meeting of the National Assembly. And he did not comply with the Rules of Procedure, because all that the President can do as President of the National Assembly is regulated in Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure. And to withdraw the points when it is already on the agenda, the President of the National Assembly cannot, in any case, withdraw and withdraw, under any circumstances. If he wanted to do so, he should have put such a proposal to the vote. He didn't do it. Now, keep going. Now here you are filled with the mouth of legality and constitutionality, and I don't know what else. Lawfulness is determined by the court. Any unconstitutionality shall be determined by the Constitutional Court. And if you believe that such a decision or this proposal by the Mandate-Electorial Commission is illegal to challenge. If you think he's unconstitutional, you'll challenge him. I would only remind you that five Members voted in favour of an identical decision in 2013. It was only Bevk, Brane Golubović, Matjaž Han, Maša Kociper and Jani Möderndorfer. That's when we objected to a solution adopted by the Mandate-Volution Commission. You confirmed it, even without us, even though we were the second largest party in Parliament and we did not have our own representatives. And those who are very loud today voted in favour of such a decision. Indirectly. And, President, I propose that, in accordance with the powers you have and the task you have, you also complete these two points in accordance with [[sign for the end of the debate]] including the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u271	Thank you very much. That's how it's gonna I suggest we move on. Procedurally Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u272	One more time. Look, what's happening now and these arguments don't drink water. It was only in this mandate that the President of the National Assembly rejected the request to convene an extraordinary meeting when the coalition wanted to discuss whether one party in that country should be banned. He refused, didn't he? Even though the rules of procedure were what you say now. You asked for it, it has to go away – it's not true. The same president also rejects the number of questions sent by a written colleague due to content disputed. And it's also a business matter based on the constitution. If I go back any further. In the previous term, the President of the National Assembly, Brglez, stopped collecting signatures for the referendum. And the Constitutional Court assured him that he had stopped, in fact, very openly stalling and disrupting proceedings in that country. The Constitutional Court said: yes, he did, because it was a very clear purpose to delay the adoption of legislation and procedures. So that these cases and so little and you can do it, right? But it takes a little courage. So again. My procedural proposal is that, on the basis of all these facts, you see, if you are going to read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, these two decisions adopted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission are not in accordance with the law because they do not represent the relative size of the groups or parties represented in the National Assembly. Which should be legal. It is very clear that proportionality, given that we still have proportional elections in this country, is one of the key foundations of democracy. And these two conclusions are currently being made, let's say, I don't know, a four-member group gets one representative seat in the programming and supervisory council, a group of 13 members - none. And finally, when you look at the paper and add it up, you get the result that basically the power of 45 Members is represented in these saints. If it went legally, there'd be 67. And that's the point of proportionality. And here is your responsibility, Vice President, to take this matter into your own hands and not put these two things to the vote because they are obviously against the law. To Talk About That I Can [[sign for the end of the debate]] We decide what's legal and what's not, but it's dangerous. Because then, I don't know, the coalition, whoever has the majority, will say, I don't know, we'll put Matjaž Han in jail and we'll confirm that, we'll vote in the National Assembly and it's okay or something. I mean, that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u273	Commissioner, I reject your procedural proposal because I do not consider that I have these powers. Natasha Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u274	Dear President, look. You said this is where we decide what's legal and not legal. I mean, the law has already been written, and today we don't accept the novelty of this law. The law is perfectly clear and we, as representatives of the legislative bodies, should be aware of the laws that are read and respected and respected, even you, who are today instead of the president, must act in accordance with the laws that are in force in this country. And the marriage is perfectly clear. What we have before us today does not reflect plurality or proportionality in this National Assembly. It doesn't reflect it. Members' groups with thirteen and twelve and eight Members were completely excluded and groups of three or four Members were represented. This does not reflect, and it is therefore my procedural proposal that you actually respect the law and respect the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which has been perfectly clear and is, still stands. From the previous meeting to today, these facts have not changed. I ask that you, as chairman, respect the commitment you made when you took this position to act legally. So to act in accordance with the law, not as you have made up the present majority, which has been established, but as already written. And today we are not discussing the novelty of this law so that you can break it and reshape it in your own way. This law stands and this law is in force, and yes, in the end the court will decide on it, respected and respected. We would like to suggest that you suspend this session or withdraw these items from the agenda for voting because we cannot vote on them because they are totally illegal. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I reject your motion. Mag. Meira Hot has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u276	Thank you very much. A very short question, Mr President. Now, you just said that the National Assembly has decided what is legal, what is not. I'm appalled about it, but I'm curious about something else. I ask for an interpretation of the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, which said that the opinion of the PSC is the basis for the vote. What happens if the vote is contrary to the opinion of the PSC, where it is clearly stated that this decision does not contain the criteria and justifications it should have. She said earlier that this was the basis for the vote. Does that mean we have to follow or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u277	Look, honourable Member, I have asked the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service a clear question and we have also received a clear answer to this question. We got it. Tina Hefferle, that's why I reject your proposal. Tina Hefferle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've missed me a few times. I don't think I'm that weird.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u279	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u280	Yeah, apology accepted. Now, some of your procedural proposals have been misleading, and you, Mr Vice-President, are deceiving when you speak all the time, that you cannot withdraw the point because you need the consent of the proposer that you cannot move the point to the second session, because you need the consent of the proposer that you cannot withdraw the point because you need the consent of the proposer, but you have not yet stated yourself about my first procedural proposal, why you do not simply interrupt the meeting. It is not about the withdrawal, nor about the presentation of the point at the second session, it is only about the suspension of this meeting today and the fact that the Law-Legal Service has not even stated this. Whether or not it is possible to interrupt the meeting at this point and continue the meeting another day or not. This is my assessment that you did not deliberately ask the Legal and Legislative Service, because it would probably be the answer to your dislike. The fact is, the Constitutional Court is already unloving. The fact is that the Constitutional Court has already decided that the abuse of justice must be taken into account by every state body. This also applies to the President of the National Assembly, and now you are in the position of the President of the National Assembly and you are obliged to be vigilant and to apply the law well-intentioned and in accordance with the spirit of law and if the Legislative and Legal Service clearly states in white that the two decisions you wish to vote against today are in violation of the law, then there is nothing but that you are a respected coalition with supporters of obviously Desus and you, respected Vice-President, want to make an illegal decision today. My procedural proposal is completely well-intentioned, and I ask you to make it clear, in a way that you can tell me, because the business commitments that you are taking to the end of today, I have asked you earlier whether there is any business diction by which you must end today, quote it to me, quote from the Rules of Procedure, not interpretively, not in your own words, but quote it to me. This provision does not merely speak of a reference to be made within 15 days of the request for an extraordinary meeting, that is a fact, and therefore, the honourable Vice-President, is my procedural proposal and at the same time the question of whether you will continue the meeting and do not interrupt it at this point, please answer me whether this is your own judgment or will you sign under this unlawful decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u281	I will repeat the honourable Member once more. The meeting was to be held at the 91st extraordinary meeting on the basis of Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure and the request must be completed within 15 days. That's what it says, no later than 15 days. Look, it's been eight days since the 21st, and we're going to fall into the holidays, so I'm not going to take this motion of procedure into consideration. Bran Golubovic, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u282	Thank you very much. With this extended government coalition I can explain procedural and you will have peace in your illegal work Mr Krivec! [[…]] In this extended government coalition, which consists of it, it must be told repeatedly who consists of: SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC, DeSUS, SNS, Member of the Nationality in order to achieve your goals, you are also prepared to do everything in violation of laws, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking it all in order. This is what we see now in these days also in practice in the adoption of the PKP-10, where the Constitution, for example, was violated Article 14 of the Constitution – equality before the law. Labour legislation or the Public Sector Wages Act has been violated and the Rules of Procedure have been violated and you are also working for these two decisions appointing you to the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, where you are in violation of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Act and Article 26, paragraph 1, of the RTV Act. You're clearly violating them because you were also told by the Legal and Legislative Service when she said that the decision was not in line with the RTV Act. These two conclusions, despite warnings, well-intentioned warnings from the opposition, put to the vote Ivan Hršak, Member of Desus at the MVK and you are also responsible for this illegal activity in the National Assembly and because we do not want to participate in this legal hooliganism, in the demolition of the public RTV of the non-governmental, not the party, but the public RTV will be in the LMŠ or we predict obstruction at both points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u284	Thank you, Chairman. You constantly insist on the position that you do not have the business possibilities by which to withdraw illegal decisions from the vote. Then, Madam Vice-President, explain to me how this could have happened at the previous meeting. How was the actual President of the National Assembly able to obtain in his hands a document of the Legislative and Legal Service, which was unusually determined to be illegal recruitment at the top of national public RTV, and in the wake of the findings in this opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service withdrew the decisions from the vote and completed the procedure if, as you say, there is no business basis for this. The business basis of course is, you just don't want to mobilise it. You are avoiding the responsibility you bear as Vice-President of this National Assembly. If there were indeed any mistakes in the process, if your Chief President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič, had made any mistakes, then you would have some other proactive obligation to act than just to say at today's meeting that you do not have a business basis for withdrawing illegal decisions. Since, indeed, Mr Zorčič has done something as outrageous as his own will to intervene in a democratic process, he is ripe for you, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, to act as a Member to act as a citizen with at least one complaint. Is that what happened? No, no, no. Because, in the withdrawal of these illegal decisions, Mr President of the National Assembly has remained within his powers, he has remained within the framework of the rules of procedure, which he did not lay down in the framework of the Rules of Procedure that you from the place of authority, from a position of power that has the power to turn on and turn off the microphone to all the 90s, which we are now sitting in here, would now like to continue to vote on a second time and for the last time stressing the decisions that are obviously illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Member, let me tell you that what the President has done, I am not going down in his decision. However, I know that today's meeting has been requested for an extraordinary meeting, and this has been placed on the agenda by the President on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 58. And I suggest we give Dr. Duck a word and stop messing around and continue the session. [[…]] Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I still have to step up to what my colleagues are saying because they're obviously miscalculating. In view of some specific aggregate situation of the MP that has changed today, and given the specificity of this topic of representatives of the national communities, we are actually 44:44. Half of Parliament does not have the capacity to place its representatives in this regard on two bodies. That's one fact. Secondly, not only in politics are there very important lapsusses. Lapsus also happened to Joseph Tank, with all his respect for the Rules of Procedure. He told you to do the job. And my procedural question, the chairman, is whether you're a student of Jozet Tank or you're the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u287	The word is Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u288	Dear Vice-President, in this country I hope that we have the Constitution, that we have the laws, that we have the Rules of Procedure. But we're out of something that I actually miss the most. Political dignity, political culture, if you want political gentlemanhood. In fact, in this national assembly, political reality has not been taken into account in the last period and there is also a opposition in this national assembly, which is even more powerful than some individuals. One party has almost several ministers, such as Members of the National Assembly, and holds all possible functions. The other party has only two members who have left and so on and so on. Now that we're talking so much, all I'm interested in is whether the opinion of the 16th Legislative and Legal Service still applies. 12. where it has clearly stated that the Mandate-Electorial Commission, when in some way voted such a decision for the RTV Programme Council, is in accordance with legislation or is not. As is clear to me and as on these two papers, it has clearly stated that it does not comply with the RTV legislation. And if we don't have our own legislation, and we respect it, we respect it in this National Assembly before, if each president is able to explain his own way and because he knows that he has a majority, then this country is not on the right track. And since this country is not on the right track, even with this law or with these conclusions that we are about to adopt, the Social Democrats cannot cooperate and we are predicting obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u290	Yes, thank you very much. However, I might point out to the people who are looking at us that these procedural debates, which you cannot carry out differently than in the form of a procedural requirement to report to the word, have no direct bearing on the conclusions on which we will vote. We are now talking about whether we can deal with these points at all today. During the meeting of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the chairpersons. During the meeting of the National Assembly last time, Igor Zorčič interpreted that the two points in accordance with Article 59 do not meet the conditions for consideration. Just as Mr Polnar on the finances interprets that, obviously, some amendments that have not met the conditions themselves, they go to the vote, just as Mrs Anja Bah at the meeting of her committee finds that, despite the conclusion of the College, we will be working in 22 hours, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, always citing the President-in-Office, so the President of the National Assembly has interpreted that these two points do not meet the conditions for inclusion in the meeting. In this whole debate, I have not received an answer as to what has changed in the meantime, that these two points now suddenly meet the conditions for the meeting. The president said they didn't meet. And the second question, where is your right to take over his decision, is that the last time your president finds out that you are not fulfilling it, you find that you are now fulfilling it. There was one here, one such chaos. And I'm not saying that the opposition is always right, not at all. But it's obviously going into some kind of overkill here. And here we are right because behind us is the President of the National Assembly, who has concluded this point and said that he does not meet the conditions. So, of course, you can't work under such conditions. In the parliamentary group, to the great joy of the colleagues on the left who have already proposed this to me many times, we are predicting obstruction. We believe that this point should not be decided today by the decision of the National Assembly. Of course, you'll take things your way and decide [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] As you decide on the boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u291	The word has Janja the Servant, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u292	Yes, Vice President, see what we are witnessing today is, in fact, just a highlight of what we have been observing for almost two years. Of course, no one in this debate has mentioned the substance of why such a decision is taken in such a way against the opinion of the legislative service, against the provisions of the law and against what 43 Members and Members say in this National Assembly. It is the completion of the Corporal on public RTV and the complete submission. While the Law on Public Radiotelevision of Slovenia makes it very clear that it must express some political plurality, global visual pluralism, but be, prohibit the promotion of cultural, religious, sexual, racial and other discrimination, what is going on? He's just... he's... Under the tactics of the SDS, which, of course, orchestrates all this, with the help of some of the little things that remain in this National Assembly. Let's say SMC, which has a half-life that we would like in radioactive elements, which in a few days is going to decrease, which would be great for the environment, and helpers, especially former members of Desus's or whatever they are, two members of national communities and a Slovenian national party. Why? For personal gain. Because some legislation has been adopted, which has allowed, I do not know, additions to some employees in the authorities of the national communities or newspapers, the media and so on. In order to legalise some black construction somewhere and to adopt two million amendments in the budgets for 2022 and 2023. Unfortunately, these are the key reasons that ultimately subordinate the public interest to the fact that three or four Members of the National Assembly are going to take illegal decisions. And that's fucked up, and that's one mind. Because you are ready, but especially you, those who support this coalition, which is a minority, among other things, are willing to do everything and degrade and dismantle all institutions in this country. You are already a large part of them, today there is still public RTV on the wallpaper, some of them are likely to come to the end of the term, but at the burning site left by this Government, you too will be responsible. So, of course, we're not going to cooperate, we're going to insist. [[sign for the end of the debate]] That these two decisions are against the law, so we will not vote on them, but I announce the absence of all Members and Members of the Levic Group from this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u294	Yeah. The way this coalition operates in this house, and by that I mean, as colleague Vatovec said, the one-minded, subordinated to the same party, and everyone else, I mean everyone else, who is sitting here next to us now with Comrade Yuri, you are nodding. This is the way he wants to move into exactly all the times of social life in this country. And that's exactly what these two conclusions are trying to do on public RTV. The law on RTV is clear. And according to the law on RTV, their representatives should receive SDS, LMŠ, SD, SMC and Levica from this point of view. And of course, the coalition doesn't like it. That is why she has calmly eliminated opposition parties and will receive her candidate Nova Slovenija and SNS, and this one does not even pay RTV subscription, so explain to me how this candidate can help the good functioning of public RTV. As for the supervisory board, however, it should be pointed out here that the RTV Act is even stricter. Because he says he has to reflect. And this relationship isn't between customers. This relationship is between the coalition and the opposition. And you're breaking both of them. The President-in-Office of the European Union, of course, you are citing this meeting, even in the previous week, the President of the National Assembly signed the call for that meeting, but after receiving the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Services, he found that the conclusions were against the law and therefore did not withdraw the point as you now wish to reinterpret it, but he concluded it and did not put it to the vote. And that's exactly what I would do today if I were here. And that is exactly what you should do if you were to comply with the rules of procedure [[sign for the end of the debate]] and according to the law. I hope that you, Vice-President of the National Assembly, will go to court to defend this decision when the case is brought before the court. Of course, I can agree that obstruction is something the opposition must use in extreme cases, in extreme force. But you know, people's protests are the kind of thing that should happen. [[sign for the end of the debate]] only in extreme force. And they happen every other day. Because you forced us to. We're gonna obstruct you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Ivan Hršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the first meeting of the 37th session. 12. 2021 lays down the text of the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed by the National Assembly on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Pursuant to that provision, 5 members of the RTV Programme Council are appointed by Slovenia by the National Assembly on a proposal from political parties, taking into account, as much as possible, the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. On 27 January 2022, the fifth members of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia, appointed on a proposal from political parties, shall expire on a four-year term of office, and the Mandate-voluntary Commission shall be held at its 35th session. Ten. 2021 adopted the decision to invite the members of the group to submit proposals. The decision to call on the parliamentary groups, as eligible applicants in this procedure, was adopted by the Mandate-Election Commission on the basis of a long-formed practice. I repeat – The Commission adopted the mandate on the basis of established long-term practice and taking into account the legal condition which lays down the criteria for the representation of parties in the National Assembly. Through the Parliamentary Group and its Members, the Party shall exercise its interests in the National Assembly, which is why this practice is also justified and meaningful. Within the time limit set for the nomination of candidates, the Commission received 8 proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Left, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and the Slovenian National Party. All the proposals were timely and complete. On the basis of the outcome of the vote of the members and members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the inclusion of candidates in the proposal for a decision submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for decision by the National Assembly, the candidates of the five parliamentary groups, namely, Dejan Cesar, candidate of the Desus Group, Anusha Gashi, candidate of the SMC Group, Vane Gošnik, candidate of the SNS Group, Jožef Verovšek, candidate of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and Dr Maja Lapornik, candidate of the NSI Group of Ambassadors, are included in the decision. On the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes to adopt a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act provides that five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council shall appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from political parties, taking into account, as much as possible, the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. On the basis of this Article, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission has called on the Group of Members serving in the National Assembly to propose candidates and candidates. In accordance with the practice that has been in force since the adoption of the RTV Act in 2005, we have proposed candidates for the Group of Members. The members of the Mandate-Election Commission then established, in accordance with current practice, a candidate list on which the representatives of the coalition and opposition parties are represented, meaning that the parties are represented. There can be no full representation because five candidates are elected, and there are 8 parties and a group of Non-Aligned Members in the National Assembly. This time the decision in no way departs from past decisions at the meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, as full representation cannot be achieved because there have been more than 5 parties in the National Assembly in recent years. In recent years, we have had even two candidates from one party, while others did not have their own representative, including the party that won the most votes in the elections. Colleagues from the opposition, who are now obstructing, have cooperated throughout the process. They proposed their candidates, voted on the candidates in the Mandate-Election Commission, participated in a college that first placed these points at the regular meeting of the National Assembly, and voted in favour of the agenda. Therefore, a point which fulfils the procedural procedure, that is to say that it is ready to make a decision and has fulfilled all the conditions for inclusion on the agenda, is discussed in Article 59, where it is therefore considered and all the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure are met. A vote and a decision has been taken on the Commission's terms of reference and is being drawn up today. The President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, suspended the meeting at this point in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, so we have this decision before us today. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia for a period of four years Dejan Cesar, Anusha Gaša, Vane Gošnik, Jožef Jerovšek and Maja Laprnik. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. (The vote was 45.)(against 1.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Hršk, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 1st meeting of the 37th session. 12. 2021 lays down the text of the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 26 of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia appoints the National Assembly of five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. On 27 January 2022, the five members appointed by the National Assembly to the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia shall expire on a four-year term of office, which is why the Mandate-Electorial Commission shall be at its 35th session. Ten. 2021 adopted the decision to invite the members of the group to submit proposals. The decision to call on the parliamentary groups as eligible candidates in this procedure was adopted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the basis of the formation of long-standing practice and taking into account the legal condition which lays down the criteria for the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. Through the Parliamentary Group and its Members, the Party shall exercise its interests in the National Assembly, and this practice shall also be justified and reasonable. Within the time limit set for proposing candidates, the Commission received eight proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Left, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party. All the proposals were timely and complete. On the basis of the outcome of the vote of the members and members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the inclusion of candidates in the proposal for a decision submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for the decision of the National Assembly, the candidates of the five parliamentary groups are included in the decision. This is Dr. Tamara Besednjak Valič, candidate of the SDS Group, Janez Čadež, candidate of the NSI Group of Ambassadors, mag. Bullet of the candidate of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, mag. Romana Fischer candidate of the Desus Group and Alenka Vodonnik candidate of the SNS Group. On the basis of Article 26(1) of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u302	Article 26 of the RTV Act provides that the National Assembly appoints five of the 11 members of the RTV Supervisory Board, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. On the basis of this Article, the Mandate-Election Commission has called on the parliamentary groups to propose candidates and candidates. In line with the practice that we have proposed to the parliamentary groups of candidates, the members of the Mandate-Election Commission then set out a candidate list on which the representatives of the coalition and opposition parties are represented. I'd like to remind you of a few more facts. In 2013, the SDS proposal for a member of the RTV Supervisory Board was not taken into account. I will read to you the debate from the meeting of the National Assembly at which we decided on the members. Ms Jeraj then quoted Maša Kociper as saying: “Mrs Jeraj correctly read Article 26 of the RTV Slovenia Act, which states that in the election to the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council, political parties must be taken into account in the National Assembly and that this article does not provide that proportionality must be taken into account, saying that political parties in the National Assembly should be represented in proportion. If this were to be the case, the law would probably not have provided for elections for members of the Supervisory Board, because if elections were to take place of course, proportionality could not be ensured in the same way as if it had been established by law. After the elections, five political parties in the National Assembly were represented in the RTV supervisory council, but the national disaster and the end of the world is because once among these parties there is no SDS.”, the end of the quote. According to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and experts in the field of media and media law, the representation of political parties has merely been directed by the appointment of the supervisor of RTV Slovenia. The law does not specify which parties in the world must have their representatives and does not provide that the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is the right of a particular political party. Since we then assessed that the largest client does not have representatives in the RTV supervisory board, that the law we have filed is a violation and the Administrative Court is 30. 1. 2014 has decided that none of the provisions of the RTV Act provides that the appointment to the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia would be an individual's right to membership in the supervisory council and the exercise of that right. Nor does it follow from the provisions that the right of a member to be appointed to the Supervisory Board by a political party under the quota of five members of the National Assembly. The parties were cool in 2019 when Matjaž Rakovec stepped down as mayor of Kranj, representing SD in protest and Alexander Igličar SMC, because the programme council did not dismiss the Director General of Igor Kadunc as supervisor elected Borut Žagar from LMŠ and Danil Tomšič from SD. In the SDS, we have thus lost members in the supervisory council, even though we have been elected by more people than SD and LMŠ together in the elections. We did not have a representative from the government of Mir Cerar when the left majority elected a smaller NSI representative instead of a SDS candidate to the supervisory council of RTV Slovenia. In all these years, the practice has been highlighted, which we are working on now, and to the extent that I believe that something is not in accordance with the law can be done as we have brought an action and the court will tell who is right. In the parliamentary group, we will decide on the appointment of five members of the RTV Supervisory Board, which was prepared by the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u303	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. There are no applications for discussion. By moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Slovenia as members of the RTV Supervisory Board for a period of four years: Dr. Tamara Besednjak Valič, Janez Čadež, mag. Bullet Chestnut, mag. Romana Fisher and Alenka Vodonnik. /advertising from the hall. Excuse me. Explanation of the voice of Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u304	On behalf of the Group of Members, I must boast. Apparently, the SNS gave a very high-quality candidate, receiving 13 votes, this is Mrs Alenka Vodončnik. They also clearly recognized a good candidate when they left the vote today, so I thank them and the others who proposed it. So thank you very much and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-27-SDZ8-Izredna-91.ana.u305	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 91st meeting of the assembly.
