ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Tina Heferle from 12.30 p.m. to 3 p.m., Ferenc Horváth until 2 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajić, Jerca Korce, Edward Paulic from 12:00 to 14:00. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Trade Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, as representative of the proposer on behalf of the 5 thousand voters and voters, to the 9th item of the agenda, the President of the State Council, to the F11. and 30th agenda items, representatives of the Council of the Court of Justice at agenda 34 and representatives of the Government at all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 September 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 2. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda for the 25th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We are moving on to the 33rd A-point of the agenda – REQUESTS OF THE COMMITMENTAL GROUP AND THE COMPETITION OF THE COURT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION TO PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF COOPERATION AND EDUCATION OF DEPARTMENTS BY A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 115th meeting on 10 September 2021 that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education should be considered in a simplified manner. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 43 Members and Members, with the first signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the applicant's representative to request Dr. Mate T. Vatov to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. The coalition members of the group and members of the national communities have tabled in the procedure the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, proposing a radical change in the composition of the educational and educational councils. They want a significantly greater policy impact in schools and kindergartens. This is a key solution. Despite the fact that there was no prior discussion after a major change, which would also have serious consequences in the public school system, the College adopted a reduced procedure for this law on 10 September. In the opposition, we strongly oppose this and, on the basis of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, we have requested that the procedure whereby this law is to be adopted be decided by the National Assembly in its entirety. The new ZOFVI brings nothing but politicisation of the public education system. The proposal foresees that the number of representatives of the founders in the institution's world would rise from 3 to 5 and consequently reduce employees' representatives by 2. By increasing the number of representatives of the founder to 5 from a total of 11 members, the decisive influence of politicians on the functioning of schools and kindergartens is strongly opened and, above all, the door to political orientation of the principals is opened. If such an amendment is adopted, it will ultimately mean that candidates will have to have either a political party's membership card or be likers of any municipal list or have to be dependent on that same policy. The system we know today, which represents 5 employees' representatives, 3 representatives of the municipality and 3 representatives of parents, has proved appropriate within 25 years of its adoption. Moreover, the saints of the institutions operate independently of every single authority, and in the end professional workers, a collective in the education and education system, have a decisive word. This, of course, makes sense, even when it comes to such an important decision as to who will lead the educational institution. Educators, teachers, educators can best assess which of the candidates for the principal or principal has the appropriate professional skills, knowledge and other social characteristics for the successful management of the collective and the entire school or kindergarten. Therefore, the reduction in the impact of these workers is not primarily trusted by professionals in the public education system, which is neither supported nor substantiated. On the contrary, according to the quality of our public education system, which is placed in the top quarter of Europe's best, the management of public schools and kindergartens is a success. Any intervention should therefore be at least professionally justified and subject to a broader professional and public debate. The replacement of professional criteria with political relevance will undoubtedly exacerbate the quality of the public education system. The changes proposed by the coalition would thus open the door wide to political recruitment and political pressure on the management of educational institutions, which is unacceptable and unacceptable to us. I sincerely hope that, in today's re-decision on the procedure, you will allow at least a broader public debate and prevent, after a reduced procedure, such a radical and essential intervention into the public education system from being dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education shall be dealt with in a simplified manner. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 40. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. This concludes the 33rd A-point of the agenda. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Procedural proposal, colleague Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, my procedural proposal is, and in particular I call on you to have the Prime Minister attend the meetings of the Commissions, and especially the Commission on Public Finance Control. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u5	A colleague, colleague Bandelli [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u6	on which he has already been absent twice. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u7	Colleague Bandelli [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u8	Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u9	No, no. Look, colleague Bandelli, this is not a procedural proposal for this agenda item. We are on the question of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u10	Look, there's corruption happening every day, there's lobbying. There are people after reporting to the media who get jobs in probably the wrong way. And that's a shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u11	Comrade Bandelli, I ask you to respect the rules of procedure. Colleague Bandelli [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u12	Respect the rules of procedure, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u13	I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u15	I'm giving you a warning. Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u16	Mainly, make order in this national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u17	Dear colleagues, stick to the agenda. We all know when a proposal is proposed. Such a proposal, as you have just expressed it, can also be suggested, pointed out, but this is not the moment. We are on the question of Members and Members, and please and I propose that we proceed with this item, which is item 1 of the agenda, to continue with the questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, as well as questions raised by members of the ruling coalition, will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Dr. Helena Jaklitsch, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world; Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure; and Dr. Anže Logar, Minister of Foreign Affairs. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. He will be asked questions by four Members, like first Robert Pavšič, LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u18	Mr Janša, I congratulate you that you have finally gathered enough courage today to face the National Assembly. You've been successfully avoiding our questions so far. Twice you have avoided the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which we have proposed in the LMSH. You are also obviously avoiding a parliamentary commission investigating the cod of the measures I am conducting and proposed by the LMŠ. You haven't been able to raise an invitation to this committee's hearing until today. You know what kind of invitation. We're sending it to you in a series and you're repeatedly rejecting it. The one for this Friday at 8:30. You may feel uncomfortable today because of this confrontation and all the evidence, but write down your responsibility solely for yourself and for your actions. Your persistent silence, your avoiding unpleasant issues, your ignorance of the National Assembly and its constitutional functions, all of which actually forced us to act harshly, persistently, uncompromisingly, and at least today we face at least one question. Members, especially the public, we certainly deserve this. This is our right, our constitutional right, and your constitutional duty. Otherwise, I'm sure we won't get any answers today - because we already know you well - because that's your way of doing things. Because today is not enough time. You had your chance, and you let her go. I therefore ask you today only about the morality of doing without the required details, which will certainly be investigated and explained by others. I won't go into the past long enough five years, and I'll tell you why you're the last one who can lecture us about first-class tycoons with yachts and villas. I'm not going to tell you about elitism, it's a matter of personal perception and personal ability, even though you can't be a second-rate advocate and at the same time live the life of the elite. Of course, you will say that everyone in his own time can do what he wants and with whom he wants. Isn't it? But when you're a public political official, you're not anyone anymore. As was not the case with coincidence or coincidence in your repeated meeting and association on the exotic islands and on luxury yachts on the Adriatic Sea, you did not happen or accidentally become Prime Minister three times – this is the highest responsible holder of the political executive branch. You have powers and power, and I hope you're aware of that. That's why the public is asking for answers. Have you in any way allowed any company to do business with the State? Have you done anything to ensure that your private association with lobbyists, tycoons and businessmen is not reflected in potential corruption or customerism? Is what you have done and what you think has been documented in any moral or ethical way? Is what you do fair?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u19	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, as far as the commission's concerned. Under the rules in force, by law and by the rules of this national assembly, participation in the investigative commissions, if you are invited, necessary and I have no problem with this. I've been here many times, and I think it's the most common of all of you to talk to the various investigative commissions that someone's remembered. And I've never avoided that. I also received an invitation for Friday, and I'm working on getting here. But my calendar is full. I have within one week more European and international obligations than your Prime Minister has had throughout the year. It is also necessary to choose priorities here and there are also telephones in this country and can also be agreed on a time limit for investigative commissions. As for the other working bodies, such as the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I have so far been elected to all the compositions of this national assembly, including the first democratically elected assembly. I don't remember the heads of government going to work-body meetings. I was also a member of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission when we were in opposition. Sometimes we invited the presidents of the governments. I don't remember anyone coming. Never. So don't make a saga out of something that just doesn't hold. The competent authorities shall attend the meetings of the working bodies, covering certain matters. The Commission oversees public finances and I think the Ministry is always attending these meetings. As far as this experiment is concerned, your moral sermon on this matter. Look, you're not the one that I'm going to answer to, who I can hang out with in private, or who I'm going to report to. The specific question you have asked, but the answer is no. Gentlemen who were once respected economists, but now that you have published them in the picture with me, suddenly they have become tycoons to you, they have never done any business with me. If you know any, tell him and then let's continue the debate. Even on yachts, I've spent maybe 10 hours in my life. Different. I think I've been on some boat for half an hour, even with Mr. Puppy. Well, that wasn't some lobbying. And all these pictures you publish are from a time when maybe I can afford some vacation when we're in opposition. When we're in the government these days, it's practically gone. And when we're in the opposition, for the first time, no one's lobbying with us. They don't lobby at my place because they know I'm not the target. Secondly, because every time we are in the opposition, all your media writes that the SDS will never be in the government again, Janez Janša will never run the government again. Then why would we lobby with someone who doesn't have any power? So, you take care of yourself, as far as that's concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u21	Comrade Pavšič, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u22	I've been waiting for the applause to come from this side. It's expected. I checked, Mr. Janša, you didn't take over the invitation. The one I served you, we're not legally sufficient under the Criminal Procedure Act. Otherwise, the invitations we sent you from the commission of inquiry, you didn't raise. He's still coming back. And all you can do is, in fact, evading, maligning, taking responsibility, blurring, distracting, empty moralization. Not on my part, I sent you direct questions. In fact, what you're doing is creating a conflict between people, so we're also following up on the comparison with prostitutes, which the court also calls illegal and illegal. Can you imagine how great and receptive such a political affair would have been if it had happened in Germany or Austria? I'm sure there would be consequences. But you don't even want to answer our questions. It is not surprising, therefore, that some people who know the political scene in Slovenia label this activity as the most immoral act of domestic politics so far, because it is about health care, it is about money for patients, for children, for the elderly. Because in the first place, it's a diversion. Position, opposition, power, you can't deny it. To the credit and payment of credit, between public and private. It is completely irrelevant, if you say so, for the pursuit of left, right or middle policies of the past or present. We should all answer, all those who have implemented such a policy. Say something about the subject, current or past, do you personally know who violated these laws, who was lobbying illegally? Show them, and we'll chase them all, but don't stay away from them, and don't get carried away. After all, you were on this yacht in August 2016, with two businessmen and this contact you did not report to KPK. So you lied to KPK. So what did you get for this ten-hour enjoyment on this yacht? What did you get out of it?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you can complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u24	It's sad that we're in a situation where we have an opposition that's all we can do is flash in some old paintings. There is a lot going on in Slovenia, and I think next year will be very important elections, and it would be time to start competing with programs, concepts, how Slovenia will work together to make progress faster. Because at this time, when you're dealing with old paintings, we've created a real basis for it. I don't know if you noticed today's data from the State Statistical Office in this joint – last year the average wage in Slovenia increased by 5.4%. As early as the first year of this government's mandate, pensions increased by 7.7%. We have record low unemployment since 2008. Last week's economic growth is 2% higher than last year's downturn. Thus, we have some real basis for increasing prosperity and, given that we are living in parliamentary democracy, I think it would be appropriate at this time to start competing in who will take better advantage of these opportunities created in the future. It's not like we're wasting time beating up empty straw and kicking an empty can, which is nothing. If you had any evidence that something was wrong here, you'd have drawn it a long time ago. In addition, see, if you are so against corruption in health care, the coalition has introduced a law on a different way of public procurement that will systematically disable any similar impressions you make and expect to be Hic Rhodes, his salad! and that you will support the law and that there will be no future or theoretical basis for such discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavšič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u26	The law you mentioned won't stop it, but it will make it possible. But that's another story. Blurring, that's all we've heard today. Just fog and fog blowing. In addition to all the selective statistics that you choose very favourably for yourself, we would say that we also have many of these health tycoons bought by yachts with public money or cooperation with the country. You didn't personally sign contracts here, nobody tells you that, but you let someone come to that. We haven't received any answers, none of them have been answered, and there's no answer. In this, we probably agree that these are very obvious. And there is a reasonable suspicion that in the case of your silent association with lobbyists, businessmen and health tycoons, at least for political responsibility. Whether the National Assembly will renounce its constitutional right in response is in fact your decision, respected colleagues and colleagues. I therefore propose that we open the debate on the role of the President of the Government and his replies and get the final answers. This makes it possible for us to have rules of procedure, and this is our duty, our constitutional duty, to either completely dispel all suspicions or confirm them, and finally in this country, it can happen that someone takes responsibility for the irregularities that are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by the Prime Minister of the Government. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Prime Minister Janez Janša! A few moments ago, you said the opposition couldn't do anything but open up the past. President of the government, that's not true. You have before you a new proposal for a law to promote the construction of public rental apartments, which was tabled by the entire democratic opposition days ago. Surely there is an interesting challenge before you whether this proposal, which I think is good and urgently needed for the whole country, will be able to support or not in the coalition. Dear colleagues and colleagues, young people in Slovenia face severe housing poverty. We could say that there is a housing crisis in Slovenia. Thousands of young families of both the lower and the middle classes can’t handle a housing problem, let alone provide a suitable home that they can permanently benefit from. Especially in Ljubljana, as well as in other cities, the rents are soaring, they are rising from day to day. Not to mention the possibility of buying apartments. In fact, the apartment can afford only the elite, those who can give four or more thousand euros per square metre to buy a new apartment. This situation has proved to be even more horrifying during this health crisis, and it is essential that something is done in this area. As I said, we have introduced the Social Democrats into the procedure of law following the example of Vienna. As you know, in Vienna this housing problem is exemplary. The city has been run by the Social Democrats for many years. The law would allow tens of thousands of rental apartments to be built over the next six years. The amount of rent would be around €350 per 65 square metres in Ljubljana. To that end, we would have committed a billion 300 euros in these six years, most of the funds would have been based on repayments and guarantees, and some would have been grants. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Are you prepared to support such a legal solution? I think that, above all, young people expect some concrete solutions from the government. It is not enough just candy and promises at the level of some declarant positions to take care of young people. We must resolve this issue together as a society, not split into opposition, coalition. This is a matter that needs to be resolved. By the law of Jasbinsk during your government, the entire public housing fund was sold out, privatized. Unfortunately, the market has been abandoned since then, which is bad and unacceptable. Prime Minister, you're on the move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It's a very important topic. But since you mentioned at the end when this fund was sold out, it wasn't the Jasbinski law. The Jóbinian marriage was different. The Jóbinian law predicted a 50% payoff. Then Miran Potrč from the SD collected signatures for the amendment in the then assembly and based on this amendment, which was then adopted, but was not proposed by the Demos government, I actually think that 150 000 dwellings in Slovenia were donated mainly to those who lived in it. But who has come to an apartment in the previous regime is likely not to have to explain, and in what way and who have come to better dwellings. Then some comrades bought a house in Murglah for 35,000 marks. So much for history. However, if the law adopted by the Demos Government were to be adopted in its original form, a huge housing fund would then be created, from which we could still build dwellings. So much for historical correctness now. As for the promise of building 10,000 dwellings in the future, the honourable fellow Member would remind us that we always hear this promise before the elections of the party he represents. For example, on 11 August 2008, his party published a pre-election manifesto, where they said that the Social Democrats would first take care of the accelerated construction of non-profit rental apartments in public property, housing units and so on. And I'll tell you how many of these apartments you've built, and you've been from 2008 to 2020, with the exception of one year, all the time in the government. Okay, for the first years of the economic and financial crisis, it's understandable that it couldn't be much invested, but that's the second topic, I'm going to say for the last five years. In 2015 132 dwellings, in 2016 none, in 2017 102, in 2018 73 and 2019 33. 340 in five years of the rule of the Social Democrats. For the next five years, the Housing Fund will put nearly 4,000 apartments on the market on the basis of projects already under way. So, more than 10 times what you've built in the last five years. In addition, we raised the averages for Slovenian municipalities, so municipal and city housing funds can be invested. Over the next five years, they will add more than a thousand 500 apartments from these funds. So, from projects already under way, from funds planned and to a large extent provided, some tens of millions from the recovery and resilience plan will actually be built over five thousand dwellings in the coming years. And these aren't just promises, because this is already happening. I think that only this year will more public rental apartments be built than in the last five years. There is, however, a mistake in planning so far, in addition to saying a lot and doing very little, in that the apartments were mainly built in the center. This increased centralisation, emptiness in the countryside, because young educated people go where the living conditions are. Instead of following the Declaration's policy of equitable development, we have centralised it. In addition, the apartment in Ljubljana is more expensive than in Mozir or in Murska Sobota and so on. So I'm glad things are getting better now. I can tell you by the municipalities where apartments are now being built and fortunately they are not only being built in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Koprivc, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Look, Prime Minister, I thought that's how you'd respond. However, I had every hope that, given that we have approached correctly and that you will ask a specific question, in some way, you will remember all those young people who are still watching this encounter through television screens today and who want some concrete solutions, and you are going back to the past. And you're going back to the past, just as you told my opposition colleague earlier, you're actually doing exactly that. You go back in time, you tell me what hasn't been done. You know, it seems a little perverse to me that you've been in this policy for 30 years, and you're going to tell me, who I am for 3 years, what wasn't done, that I initially said that it was important for the entire political class to agree on what a priority was. Housing policy, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, even in the days of your governments, when you led them or when you were part of the government, it was not a priority. Let us step together and I would like to hear from you that in these few months when you are still in power - unfortunately it is not in our hands when the elections, if there were, would be an election - you would say that you will do something concrete, that this proposal, which is made by the Danish example, will be supported and that we will open the door next to those dwellings that are being built, and we know that they are being built, will give you the opportunity to build another 10,000 new apartments. But unfortunately, this is not a priority for you. Unfortunately, this history of 30-year attacks, conspiracy theories, insults, cynicism and so on will continue for several months while you're in power. But this is the biggest damage to Slovenia. And that's why in Slovenian society the state of the spirit is as it is. I think it's at the lowest point since 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I didn't start by mentioning the Jazbin law, I just answered what was asked in the question. As for ongoing projects, these are not promises to be forgotten one day after the elections, but are as follows: Novo Brdo Ljubljana, almost 500 apartments; Gerbičeva, 109 residential units; Pod Pekrsko gorco Maribor, 400 apartments; Long Bridge Ljubljana, 40 apartments; in Kranj 187 apartments; Jesenice, 43 apartments; Koper, 90 apartments; Lukovica-South, 80 apartments. Purchases at a public invitation to purchase apartments and plots for the construction of dwellings in progress: Slovenj Gradec, 87; Lenart, 10; Kočevje, 76. Mozire, 24; Radenci, 10. Slovenska Bistrica, 31; Upper Radgona, 10; Pesnica, 24; Mežica, 19; Črnomelj, 30 apartments. Then there is funding in the provision of public rental apartments: at Novi Brdo 674; Celje, 128; Rogaška, 10; Braslovče, 4; Ravne na Koroškem 22. This is partly covered by its own projects, partly by additional units. In view of the fact that, as has already been said, the government has increased or increased, together with the budget for this year, the average municipalities, it is currently only from the Ljubljana Housing Fund in the construction of 1,044 apartments and many more from other Slovene municipalities, where these funds are also intended for the construction of apartments. We are talking about the period from this year to 2026. It is said that this goal can finally be achieved by 10,000 dwellings over the next ten years. Only money will have to be spent for housing, as we promise before the elections, and not for Metelkova 6, as we do after the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, mags. Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President. Look, this cynicism is really high. This is unacceptable and unacceptable and has nothing to do with housing policy. That's disgusting, what you're doing. But I would like to point out, Mr President, that you are deceiving the public. Now you've been reading for three minutes a list of apartments that will be built that have nothing to do with non-profit rental. In the end, you mentioned a few apartments that are for non-profit rentals, other apartments are marketable. And this has nothing to do with the non-profit lease itself or with the law that we have proposed. We want to increase the non-profit housing fund, which is one of the lowest in Slovenia compared to other European countries. And that's what we should be investing in. Finally, I thank you for commending the Ljubljana Housing Fund. Indeed, Ljubljana has made the situation in Ljubljana even worse in this area and without the MOL public housing fund. But fortunately, they are so self-initiative that things succeed despite the macho attitude of the country as well as to drive. It is also true that by allowing for a slightly higher debt, it has become a service to housing funds. And we don't deny it. We just want the upgrade. We want to provide additional funds and systems to enable the construction of a larger housing fund for non-profit leases to begin. This has been done along with experts in this law, following the example of Vienna. And you, Prime Minister, haven't given me a word of reply as to whether you're willing to support such solutions, you don't need this law, this kind of solution, but you're turning things around like you know, and manipulating. That is why I would ask, Madam President, to put to the vote my procedural decision to discuss this very important subject. But we may succeed, or hope is very little, but hope dies last, yet any coalition representative from Janševa's party or from his satellites can convince that however investing in housing is important and that young people must be a priority, not a story from the past, not a heroic story and so on, which the SDS party is always talking about, but the future. And the future is based on the young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The following question will be asked by Luka Mesec to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Dear Mr. Janša! I won't morally preach to you because it's not my place to judge who you hang out with in private time and who you don't. However, I would like to point out that, given that you have been practically in leading positions in this country for 20 years, most of the time you have been either the leader of the opposition or the Prime Minister, you owe some clarification to the public about your contacts with two lobbyists and suppliers in health, Boža Dimnik and Andrej Marčič, who, at the same time, have jointly turned to the Slovenian state about 300 million euros in business with Slovenian health. You are obliged to explain what you were negotiating there and whether this had any impact on your policy and on the actions carried out by your client. You're saying you didn't report these contacts to the anti-corruption commission because they were random. But these coincidences were a little too much. A coincidence in New Zealand, a coincidence in Mauritius, and a coincidence at your house on the weekend, and a coincidence on the yacht, where you must have gotten so bored after one lap that you sat on the couch and started watching the teletext. These coincidences were a little too much for anyone to believe. The second time we think about things, about the client's program, about the operation, we always have to wonder what's there and what's not there. I've been talking about your work since I've been here, and I've seen a lot of complaints about health corruption, about how hundreds of millions of euros have been draining through supply networks from this health system. But what's interesting is that I haven't heard the names of Marčič or Dimnik from your party. Not once. While these two people are one of the main suppliers in Slovenian health care and that they are also the ones who bought what they bought, at least partly with money that came from Slovenian health care. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Janš: Can you be sure that your meetings with these two people had no impact on SDS policy? If I look so far away, I'm beginning to doubt if I'm being a little cynical, in that story of your uncle from the background of Janez Zemlaric, who draws millions from Slovenian health through his supply networks. I'm not saying, there's probably something on it. But it reminds me a little bit of that joke about how to rob a store on the right side of the street, so you scream someone robbing on the left side and everybody looks over there so no one can see that they're on the other side of Dimnik and Marchich. So I'm interested, Mr. Janša: How do you comment on the impact of these two people on SDS policy and action in recent years?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u40	As far as belief in coincidence or Marx is concerned, each one has his own conviction. Now everyone can believe their own, and we can talk about it in a free country. However, when it comes to some serious charges, it is likely good to deliver some evidence. Especially if we have a programme that shows how much a company has done business with the country and how much it has earned. And the names you're mentioning have significantly more served in business with the country during the time of the left governments, even at the time you were in the government. Those are the facts. As far as corruption is concerned, Mr Kordesh probably gave you some advice on this at the meeting, but I wouldn't give you much. Speaking of which, there's a law in the procedure concerning medical supplies. The Commission of Inquiry on Health Corruption, led by our fellow Member, Jelka Godec, has discovered very many people with fingers in marmalade, provided these evidence to the prosecution, and nothing has happened. Nothing happened. Perhaps one of these gentlemen would have fallen out if the competent authorities had begun to investigate, but nothing had happened. If you know any tycoon with a yacht, not just a tycoon, as you say, or anyone who's a medical professional and a member of the SDS, show it to me. However, if you know any member or any supporter of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which operates in health care and has a yacht, please show it to me in particular. It's strange that they're lobbying with us, we're providing them with jobs, and then they're in SD, LMŠ, LDS, in Zares. That's amazing! Wasn't Mr. Miklavčič even the Minister of Health? Wasn't Mr. Miklavčič very Minister of Health in the Left Government? As far as I know, he's Mr. Dimnik's best friend, not me. I've met Mr. Dimnik many times in my life. He was also, as you say, dealing with these things, at the World Slovenian Congress at the time of independence and helped to gain international recognition. During our first term, he was president of the Croatian-Slovenian Friendship Society, where we also participated in some of the border matters. So I've met him many times, but we've never had a conversation about health. Some people have more roles in their lives. And it's very interesting that so far there has been nothing wrong with these people. Now some pictures have been published, and, here, now it's all wrong. We as a party have been in governments less than a third of the time since 1990. Everything else we've been in the opposition. There are times when you can see who's been doing some business, who's signed something, and there's a lot of it electronically. Everything can be checked and you have every opportunity. Working politics for, I'll say, emptying out your own concepts on some affairs is all short-lived. I've been sitting here for the third time as Prime Minister, listening to this in the thirties, and most of those who beat up empty straw are long ago at the cemetery of history.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Moon, you have your word for a request to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for being correct. True, you did not mention Levice as a party where you would be lobbyists or suppliers in health care for a reason they are not. You won't find one, you won't find one by friendship. Second, as far as Binet Kordez is concerned, see if I had anything to hide, I would probably meet him somewhere in Mauritius, not in the middle of Ljubljana, in front of everyone. Moreover, it is not too important to note that this man was a tycoon at a time when there was a picture of you with him, and now the tycoon has been gone for about ten years. Courts, prisons, court proceedings were involved. But he has something interesting to say about those times, and that's true. But back to the evidence. My thesis is that the SDS actively these 20 years, as long as you're hanging out with these lobbyists, sabotages the purchase price arrangements in health care. It's not just my thesis. Marko Night, he was a man who was close to Jelka Godec and your party, also helped with the investigative commission, was a few months ago when a working group was formed under your current government to arrange the supply prices of materials and equipment in health care, so as to first look at how much things cost in Scandinavia or in Germany before starting to negotiate with suppliers here, he resigned and in his protest letter of resignation he found that this group was designed only to ensure that his initiative for regulating prices in health is neutralized, not to make it happen. And that's just an indica. I'll go back even more. Andrej Brukkuk terminated the attempt on the single procurement system in health care. Then it's an operation table affair. There was the ex-wife of God Dimnika, the one who was involved in the mother of all affairs. Then we have the Oncology Institute where Dr. Erik Brecelj said that the SDS attacked the auditor of Dr. Sandi Ogrigik, who said that Marcic was overpaid 10 to 100 times, what he did for the Oncology Institute, to keep the contract. And in the end, there are even more stories like this and there will be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u44	When someone thinks about it, the sooner they're caught in their own trap. What the coalition has proposed as a law for a different procurement system in health is just a proposal made by Dr. Night and his group. It is true, however, that the working group that we formed from these experts, who had the idea of how to put things on their feet, and the officials of the Ministry of Health, did not come anywhere, because there is more or less at the Ministry of Health – now the current minister is working and some new people have arrived – mainly an old team that has already been under all other ministries and has blocked it. And Dr. Night was right. That is why we could not seduce this proposal in real time through government procedure and went through you Members, coalition procedures. Exactly the same proposal that you have just discussed is in the law that you are opposed to, we have heard. So let us vote for this law, and for what Dr. Night has proposed, we all agree that it will be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Comrade Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you. I have not received sufficient explanations and I propose that we hold a serious debate on this. What happened to these paintings may be the top of an icy mountain beneath which a huge corruption affair lies. Look, Mr. Janša, I will go in line on your involvement in the non-regulation of healthcare prices. For the first time, in 2002 and 2003, Dr Dusan Keber, the then Minister of Health, began to set up a single procurement system in health care. When you get to the area, that system is suspended. He was suspended by Andrey Bručan, then Minister of Health, who said it was unrelated. Since then, our health care has gone from having an affair. The first really big was the operation table affair. Those who remember this, you know that the order was worth 4 million euros, of which 2 million were overpayments. Who was behind this affair? Mr. Dimnik and his ex-wife. They ran this business. Then we have the Oncology Institute. Marčič is said to have earned €17 million and a half through software in a few years, according to some media reports. Because doctors and other users with the system were not satisfied because everything was not functional, they hired an external auditor, Dr. Sandi Ogrzyk, an IT professional who said publicly that he went to look at these accounts and were, as Gorenjska calls it, overpaid with forks from 10 to 100 times. Then Dr. Erik Brecelj said that SDS attacked this auditor. The auditor was removed. March kept the contract. Then the veins you're talking about. It is also interesting to see that you attacked the company Mark Medical, which supplied the vascular resistors, but now it has come to the public that the competitor of this Mark Medica was someone who was competing for his business, Medias International, a company run by the daughter of Boža Dimnika. These things, Mr Janša, are simply too much for anyone to believe in coincidences.Considering that this thirst is one of the biggest problems of Slovenian health care, besides the doctors of amphibians, which you are so keen to defend, or supplementary insurance, which, although not used during the covid crisis, you did not want to justify the payment, and it went up to the insurance company about 50 million euros in this way. All of this, Mr Janša, is an indication that your associations are not innocent and that they have a variety of policies that the SDS is leading in health care and that Slovenian health care is in the state it is in. I therefore propose that we discuss this thoroughly. As I say, we're probably looking at the top of an icy mountain under which there's a corruption affair.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. As the last one to ask the Prime Minister a question will be asked by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President of the Government! The current government has begun its mandate under severe crisis conditions. She brought the first aid package to the National Assembly within 100 hours of her oath. In difficult circumstances, she has prepared a number of interventional marriage packages to deal with covido-19. New Slovenia is grateful to be able to implement its programme within this coalition, in particular its economic programme. We are grateful to the economy, i.e. employers and workers, who, together with the country, are making exceptional efforts to carry out economic activities, to ensure that families are present in acute situations. The effectiveness of government measures confirms the figures. The European Commission announced 5.7% economic growth for Slovenia this year, almost 20% higher than the EU average. Umar increased economic growth to 6.1% this year. Slovenia is according to the criteria of unemployment between the best countries in the EU and the OECD. Taking into account Slovenia's credit ratings, we can find that Slovenia is in the first quarter of the European Union's most successful countries. The satisfaction given by the state of our economy and our countries is interrupted by the bad news from Strasbourg days ago. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the former government coalition under the leadership of Mrs Alenka Bratušek violated the rights of underprivileged investors in subordinated bonds and shares of rehabilitated banks. More than 100,000 holders of subordinated bonds or shares totalling around EUR 960 million were acquitted. So the story of bank recovery is far from over. So Damoclay's sword, which weighs about 1 billion euros, hangs over taxpayers. If we add all late interest to this, the final amount could increase to approximately the price that the taxpayers had to pay for the TEŠ6 project, which is approaching bankruptcy. Mr Prime Minister, some of the behaviour of the left-wing governments therefore pose a serious threat to the development of Slovenia. If these 960 million euros were spent on pensions, for example, they could increase the average pension by one year from EUR 720 to EUR 858 and so on. There's something else that's interesting. Practically the same part of the political spectrum, which is responsible for the damage to 100,000 teenagers, is today forming a coalition against reducing the tax burdens on citizens. If Slovenia fails to implement the proposed tax reform and by burdening the most creative work of our society, we will not be able to seriously improve our business environment. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I would like to ask: How do you assess the impact of the threat of such high-indemnity payments from the state budget on the development potential of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u49	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you so much for asking. Previously, Member of the Moon abused his performance in the proposal for a debate. And I'm surprised why he stopped at all when he listed this increase in corruption. Because the very top of this is his logic, and he's all the rest of the KUL Coalition for the terminator. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u51	Please, a little silence, please. Please, silence, let's hear the answer!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u52	Mr Mesco's signatures as mandate-holder were also proposed by Karl Erjavac, Mr Marčič's key. [[…]] Do you imagine this corruption? And that Ambassador Zabretov was the wife of the supplier of these operating tables during this intense affair with the operating tables. This is only corruption after this explanation. It is said that these are the criteria by which you choose the candidate for the term. Now it's more of a joke. What Mr Horvath is asking is of course a bloody serious matter. At this time, Slovenia has high economic growth, low unemployment, a stable international financial situation in financial markets, billions of grants for investments under the Recovery and Resistance Fund, and we can do a lot of things that we have not done so far. In addition to digital and green transformation, we can make up for the many gaps that have emerged so far. But there are certain risks here. One of these risks is that skeletons fall from the closet. This judgment of the European Court of Justice concerning the disenfranchisement of subordinates does not, of course, direct the State to repay them, but it clearly states that that decision was illegal because it did not allow legal protection and that they have the right to do so. And of course we know what that means. Sooner or later, accounts will come up whether there will be a settlement and we'll pay half of it or even more, and that's a lot of money. We have already received €1 billion from the European Recovery Fund in the first quarter of last week, and that is a lot of money. Only if the subordinates reach reimbursement on the basis of this judgment will all of this money go away, will all of this amount go away for the time when Mrs Bratuškova saved Slovenia from the troika and instead of borrowing money from the European Bank Resolution Fund at a price, practically free of interest, relieved the subordinates and suspended the entire debt for the rehabilitation of banks on Slovenian taxpayers. At the same time, two more Thai banks, Factor Bank and Probank were included in this recovery package, and we have actually given or given literally hundreds of millions of euros to do so. This was the rescue of Slovenia at the time for which the accounts are now coming. Interestingly, it is a billion euro and, on the front page, the news of the old painting, which had already been published at the time, has now been rediscovered. This was the first news and today half of that time in relation to the parliamentary issues spent on this, but not for something that is, in fact, as was rightly raised in the question of the Member State, a risk that has arisen on the table and that can stop us from developing. And there are some of these skeletons. It was full of these decisions in the time of the left governments when the media did not look under her fingers, when the law enforcement authorities did not act, that everything was under control, politically controlled. But one day, bills come in. That too will come and the government is working to reduce these risks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that I have now received, by the way, another set of interventions concerning questions and answers. Of course, I also appeal here to the President of the Government, today there has been no abuse in asking questions. The only rule we need to adhere to is that the question sent is short and concise. This time, which the Member has at his disposal, allows for a little more freedom. What we have heard today is all in line with what we say in our parliamentary practice. So I propose that we be so forgiving to each other that we listen to what the Member asks as a question, even if it may have an introduction that goes a little wider than what is ultimately set. And the same goes for the answers. So I give my word to my colleague Horvath. You have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Thank you for your answers, Mr. President of the Government. Of course, property is a sacred thing. We have this in the Slovenian Constitution, and that is what the European Court of Human Rights has actually said. In New Slovenia, we strive to continue to develop Slovenia more efficiently and more cost-effectively. We have launched quite a few investments in kindergarten, primary infrastructure after ten years of vacuum. We also build homes for the elderly after ten years of vacuuming. We actually care about human dignity. We can be proud of the diplomatic successes of this government, which has put Slovenia back on an important map of Europe and beyond and so on. Of course, our priority is the business environment, we are looking at the economy, i.e. employers and employees, and, of course, health. As far as health care is concerned, I think we both agree, Mr President, that there is something to be done about the salaries of doctors, nurses. I'm interested in your reflection here, the thoughts you have within the government. However, as far as the economy is concerned, we have recently had several meetings with representatives of the economy, which raise a question or request that those economic operators who were entitled to the money assistance of the country at the time of the epidemic have been successful, thank God that they have been, and are not in fact meeting the eligibility criteria for this aid. Is it a reflection on the government that they should not have to repay this aid if they proved that they invested in development, research, or employee stimulation? Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much. As far as this last question is concerned, we are looking at a number of borderline cases. The ministry will make its own proposal on how to resolve this. Of course, there are most problems in some parts of the service sector, where it is now found that not all revenues have been recorded at times. Now it's hard to prove that there was a fall where it wasn't recorded. These are some other problems that, as far as comments are concerned, appear to be greater. With investments in healthcare from the Recovery and Resistance Fund, a huge amount of resources will be available, and we will partially provide them with our own national resources, so that we will now do everything we need to do. That is why I appeal to all of us to adopt this law as soon as possible, as you have it in your hands. I see that the opposition doesn't care because there's practically no one else in the hall. They're only interested in affairs, not development. And it's very sad, especially when we're preparing for the elections. In addition, once again, I point out that some of these health-related problems are also being resolved by the Long-Term Care Act. Actually, there's still kind of the biggest gap. This marriage has been discussed and prepared for 20 years. This government got into the hands of the 126th equation. For all these equations, millions of euros were paid at the time of the left-wing governments for various studies and so on. When we were to send forward the proposal, they ordered a new study. This law solves the problem of an older generation, which is increasing, sometimes in need of care that is not a hospital, and there is not even a care that can be obtained at home or in nursing homes. These capacities have practically never been built by Slovenia. As a result of this appeal to all when this law is passed, hundreds of thousands of people in the future will be grateful to the National Assembly for finally solving a problem that has been avoided by all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u57	Procedural proposal? No, no, no. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ange Logar, should answer the question of mags. Andrea Reich related to the activities for the implementation of the arbitral decision between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and Mag. Branislav Rajić refers to a joint statement by 18 Member States of the European Union condemning new Hungarian legislation against the LGBTIQ community. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is absent today. The messenger of the Magi. I ask Andrei Reich whether he insists on an oral answer or whether he wants a written reply from the minister. Buddy Reich?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u58	Dear President of the National Assembly, I insist on an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Branislav Rajić, who is absent today, will receive a written reply. The Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec should answer the question of Vojk Starović regarding the operation of the Maribor Air Center, but he is absent today. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral answer or whether he wants a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u60	Dear President, I insist on an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The Minister will respond to the next meeting of the assembly. Minister of Defense of Magi. Matthew Tonin will answer Juret Ferjan's question about the rights of veterans of the war on Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u62	Dear President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In Slovenia we have 67 thousand 694 war veterans today, or if I say something less than 68 thousand war veterans. The largest group represents veteran wartime veterans from both the Territorial Defence, the Police and the Manevre structures. That's about $55,000. Another major group of about 3,000,500 veterans since World War II. The MP asked what the rights of war veterans were if they were the same. There are differences between war veterans because the legal basis on which they were granted rights differs. Since the time of the former country, there have been eight different laws that have set out the rights of veterans; now, of course, in a later period, these laws are significantly less. And rights are different. Thus, the veterans of World War II have spent time in war, recognized as a double period that is considered a pension. Greater rights are also vested in those of all the various wars decorated with the highest marks, such as the mark of honor, the order of extraordinary merit, and the golden order of merit, as well as the order of the national hero. Of course, all these war veterans have more rights. The MP also asked how much the state intended for war veterans. On the basis of the budget adopted, the country earmarks some more than €61 million per year for war veterans. So 68,000 war veterans go to 61 million euros a year. The government is working to improve the status of war veterans and the people associated with this war. I'm talking about a self-sustaining war. You also know that you have members in the procedure of three different laws, namely the amendment of the War Disability Act, the Special Rights Act of the Victims of War for Slovenia, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Victims of War Violence, which will significantly improve the status of the people who have been affected in one way or another by the rule of law. Thus, after many years, we are finally correcting the injustice that has been done especially to children who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. Children who have fallen into the war for Slovenia after the adoption of this law, which is now being dealt with by the National Assembly, will be entitled to €100,000 in compensation. We will also make it possible, through the amendments to the laws I have mentioned, to regulate the status of relatives who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. For example, one of the most visible cases is that the family of Mr Šimčik, who was the first victim of the war for Slovenia and fell at the time of the Beijing events, still cannot regulate the status, because the terms of the law had been envisaged so far that this could only be regulated when the war actually started, but we all know that many activities, including, say, wars, had already taken place before that. Now with these changes, we are allowing these people to settle their status. We are also extending the period to which participants in the war for Slovenia can also impose certain health and other problems that they face as a result of the war itself. All this needs to be demonstrated medically, and if medical evidence proves to be a consequence of the war on Slovenia, they will also be able to compensate accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Ferjan, you have your word for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of Defense, thank you very much for your answer. But allow me to add a few more questions to my question. In fact, with what you have finished, I would like to continue, in the area of possible new measures, I welcome the things that will be addressed in the Assembly of State during the September session, which is the meeting that began today. I believe and look forward to the adoption of such proposals, which improve this area. And I'd like to ask you: What is your view of this, or if you have prepared certain activities at the Ministry of Defence, since in recent weeks a number of people have turned to me, for example during the war for Slovenia, so they have not been called upon, but have been involved in various activities for the defence of our country, such as the protection of strategic facilities? And the second part of the supplement, if you can also touch upon the initiative that I have addressed to your ministry in July regarding the possible permanent addition to the pension for so-called merits in the war on Slovenia as part of the increase in the rights of those who have elected our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u66	This year we celebrated the 30th anniversary of our country, which was also defended in war, unfortunately in war, where we also had victims. A large number of people participated in the defense of our country, and that was why the war for Slovenia was successful. As I said, today the status of a war veteran has 67,694 people. These people are quite diverse. As I said, those who participated in the compositions of the Territorial Defence, the Police, the Manevre National Protection Structure, then among them you have members of the Republican, City or Municipal Civil Protection Staff, and their specialised units, you also have drivers, drivers or health workers in emergency vehicles who were members of the operational team, including those who participated in the firefighting organizations in the defence of the homeland, such as the leaders of the assembly centre and a number of others. The problem that has begun to arise in the last period is that certain groups still feel affected. In particular, I can say that I have also been approached by journalists of Radiotelevision Slovenia, who, for example, reported from the first fighting species, from areas where the fighting took place directly. It's about journalists, it's about recorders, and compared to some other groups, they seem to be in some way damaged so that they can't get to this status of war veterans. I'd like to point out two things here. The first thing is that the government has adopted a special decree, where at the 30th anniversary it will give memorial medals to all those who are responsible for the independence of Slovenia, to all veterans of the war for Slovenia. At the same time, after this decree, it is possible to propose for this memorial medal that all others who have tried to do so have done great things for the independence of Slovenia, but have no recognized status as a war veteran. So we also now encourage all those who may feel that they have been wronged to turn to ministers who, after this decision, are entitled to propose these additional recipients of this memorial medal. At the same time, within the Ministry of Defence, we have also organised the Military Heritage Authority, which has an integrated concern for veterans of war, and also on the basis of your initiative, we will re-examine whether the rights of war veterans are appropriate and who else could be included.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simona Kustec, will answer the question of Željk Cigler regarding the provision of adequate infrastructure to public primary schools and kindergartens. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you so much for asking. Let me say that right at the beginning of our mandate we were informed of the needs of schools as well as of municipalities to build new or adapt existing buildings in which education and education are carried out in our country. It turns out it's actually a national project, I'll say. We almost did not identify a congregation that did not have this need. That is why we increased our initial planned funding to help co-finance the construction of school or kindergarten infrastructure at the time of the first invitation to tender on 5 February this year. Following the response that came from this call, we spent €43 million in this first round, 13.3 million on investments in kindergartens, €27.7 million on primary schools and €2 million on investments in national education. In other words, co-financing was given to 13 kindergartens and 27 primary schools per country, the ones most in need of this assistance according to the criteria they met. At the same time, when the situation was reviewed at that time, it was evident that the needs were really so urgent and that the situation in some schools and schools was so worrying and bad that it would not help anyone who urgently needed it. From this title, the Government first came to know and then decided in a single way to find additional money and to help all those applicants who met all the tendering conditions already in the first call. Then we went to the second call on 8 July this year, where we then supported additional 86 projects, 42 kindergartens, 44 primary schools and 32 million euros for investments in kindergartens, 40 million euros for investments in primary schools. Thus, an additional 86 congregations were then entitled to this aid. So I can say that at the end of this call for assistance to co-finance the construction of the school kindergarten infrastructure, which took place for the first time since 2011, we allocated 126 investments totalling 115 million euros to the Ministry of Education for the period of four years 2021-2024. Since I still have a little time left, maybe one more personal evaluation at the same time. I have also personally convinced myself on the face of the city in many schools and kindergartens how much this financial assistance is needed, whether we are talking about buildings that are absolutely no longer suitable and safe to carry out the educational process, or whether we are talking about municipalities that, because of or growing births, are also doing so in more rural areas, or whether new buildings are needed for immigration. Our primary task is to listen to all these institutions, as well as to the congregations, and to help in this way. I am pleased that all these projects have been selected and that many of them are already being implemented very actively. Last week, on Friday, for example, I was present at the opening of a renewed kindergarten and a children's institution with emotional and behavioural problems or needs in Versus, and in Rogatec we placed a foundation stone for a new kindergarten and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. You have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for that answer. Especially for the good trend that is now taking place with us. It's a good thing they found the extra funds. But I would just like to ask you a question, it's no big deal because it's about state primary schools and kindergartens, where most of the preschool children are at primary school. Look, I've been looking into some of the addresses. Things are actually running, but I didn't see any airships involved. An extremely important element that we need now or in the future. And here, where we now have adaptations or upgrades and new constructions, I personally assess, as in this National Assembly, that this issue should now be built, because it is very important. I want to know: Will you agree on or request operators to include air conditioners in these new buildings, and are local investors to install and further co-finance them? I have to say, I looked at it, the Celje Gymnasium - the Center itself in 13 of the 33 classrooms with its own resources, which it acquired, installed the air ventilators. This is not a large amount, but a job in the premises in today's situation, I don't know what will follow the covidu, but this is an extremely important element. Only if, please, you can tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u72	I certainly agree with you. I estimate that all responsible operators, designers are aware of this and that they have also somehow taken into account or added to their proposals. But let me just say that this is about investing in self-inflicted, I'll say, this infrastructure part. As for ventilation devices, this is, I will say, a technical expert question as to how much this may already be part of this type of infrastructure adaptation or involved in construction, how much this is something that can be used to prevent the transmission of infections, such as wearing masks, and so on. In such other cases, this also applies to all schools and kindergartens which are not currently in this co-financing package, and we have also made it possible for the money they receive monthly to codify school and kindergarten measures to be spent on purpose for these purposes, i.e. for appropriate ventilation facilities. This is something because it is actually at school and kindergarten management to decide with representatives at community level what they will choose, what a particular facility needs, what kind of technical equipment, so that we cannot and must not standardise. At the same time, this is also an exceptional technical and technical issue in the sense that, with the help of the NIJS and this part of the epidemiological profession, manufacturers decide on the most efficient, optimal purchase for each building, for which these ventilation systems are also installed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Brickler, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is that the matter be dealt with at a future meeting of the National Assembly, with full respect for the funds provided for it. I just want to say that in the place where I come from, there were some measurements of the proportion of ppm particles in the classrooms and it actually found out what has already happened several times, after six thousand ppm particles after ventilation is in the room, the conditions for working in the school are very difficult because there is no oxygen for the brain, if I may say. However, as for the covida, practically 6,000 ppm of particles breathe air, which others breathed, also potentially infected. I think that if the Ministry had taken the initiative in these new investments and reached an agreement to install air conditioners, this would be good for new investments, where new kindergartens and schools are being built up or upgraded, then an additional invitation to tender could be put in place following this practice, in other public education institutions that do not have air conditioners. I therefore propose that this matter be dealt with by our National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Andreja Zabret will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, Mr. Poklukar! For five days in our country, there is confusion, confusion, dissatisfaction with the new government decision, which provides for the fulfilment of the PCT condition virtually everywhere. We are witnessing protests, and in practice, as per the current lane, there are specific situations that indicate the futility of the decree. Clearly, the measures were not well - planned or planned at all. They were accepted just as ad hoc and without serious consideration, and in particular without the participation of the profession. That there's too little graft in the country, that we can all see and what the reasons are, you're the only one who can be asked, Minister. With a fully flawed and clientalist-oriented vaccination campaign, you have further undermined confidence in people in competent and professional terms. And who, in the end, is always punished for government incompetence? People. Finally, some representatives of the Government, we know in what way they are speaking to these people about what they are and then expect a good response and solidarity between people and the government. It's hard. Let me point out just a few completely absurd cases concerning this decision. This is an example of youth centers that offer free teaching aid to young people every week. Since the previous Wednesday, however, these young people, mostly from socially weak families, have to pay for a quick test so that they can take part in this free assistance, even though they are on their own at school each week. They also cannot access learning materials and studies, they can no longer participate in sports workshops and activities, as well as other programmes and projects offered by these youth centres. These people, as I mentioned earlier, mostly come from socially weak families and have no money for these tests. I want to know: Will you eliminate this anomaly? Then the following case is, say, an unvaccinated worker who has not gotten over the virus, it is said, has neither P or C condition, is tested at work weekly, and the test is provided by the employer. But this same worker must carry out a self-sustaining, 48 - hour, self-sustaining test in order to use public transport. And here I'm asking you: Are you aware of the additional costs you are causing and the anomaly that you are causing, and will you also address this? I want to know: Will you forgive employees in public administrations who do not meet the conditions of P and C and who cannot do work at home? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Andreja Zabret, thank you for the question you have raised. Of course, it can be said that the measures were written without the consent of the profession or without the efforts of the profession. However, let me tell you that the PCT protocol has been under discussion since May and that, finally, all the informal traffic lights that have been written about by many media have been the PCT protocol from the beginning. And this light came from the consultative group. On the other hand, it is important to be aware of why the measures are. Of course, there are measures for a time to achieve sufficient grafting. I believe that when we all reach this consensus together and together we are speaking to the widest Slovenian public that this goal will be the easiest and most likely to be achieved. We are talking about the condition of PCT instead of talking about the gradual release of measures as in other European positions, of course, with sufficient fragmentation. The aim is to cross the fourth wave of the epidemic without closing down society. This requires certain measures to ensure the safety and health of people who go to work, safety and health of people who go to school and other events. Once again, the most effective measure is vaccination. Vaccination is necessary in order to minimise the likelihood of hospitalisation, especially in intensive treatment units, which are the narrowest throat of our society at the time of epidemic control. And here again we come up with the already known problem that the epidemic is not a health problem, but an epidemic is a social problem. Therefore, by encouraging everyone, I believe that we can achieve this. Lately, since the end of June, certain health professionals have already announced that we are in the fourth wave. However, some still find it difficult to follow the pace of the epidemic that is taking place. You know that the numbers have grown strongly and that this requires action, because this is the only way to ensure health and life-saving for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as vulnerable groups are concerned, I am aware that we must take care of the weakest, because our breadth, our accessibility depends on how much we know to include the weakest in all our actions. Thus, the obligation of the PCT condition in the decree you cited has been adapted to the operators, of course in a way that employees can do so in the form of self-testing at the workplace, and for the users of the service this has been made possible in the way of performance by testing, by exempting or imposing certain costs on the state budget in such a way. This is about self-testing students and students, testing users of asylum homes, testing people who can't be vaccinated for health reasons. Once again, all the dust rises due to T. CPT are 3 letters and T is the measure that we are buying time to achieve sufficient intersection and that, as I will say, the most successful countries in Europe are starting to talk about the gradual release of measures. Here's my excuse for everyone here to do this together, because I believe we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Comrade Zabret, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u80	Minister, I understand that you are personally working very hard to improve the situation and increase the rift. Your communication is also a little different than maybe any other colleagues from the government, but it's still too late. You, as a health minister, are still responsible, and you are personally most concerned about the co-existence of the crisis and should also reach some consensus with the government itself on how it communicates. You say that these measures, or this decree, were adopted on the basis of the profession. And I'm wondering what profession that is. Name and surname. Mrs Logar, head of the section, said that they had not specifically proposed such measures. That's why I want to know: What is the profession that proposed such decrees? You also say now that the most dust is at the letter T, it's in the test. Of course, the biggest problem is this testing because it's become payable. Certain groups that are socially at risk, or even those that are not, will not be tested. We know that even if you're vaccinated, you can carry the virus. A lot of people just won't test themselves now that it's payable. And I don't know if it's the right thing to do to reduce just the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for this additional question, Mrs Zabret. What needs to be said is that the consultative group has repeatedly dealt with compulsory vaccination in this minutes, clearly addressing PCT. The consultative group has clear names and surnames. Yes, the leader is Dr. Matthew Logar, and then there are many others from at least four specialties in the medical profession. How many discussions have been made within the consultative group, also show the traffic lights or variants of traffic lights prepared by the consultative group. Also within this is the first phase, as I said, of the PCT protocol, as well as self-testing, and then also of the PC protocol. As for T, when we find that it raises dust, of course, T is the key, like I said, to buy time so that we can intersect enough. But it doesn't end the T epidemic, it doesn't end this agony that we've been dealing with for a year and a half. As far as the vaccinateds are concerned, they can get sick. Yes, it has been proven that the vaccinated can get sick, but usually a very small percentage needs hospital treatment compared to those not vaccinated. Therefore, in all vaccinations at this stage of the epidemic, as proposed by the profession, in the case of symptoms or any signs based on examination by the physician, PCR testing is ordered. As for the socially weak, to complement my response, we are trying to increase access to emergency health services and emergency procedures due to social and family problems for the most vulnerable groups. Thus, this last decree extended these exceptions mainly to a number of persons who do not need to comply with the condition of the PCT, in terms of children up to 15 years of age, persons who are involved in management, protection and employment services under special conditions are listed in the first indent of Article 5(3) and areas which are not subject to restrictions due to non-compliance with the condition of the PCT, namely emergency health services and emergency procedures for social and family problems and emergency personal assistance, as referred to in Article 5(4). The PCT was introduced because the epidemic is a social problem, so that we can all together get tools that can influence the flow and development of the epidemic and thus ensure an optimistic autumn and winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. You want a word? You have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister. Now we know that in a few days in this decree, certain things have been slightly softened and corrected. And that's exactly what I'm talking about, communication, how you communicate. Last week in our parliamentary group, we once again called on the entire government to prepare rules to prevent the spread of the Letting virus with thought and to reintroduce free testing, to which I would also like to invite you today. I also call on you to actually change the decree and allow all people access to health services and to eliminate all the anomalies that you have adopted so ad hoc by decree and in fact without a profession. Above all, I think this topic is extremely important, and I would ask, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that this topic also be addressed at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The following question will be asked by Matjaž Germany, Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear fellows! Lately, we have been faced with a worrying trend of increasing hate speech, fostering intolerance, direct threats and neglect of people, unfortunately also by our species, that is, politicians of all kinds. Above all, it is present on social networks, and unfortunately it is becoming a universal platform for spreading hatred. In the National Assembly, our predecessors, i.e. the commission created primarily to study the rise of right-wing extremism, dealt only with this. It is useless to speak and compare all types of extremism, whether political or religious, because in our society there is only one in exceptional growth, especially in recent times. In 2014, the Commission reached interim conclusions and defined, quote, "In principle right-wing extremism does not present a threat to national security, but it can change if it receives more active support from political actors." Today we are facing a special challenge. Both the Secretary of State for National Security, Mr Mahnic, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, France Kangler, and even the Director of Police, there was a direct link between them and the phenomenon of neo-Naziism in Slovenia. Dear Minister Vasko Simoniti, I'd like to say that you've gone a little further. Not only are you directly linked to funding, but you are directly supported by the funding of such organisations. If I simplify, my question is: Have you checked, in determining the conditions for acquiring the public interest status of society in the area of culture in addition to the formal conditions, whether the company you are financing and which has been directly linked to the yellow vests, and this is a proven link with neo-Nazi movements, so I am talking about the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values, acting in accordance with the law and the law, and allocated financial resources to it? If you did not do so and why did you not stop it if you knew that? What is the form of your support for such organizations? Would you do that again? Please, if you give me a concrete answer to a specific question, because the equation and generalization of your answers, as we were used to at the meeting you avoided, I am talking about a joint meeting a few days ago that we did not get any answers to the questions. That's why I'm asking you for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. At first, I would say that if I understood correctly that I was directly funding some organisations and some things. I strongly refuse, but the organizations you speak of do not finance them, nor do I support them, nor do I support them in any other way. Second of all, I didn't avoid any questions, but smart enough. I have made it very clear and clear how I feel about these matters, and it is clear from these views that my attitude towards all totalitarianism is receptive, clear and unequivocal. However, as regards the society you are talking about, to promote traditional values, it must be said that society has met all the criteria that are prescribed and has been included in the application. On 26 March 2021, the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values submitted to the Ministry an application to obtain the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest and, on official duty, the competent official obtained the basic act of the company by the Ljubljana Administrative Unit. The company was invited to supplement its application with a report on the work of the company, showing the programmes, projects and other activities. After obtaining all the documents and pursuant to Article 5(3) of the Regulation laying down the criteria for demonstrating the major achievements of the company's public interest status in education, education, research activities, culture and sport, the matter has been referred to the expert committee. The opinion of the expert committee was positive. This opinion was followed by a professional service and therefore this company operates in public and on the basis of documents obtained publicly. This company also received a certificate from the Ministry of Justice that the company was not subject to a criminal sanction. A certificate from the Ministry of Finance was also obtained that the company is not included in the criminal record of the criminal authority as the perpetrator of the offences. On this basis, an appropriate decision was issued to the company on 28 May. Whatever would be wrong with the operation, the Company Act clearly sets limits on this both in registration and in operation. If these societies are engaged in any kind of violent activity, one would say that they are trying or trying to change constitutional arrangements and similar things, not to mention, such a society is renounced and deleted, or in fact denied, by this protection to say in the notes, by the Ministry which issues such a decision. Once again, I would like to point out that the registration of a company or non-governmental organisation is carried out by administrative units which verify, on the basis of the supporting evidence, that the company will operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the applicable legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Culture shall, following an administrative procedure prior to the granting of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of culture, determine whether, in accordance with the activities carried out by society, this shall be carried out in the field of culture and shall be in the public interest. I would like to point out that no criminal sanctions have been imposed on society. The Ministry obtained a certificate from the Ministry of Finance that the company was not included in the records of the criminal authority. The potential private activities of the president of the company or members are not subject to an administrative procedure and the Ministry is therefore not defined and is not within its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Comrade German, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u90	You're right to say that you don't finance such organisations, but you do allow funding for such organisations. We pay and finance them mainly for citizens and citizens Dear Minister! The Ministry of Culture is a society in May 2021 which, as its mission, cites the dissemination of the importance of traditional values and cultural heritage of Slovenes, the creation, organisation and organization of public lectures and multimedia presentations on the subject of the cultural heritage of Slovenes. Although publicly available information shows that the functioning of society and its members is primarily aimed at spreading intolerance and hatred towards a particular community, such as LGTB, immigrants, Muslims or Jews, which is prohibited under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, Minister, the question: In what way can you reason that this same society is exposed by words such as "Hitler hero"? Dear Minister: Do you hope to show publicly how the ministry has allocated such funds to this organization — all the documentation that has enabled so-called neo-Nazis to travel to public finances and thus forced taxpayers to finance such ideologies or spread intolerance in our country? Sooner or later, you will face this reality either at a meeting or at another time when a new government will arise. Dear Minister, it will be difficult to erase the name of the direct link between your Ministry of Culture and the direct financing of this kind of ideology by public means. I ask for short answers and, once again, repeat what is crucial: Are you prepared to divulge the entire documentation on how this company acquired public funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u92	Again and again, you keep saying that this society has received public funds from the Ministry of Culture. Please, if you serve directly, because then you continue to give a speech when I no longer have a word and you will use it to repeat one and the same if you clearly tell the public clearly how much money has been received from the Ministry of Culture, when and who is signed under it. Please, if you do. Because other things when you say I'm going to have a hard time washing the name of the ministry I run, so you probably think my name too, if you don't say what you said about financing, and that is what everyone in public is saying, that's what secret words are, it's just slander. And that's clear. Secondly, the Ministry is not competent to identify the personal characteristics of the members of society and their definitions on specific issues. I hope you understand that. Because the question is, if we understand what we're saying. Some I doubt they can understand that. In addition, you know or do not yet know that the High Prosecutor's Office in the Department of Civil and Administrative Affairs has been asked to delete this society from a legal network for democracy. And you know, if you don't know, now I'm going to warn you that the D.A. has rejected this. It rejected the deletion from the register. Let's just remember this and not move that word up and down and make it look like it's something that isn't. For all other things, we have already said for the last time that the competent authorities that have this to do already by law, after all the exceptions provided for, must be acted by the state prosecutor and all the other authorities, if they think that anything is wrong, that they are obliged to give reasons after official assessment for the possible deletion and prohibition of such a society. But people who break the laws, the laws, I ask that they be sanctioned as they must in every normal democratic country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Comrade German, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I will take this procedural opportunity and call on Members and Members to discuss the need for a meeting of the working body or of the National Assembly. You're saying it's not true, Your Honor. Just the last tweet, unfortunately I'm going to have to quote this vulgarity, but the representative of the yellow vests you're allowing them to finance, says: "Fuck this police incompetently at the prefects!!" It's the last communication you give him that allows him to access public finances. What is crucial in this debate is, Madam Minister, whether after this debate we would still grant the status of society in the public interest to the same society that says that Hitler is a hero. On what I'm asking you as a question, so to reveal the entire documentation, you're returning to me to prove – you have to prove, you have to show and wash your own name. In the history of our 30-year-old country of the Republic of Slovenia, there has not been a minister who dares to finance the ideology of neo-Naziism, as you do. Over the past few weeks, we have witnessed many questions from abroad as to whether we are the only country in the European Union directly financing this kind of movement, which is in fact rejected primarily in its ideological sense. Something that should be buried in the past is coming back through the front door in our society today. We are even reminded of this by the Embassy of Germany – in fact, access to public finances and support for such work is non-European, in particular in terms of the protection of human rights, dignity, for a modern country like ours. Mr. Simonita, unfortunately this is a black mark and we need to talk about it. The public needs to know why, in what way, and how much, and whether they would have made the same decision once again if they knew of all the horrors that occur in spreading intolerance from the types of individuals in this society. Unfortunately, as we say, we are citizens and citizens who finance this work, and you are making this work possible. Dear Vice-President, please take note of my procedural proposal and put to the National Assembly a vote to discuss such an important topic as the changing of Slovenian society and the defamation of Slovenia with neo-Naziism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Without a specific request, your proposal will be addressed by the National Assembly and will be decided on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! New construction is envisaged on the Pungart Hill above Igo, which is to build a new women's prison for the whole of Slovenia for about 140 prisons. Now this prison is in the castle of Eden, and after the investment, there would be administration and accompanying activities in the castle and the new construction would be for the prison work. The Pungarta area has always been defined as an archaeological area, as Ig has been inhabited with its surroundings virtually since the time of the nomads and many findings from various periods have been discovered in recent decades. Due to the new construction, previous archaeological excavations, which started last year, were necessary in 2020 and continue this year. In my opinion, I am not an expert, but more a lover of history and archaeology, the excavations have brought incredible discoveries that are not only important to Ig and our congregation, but are also remarkable in the Slovenian scale. Dear Minister, please tell us more about the excavations at Pungart and the findings of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the plans for the future. I want to know: By what time will the excavations on Pungart take place? Is it appropriate for you to see a new female prison grow in this very place?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. At the outset, I would only say that Mr German had previously abused the procedural procedure and said all that I had said before that he would then do the same thing. In my opinion, the Lord has a problem with understanding, and this is his great problem despite his eloquent emptiness. That's all I'd say is that what he was talking about wasn't in anything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u99	Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u100	In fact, I am answering the questions and abuses of some people. That's all I'd say is that I made it clear to him to tell him where the funding came from, who financed it, and what. He didn't say any of that because he doesn't know any of it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u101	Mr Minister, we cannot deal with the case backwards in the case of procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. With regard to what Mrs Jeraiev asked, I would answer this question. There is certainly an important archaeological site on Ig, where the castle and the large town are located, which I have not known for how long, that the archaeological remains are likely to be there, and then there are the first ones — what would you say? — research as early as 2016, which then continued in 2020 and outstanding archaeological remains were discovered. The remains to simplify, from 800, 900 before our count, have been discovered the space of the Halstat culture in great measure. This space has proved remarkable because it shows some particular urbanity, so to speak, at that time, to a small settlement that requires what has been discovered, further excavations or continuous excavations that will be completed in this year at least in the work. Then it will go to a great deal of treatment and analysis of archaeological experts. In any case, this entire areal is recognized as an outstanding archaeological remnant in which ancient cultures meet, and it is some sort of a crossroads and judgment — what would you say? — in the destruction of Slovenian archaeological heritage to the extent necessary, the Ministry would certainly be in favour of maintaining this archaeological heritage in its entirety, marking it and giving it a certain advantage in the future. The Ministry of Culture therefore supports, on the one hand, the desire to redecorate the castle, which the MEP spoke of, where they are still incarcerated, I think. On the one hand, on the other hand, this entire areal, including the castle to be rebuilt, is adequately protected, preserved as a cultural heritage and presented “in situ”, i.e. in place. I hope and I think this will follow. The ministry will certainly advocate that such a space be said to be preserved, especially since it is also close to the Ljubljana Bar, which we know is under Unesco protection, and, of course, all this space on the other side of the end also represents a certain cultural and tourist potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? You don't want to. The following is Ambassador Natasa Sukič, who will question Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to both ministers! The issue is a little more complex, it concerns the fight against poverty, but it also concerns, a little later, economic aspects. In the first five months of this year, we were affected by the plaza of food and food promotions, a significant increase in food, i.e. by 8%, by 7% of vegetables, potatoes by 15%, bread and pastry, by 3%. Meat, oil, fat, acid, sugar, basic food ingredients, wheat, maize, soybean, and 30 % by weight, oil by more than 60 % were encouraged. In short, such food promotions have not been remembered for at least 20 years. Food prices have been rising for 16 months in a row and prices are expected to rise by an additional 4,5 % by the end of the year. It is clearly a global subordination effect, as the FAO at the UN also warns that food prices have reached the highest level in the last seven years. In addition to the other consequences of the crisis, the rise in food prices is one of the key factors in poverty and is at the very core threatening the basic needs of the population, in particular the socially vulnerable. The share of expenditure on food purchases is, for example, much higher for the socially weaker than the average. On average, we give 15% and the poorest 25% of the family budget. Higher food prices at higher energy prices, transport, packaging, raw materials, services and labour costs are those that have a significant impact on the state of poverty in Slovenia. The welfare of households is closely linked to the share of food expenditure throughout the family budget. The latest research by the Institute for Economic Research in 2017 shows that the estimated minimum cost of living in 2016 based on the structure of expenditure in 2015 and based on prices in 2016 amounts to 613,41 euros per month. On the basis of this amount, the basic amount of the minimum income, which is the basis for calculating the amount of the various monetary benefits, is currently EUR 402.18. This amount is, of course, coordinated each year according to price increases, but the currently defined basic amount does not take into account the fact that food basket products are auctioned more than other products and services. It would therefore be necessary to recalculate this. I'm asking: What will the government do in the fight against poverty to prevent a steady rise in food prices and basic foods? What will you do to protect the weakest, most vulnerable segments of the population? Will the Government make a new calculation of these costs, in order to encourage basic foods and to reduce the overall backlog of the minimum costs?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. First of all, I give the floor to Minister Zdravek Pozvalski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you. Dear Member Natasa Sukić, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. Your question is important in terms of the quality of life of citizens and the changes brought by the current new reality. You said the stats were well known. This year retail prices have increased. They also added higher prices for raw materials and petroleum derivatives. Umar predicts that this year's inflation will be 1.4%, food and service prices will still remain moderate. The price increase we are witnessing is certainly due to changes in global markets and the covida epidemic. Price growth in Slovenia is lower than in other countries in the euro area. In Germany, inflation is expected at 3%. The government has done a great deal to keep the economy in good condition and to keep jobs and thus the income of employees and self-employed. And this is the greatest guarantee and the strongest measure to fight what you said was dangerous. With the adoption of eight large anti-Korona packages and an intervention law on tourism, we have together made it crucial to help us cope more easily with the consequences of the epidemic and the current challenges of the market. At the end of the day, Umar predicts good economic growth, but together with responsible behaviour and vaccination, we can help to keep the economy open and functioning, and that is the key and only measure that will enable us all to overcome this crisis roughly equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Even Minister Janez Ciegler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, honourable Member Mrs Natasa Sukić, for this question. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in accordance with its competences and missions, is committed to first addressing and addressing the social problems of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, and, on the other hand, endeavours to make all forms of social assistance of the State as effective as possible and to achieve their purpose. The Minister of Finance said about the anti-Korona aid packages. Let me say that this is precisely why we automatically extended all the rights to financial social assistance and other transfers so that people would not fall into poverty and help them maintain their standard of living during the time of the coronary epidemic. In addition, solidarity allowances for various vulnerable groups were also intended for this purpose. It is true, however, that now, in this anti-chronological period, we are constantly helping individuals and families with various forms of financial social assistance, other social assistance, subsidies, reduced payments that they may impose at their competent social work centre. In case of inability to cover the costs of food or basic foods, individuals or families may apply for financial social assistance or for exceptional financial social assistance. In the area of public resources rights, the Ministry of Labour of the Income Borders will coordinate in January/December of the previous year, with regard to the eligibility of these rights, a child allowance, reduced payment of kindergartens, a state scholarship and a school food subsidy, with an increase in the cost of living during the period January/December of the previous year compared to the same period in the year prior to that, according to data from the Statistical Office, January 2022. In accordance with the law, these income limits are harmonised once a year in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] Here, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! In these circumstances, traders often decide on cheaper products imported from abroad, while domestic farmers and food producers remain in warehouses. In warehouses, so it remains at tonnes of crops, and the buying-in prices for farmers remain low, while prices in shopping centres are still rising. Some farmers have concluded contracts with stores, but they are in a smooth violation, many have credits to cover or are followed by the collapse of the farm. Agrarian economist Dr Aleš Kuhar points out that we have imported twice as many agricultural and food products into Slovenia in the last 20 years. That's the problem. I want to know: What will you do to protect farmers or prevent such speculation from traders who, by raising prices on the one hand, also increase the poverty rate of the population, as we have seen before, and eventually threaten our farmer, our agriculture and thus our economy? That's one thing. Now I don't know if I understand very well whether you've answered me correctly or whether you're going to recalculate the minimum cost of living according to everything. And if not, why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I give the floor first to Minister Zdravek Počvalski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u112	With regard to price growth, I can add once again that self-sustainment is also crucial to maintaining a stable market and thus stable prices. Our policy must therefore be directed towards supporting domestic food producers and processors in order to make their production more competitive. We can only help them in this way, because the European Union market is free in every way. In this way, we will also have a greater impact on price developments. In these areas, I believe that work is being done and that, after all, the potential of these European funds for the next perspective is also very important for food production or agriculture. At the same time, we will ensure the conservation and development of important economic activities and the care and control of the quality of our population's diet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Even Minister Janez Ciegler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. Yeah, you did a good job of listening. I replied in the first part to harmonise the revenue limits for the determination of eligibility for annual rights, such as the child allowance, the State grant, the reduced payment of kindergarten and the school food subsidy, which is harmonised by law in January. The second is the amount of the minimum cost of living. After that you also asked and here, in the area of monetary social assistance and protective allowances, the Ministry is obliged by law to determine at least every six years the minimum cost of living. This is identified as a set of food costs for which there are generally accepted standards and the reciprocal share of the total products consumed by the household for food. If the difference between the level of the new and the most recent short-term minimum cost of living is exceeded by the means of meeting the minimum life needs at the level that enables survival, i.e. if the difference is more than 15%, the Ministry will redefine the amount of the basic amount of the minimum income. However, I must mention here that we are burdening the family budgets with many measures that have come into force recently. One of such measures, which is very welcome, is a free kindergarten for another child, who is at the same time a sibling in kindergarten, and unconditional for every third and next child in kindergarten. We have raised support for the birth of a child, both systemic and one year after the epidemic, each newborn will receive 500 Euros of Coroner supplement. We have raised the parental compensation, the lowest pension, including the invalidity pension, even the guaranteed pension, so that we are also in some way relieved of the pressure caused by this increase you mentioned. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ambassador Natasa Sukič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. I would gradually suggest that, however, in the National Assembly, we devote ourselves to a serious discussion about these most unpleasant effects of coronaryism, which will strike us all in the pocket – food is being teased, as it were said, about how it might be necessary to seriously protect domestic producers, the local farmer. It is not that this is not happening; it is that it would be nice to have such an in-depth debate also so that people may become more familiar with measures that they may not even know but exist. I'm not saying they don't exist that we understand each other. I respect this, this effort you mentioned earlier, but I think things are really serious. As it has been said, for 20 years we have not faced such a ghastly rise in food prices, i.e. basic foods, basic goods. I think that such a debate would be in place, I think it should be in the interest of both the coalition and the opposition, to take a little look around, to make some kind of review over a situation that is serious and that sounds a little scary when you read this data. Please put this on the agenda for the vote. But I thank the ministers for the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Maša Kociper will ask Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u118	Dear Minister, hello! In our client, SAB, we have been supporting all measures to control the virus and reduce the number of infections throughout the epidemic, and we are also constantly calling on people to respect the measures. Of course, our task as opposition parties is also to draw attention to measures that seem excessive or even lifeless to us. In the last week, we had the opportunity to exchange views and views on current issues when you spoke to our parliamentary group, and already in the SAB party we expressed our disapproval of some of the current measures related to the fulfilment of the PCT condition, in particular those relating to the impossibility of people to come without meeting this condition to a doctor, which could of course mean restricting patients and harming their health. Then we highlighted PCT nonsense in visiting petrol pumps and public passenger transport, which for example does not even allow people to get to a doctor, and some other things. Today, however, I would like to point out two special groups, two vulnerable groups that have already paid taxes in this epidemic. The first group is youth. As a member of the Education Committee, I also attend the warnings of experts who keep reminding us of the high price that our young people have already paid for this epidemic, how much the epidemic has reached their lives, and how many cancellations that young people of the same age have not received in the past have had to be made through. I thank you, Minister, for immediately removing the condition that adolescents from 12 to 15 years of age also have to meet the condition of PCT, which seems to us to make sense. Mr Minister, we would like to ask you again to consider the relevance of meeting the PCT requirement for adolescents from 15 to 18 years of age. True, they are young people who can visit their own doctor, but this does not change the fact that it is a group that is not for health reasons, at least so I understand, particularly critical for the transmission of infection, nor is it a group that we as a society call for to be vaccinated. It is known that there is a very low intersection between them, and in this way, when they have to meet this condition, we have completely eliminated this large group of young people from public life. Young people – my son is vaccinated, but other young people – cannot now even go to the bookstore by book and many other things that we should of course do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mrs Masha Kociper! First of all, thanks for my cooperation and assistance with, I will not say to the speech, but to the empowering of the people of Slovenia on the importance of measures to combat the epidemic with, of course, the most important vaccination measure, or with the aim of achieving sufficient preoccupation. Why a protocol or a PCT decree? Because the epidemic is a social problem and our common mission is to empower all the inhabitants of Slovenia and, on the other hand, give everyone the tools to participate and help in the epidemic. It is crucial that we pay attention to vulnerable groups in this regard. On the other hand, it is also important that the PCT protocol is not presented as a problem of society, but as an opportunity of society, or if you want Slovenian citizens to reverse the epidemic, and that we go optimistically into autumn and winter, that schools will be open, that culture will work, that optimism in the economy and that as boomerang we will not experience both health and economic and all other social consequences after the epidemic. Of course, your addressing is important to address vulnerable groups in terms of protecting their rights and equal opportunities of extreme importance. Therefore, the following exceptions to compliance with the PCT requirement for children and adolescents and persons with special needs were also mentioned in the Decree on 18 September. In fact, all children, as you said, under the age of 15, are an exception to the condition of PCT, as set out in the second paragraph of Article 5. Then, for young people aged 15-18, it is said that pupils and students, because of the need for a safe school environment, are allowed voluntary self-testing by placing costs on the state budget. Therefore, persons do not have to meet the condition of PCT in public passenger transport. At the same time, it is not necessary to meet the condition of PCT when a medical emergency or emergency procedure is required due to social and family problems. This is introduced in Article 5, paragraph 4. On the other hand, I must point out and point out that in this part, adolescents are equal to adults because they have the vaccine at their disposal and can already legally express their will to be vaccinated, as opposed to children between the ages of 12 and 15. However, the exception to the fulfilment of the PCT condition is also laid down for persons with special needs, meaning that children up to the age of 15 who have special needs do not need to meet the condition of PCT, nor do persons involved in the management, protection and employment service under special conditions. At the same time, access to health services is also possible, as the health care of children and other vulnerable groups also includes health care. It is not necessary to meet the condition of the PCT for accompanying persons in access to school, institutions, centres and homes where they are educated, working or protecting themselves with their assistance. So, from the point of view of vulnerable groups, we have also extended this set of initiatives, including you, in this part, and I believe that we have eliminated possible imbalances or ensured the protection of rights for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you, Minister. As you have said, I have understood the existing conditions, although I must admit that this is really difficult to monitor and that we who are dealing with this are having a hard time following all these changes. But I would specifically like to draw your attention to two more groups in this question. One is the one I mentioned, the real adolescents from 15 to 18 years of age, and the other are — just to see what they call it — children over 15 years of age, adolescents and adults with special needs that need special care and protection. If I stop at the first for a second. Yes, you are right, they are able to decide for themselves their health status and so on, but we know exactly that these children – now I am talking about 15 to 18 years old – are completely dependent on their parents in this part. Whether or not they will be vaccinated, as well as in the work, whether they are tested or not. We probably don't expect these children aged 15 to 18 years – I have this old son, I can't imagine that he's already doing these things — he's going on his own in some legal traffic, he's going to test himself, he's going to decide these things on his own. Sometimes the problem is parents who are against testing and against vaccination. This does not change the fact that in such vulnerable years, vulnerable years — important years for development are once again completely excluded from public life. And it's no wonder they say they want to infect themselves. Secondly, this second group, where, of course, escorts are already so obliged to meet the condition of PCT, and therefore do not see the need to test people with special needs, because this causes exceptional stress and causes severe distress. It is my call that these two groups be reconsidered and that an exception may be added that will not affect the meaning of the decrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for supplementing Mrs Kociper's question. As for the other part of the question, the child or persons with special needs, I think that I have completed or answered this in the final part. I don't think it's necessary to repeat it, but it can. In particular, children under the age of 15 who are children with special needs do not need to meet the condition of PCT, nor do those who are involved in the management, protection and employment service under special conditions. It also allows them access to health services, since emergency health services include healthcare for children and other vulnerable groups. In access to health services and access to schools, institutions, centres and homes where they are educated, employed or protected, these persons have the right to accompany them, and they also do not have to comply with the condition of PCT. As regards access to emergency health services, I should also say that it is not necessary to fulfil the condition of PCT for all those in need of urgent medical care, emergency dental care or emergency treatment and emergency health care, child health care, health care for vulnerable groups, emergency and very fast health care for women in relation to pregnancy, health care for women in relation to advice on family planning, contraception, pregnancy and childbirth, care in relation to the provision and treatment of reduced fertility and artificial fertilisation, sterilisation and artificial termination of pregnancy, treatment and rehabilitation of children, students and students who are regularly trained, and children and adolescents in relation to other diseases in body and mental development, and children and adolescents with accidental head injury and brain damage, all medical and veterinary services, as well as the provision of medical services, medical care for other organs and adolescents with regard to the exchange of tissue and mental health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u126	I think we've got a deal with the minister, what we thought. I'm just pointing out what the voters are warning me about. This letter came from Mr Igor Lekšan, President of the Association of Maurits of Challenges. I'm sure you got it, too, Mr. Secretary. He says in a very polite letter: “We politely ask that you add children, adolescents and adults to the group with special needs that need special care and protection. These are persons with special needs, with severe mobility, mental limitations, rare diseases, long-term ill persons and persons with two or more different diagnosises who, in many cases, cannot even speak, are difficult to communicate, are completely inseparable and need foreign assistance, usually provided by parents, to provide basic necessities of life. In addition, testing causes them even more severe difficulties, they are afraid of it and therefore it is difficult to accept.” Either these people don't know their area or they think they're covered between exceptions, I find it difficult to say, but in any case, I think, given how much we see, some confusion and ambiguity, it would make sense to have one debate. I would therefore like to use the business opportunity to propose a debate on this issue and that we may exchange views on what is meaningful in this provision of a safe and healthy environment, and it is acceptable, but what is possible inanimately and needlessly causes ill will and resistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Matei Udovč will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! In obtaining a digital covid certificate, there was a great need for citizens to obtain an electronic identification tool. Therefore, I ask you for information: How many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are already equipped with digital certificates such as SIGNEN-CA, SIGOV-CA, SMSPASS and the like? How many certificates have been issued since the introduction of the digital covid certificate? At the Ministry of Public Administration, do you think that the holders of the SIGOV-CA employee's online certificate in the spirit of reducing costs and in particular administrative obstacles would be allowed to use it for private purposes even after the termination of their functions or employment with authorities in public administration when they move to another body in public administration? Let me remind you that this is a personal certificate because it is a personal digital signature that no one else can and must use but a natural person who has been issued a digital certificate. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Qualified digital certificates in Slovenia are issued by more than one provider, the Ministry of Public Administration only one of them, so that I continue to provide data mainly for the MJU, i.e. for publishers operating within the MJU. According to our behaviour, although data are not available for the whole country, the latest estimates are from 2017, when according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia the digital certificate is expected to have about 25% of the population. I would like to say that, after the last period, this number has been significantly higher or significantly higher. At the MJU, the number of valid issuer certificates is as follows. For digital certificates SIGOV-CA 25 000 900, digital certificates SIGNEN-CA 362 thousand 400, digital certificates SI-PASS-CA, this is for e-signatures via SI-PASS, 142 thousand 400 and mobile identities SMSPASS 155 thousand 500. As I said, the number of certificates issued increased significantly compared to last year. In particular, this increase is due to the access of users to the VEM portal and, consequently, the digital covid has been confirmed. However, as you know, the government has taken a decision to allow SMSPASS to be obtained and thus access to the portal for as wide a range of users as possible in different locations. During the spring and summer months, the number of valid certificates increased for SIGOV-CA digital certificates by only a thousand 500, but already for SIGNEN-CA digital certificates we see a difference of 80 000 800 in just a few months. SI-PASS-CA digital certificates, i.e. for e-signature via SI-PASS, for 48 thousand and mobile identity SMSPASS for 148 thousand. So, from the last 7,000 and something, we came up with 155 grand. The answer to the second part of your question. The SIGOV-CA certificate shall be an official certificate intended for the employees of the national authorities and shall be issued by the chairman. It is therefore essentially intended to exercise official powers. Although it may also be used for private purposes, when the staff member leaves the public authority, any chairman is obliged to request the revocation of the certificate and the staff member must return the smart card with the certificate and the reader to the MJU. The question was also whether we were thinking in this direction. These thoughts, whether they would simplify and how much, have already happened, but the fact that the main security reason was the problem. Therefore, the SIGOV-CA certificate can also be used for access to state information systems which are different from the various authorities, and therefore this revocation of the security certificate is also necessary for security reasons to prevent any unauthorised access to these systems. I also stress that these certificates, which are issued on smart cards, are smart cards owned by the Ministry of Public Administration and are reused on return, as is the reader, so they are placed on reverse. However, it is the responsibility of the chairpersons to report that when an individual leaves the job that he is given such powers, it is also because we do not keep records. As it is said, it is issued at the request of the chairman, and the chairman is also the one who must be careful that only the people who can have them have the right authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We continue to ask oral questions. Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, and to you, Mr. President! I don't see the minister, but I do. I think he's gonna show up because I tracked him down in Parliament somewhere. Mr Minister, for the first time, I have asked you one such question on February 26th of this year. I put A in the middle, too. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. [[…]] In the meantime, I also raised a written question concerning the work of the police in Ormož Municipality and beyond. It's probably the best question you'll ever have on your own, since you get a good look at the details. From the day the police stopped me – I will say exactly that I am talking about the supervisors of the state border – in Ormož Municipality, we are writing about this excessive surveillance of police officers in Ormož Municipality. Many things have already been answered to me, but the answers always and always bring new questions. That there will be no mistake, I do not apologize for my control, but I tell you that I cannot believe in such coincidences. I also accepted that I would obviously never know who the person who trusted and handed the data to the media was. You say there were no irregularities in the surveillance, but the crow does not rule out the eyes. After this event, I am even more attentive to the work of the Armenian police officers, and at the same time, the citizens have entrusted me with quite a few recent events. In your last written response, you provided me with information that in the first half of last year there were fewer road traffic violations, which has been said to be an abuse of statistics. I think we had a closed state for almost three months last summer, and in February it spread the flu, so people weren't exactly on the road. So there was no traffic frequency for four months. If the same data were compared to actual comparable years, it would soon be found that police officers in Ormož now or then and today exercise excessive control. More to describe an event that suggests that my question has a valid reason. The police were in control, and the local Special Ops wouldn't stop. He quietly drove to his home, followed by a police station, as if it were the worst criminal to kill at least half of Ormož. I want to know: Do you find such a police approach appropriate? I don't think so. I see I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna move on to the other part. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I will start by not wanting to answer to ad personnel, because it is always difficult for ad staff to defend or justify things, and again I would like to serve with some of the information that we have prepared or prepared for this response to the police. Regardless of how the individual assesses the need for or over-control in a particular area, I would like to tell you that we have now searched or brought out statistics that speak only of traffic accidents that have occurred because of unadjusted speed or because of the movement of the vehicle. These are the two most relevant circumstances in which accidents occur. Often, however, these accidents are related to the influence of alcohol, both of them. According to the data we recovered from police statistics, in 2021 – this is this year, not last year, when you actually have statistics, exactly right, as far as statistics are concerned, you responded correctly to the number of traffic that was in last year, and the number of casualties was lower, and the number of traffic accidents was lower, probably due to much lower road loads – if we focus now on 2021, on the first half of this year, these accidents were found to have been due to the impact of alcohol, which was 20%. This is significantly more than the average in the Republic of Slovenia, which accounts for 11% of such accidents. In the eight months of 2021 77 accidents occurred, which is no more than the average in the past years, I am speaking of course for your area. In 2020, there were 83, in 2019 90, throughout 2018 106, 2017 79. However, one person died in a car accident during this period at your end. In 2020 also one, in 2019 none, 2018 none, 2017 none and 2016 none. The same statistical ratios, or approximately the same statistics, also show a section linked to severe injuries, i.e. approximately the same number in 2021 as in 2020, while in 2019, 2018, 2017 the number of serious injuries was higher, from five 2019 to six 2017. I would certainly not want what you are asking to be linked to your assessment that the work of the Ormož Police Station is excessive or that anyone would want you personally, ad to the people bullying or stalking you. I also wanted to have an explicit explanation of how it could have happened to you more than once. Internal control has also been introduced. All this internal control has not revealed these irregularities, but of course there is, as you yourself have said, that famous Slovenian river, the crow-eye does not rule out, which means that there is still a possibility that something like this will happen. However, I must say that the sensitivity to political persons, if I say so, to any offence, is extremely high, so that I myself wonder how some things come out of the police, what you are asking yourself, how could it possibly be that the public has done it, but I think that in a society as small as Slovenia, the public actually learns everything that is political, even things that would not actually be necessary for anyone to carry them out, but from all this they are making affairs or very large affairs that are not. I also believe that it has probably happened to each of us before, that he might have had a glass too much to realize that in such a case he should not have driven, but if he accidentally had the bad luck that the police had stopped him at the time, it is also right that the responsibility for this offence should have taken over. As far as road traffic control itself is concerned — and I will now be running out of time — perhaps in the second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. However, all the time, I wonder whether at least in these segments I mention, moderate control is possible, not as strong as it has been so far and as is still going on. I will continue where I stayed to get to know you, too, that for example, one new market niche of the Armenian police – that I do not speak, because everyone is involved in traffic, but – at least in the summer – this has developed, that it is also extremely controlled in the field of tractors and their equipment and so on and so on. It's basically a distraction between work, it's amazing, it's nowhere, it's in Ormož. But look, that's all within the limits of permissibility as long as it lasts. In fact, locals are afraid, excessive controls are still, and they have a strong impact on the quality of life of citizens. At the same time, such police behaviour also interferes with the economy and tourism of the place itself. So we don't have anything here. To make the measure even more complete, the number of illegal migrants has increased, as you yourself state. Otherwise, you haven't answered me yet, but according to your data, the proportion of these is expected to increase by 20%. I can't help but wonder if I've been stopped by border police, if I'm an illegal defector or something. To return to illegal migrants and border police. The number of the latter is getting smaller at the border, but those who are staying are better off hunting local specials, citizens who are on their way from shop to home, where they are carrying a bad mile, do not belong or telephone, us who have to drink a glass at some event because of the protocol, or those who have a little bit of a heavy leg. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you once again for these additional questions or explanations, honourable Member. This year, in agreement with the Police Director, we have also decided, by my direction, to increase all kinds of control, not only those that are classical, from just band to speed, but in fact all that is necessary for transport safety or essential. At the same time, we decided, or the police were directed to the greatest extent possible, to alert citizens or our citizens. I don't know what it's like in general, we don't have this segment or this analysis yet, but I can tell you that in this year we've done as much as 35% of all the crimes that have been identified, just a warning. Last year, only 13% of these warnings were made and only 5% in 2019. So we want to somehow prepare or establish a police force that will be more friendly to people in the first step so that it is not just punishment. But there may be some problems. One of them is that, according to the Ministry or the police, a police officer cannot see whether a person who has been warned has been warned of the same offence before, I don't know, one month or three months ago. Which would essentially mean that this traceability can in some way be very educational, because when you warn someone for the first time, then the second time is no longer a warning. And every citizen, of course, would understand that twice or three times for the same offence could not be warned, but the third time, he would be punished. Unfortunately, this record is not yet due to the legal inadequacy to keep such a record, although some of the lawyers' interpretations would have made it possible to do so. As far as what you said is the problem of tourism or the economy. I think it's different. I think that both tourism and the economy want or are trying to work in a safe environment. Is it really just that we chase someone for a few miles too fast or because he drank too much, perhaps everyone has very different explanations about it? But I have to say that I'm pretty much in favour of driving without any alcohol. I know that's the problem. Like you said very nicely, you have obligations, you have to participate in social life. It is certain that it is somehow unsocial or incredible that you would not be like an MP in some environment when you are hanging out with citizens, even a glass of wine, but I think it is necessary to think things through or, in such cases, maybe have a suitable driver who will take you home.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivanus, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Minister, for these encouraging answers. However, I will insist on my own, for I still believe that this control, which is carried out in the Armenian congregation and wider or in the nearby small-border congregations, is still excessive, because in fact people are somehow — I don't know — there is no good feeling for those who are supposed to guard the nation or take care of security and so on and so forth, and that is not right. People are just getting more and more angry with the police. This is not going together, although we are talking about one and the same, according to Slovenian citizens. That's clear. So me. Besides, I had a lot to say, and not a chance to settle in those few minutes, but still. I believe that it is right to hold a debate, but regardless of the Armenian area itself, even at the southern border, there are a significant number of these municipalities facing increased police supervision. I think it is right that we should have a broader debate in the National Assembly, but maybe we can catch up, hear more. Some compromises can also occur in society, not just harshness and punishment and so on. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! First of all, I'm glad that you've recovered and that you can continue your work. The success of a government is certainly also discussed by numbers and indicators, particularly those that directly affect people's lives. This government, led by Janez Janša, certainly has good numbers, wages have risen, pensions have risen, we record the lowest unemployment, we have excellent credit ratings. But that's not all. The fact is that we have achieved all of this in the time of the so-called coronary crisis and that we have also dedicated quite a number of packages to help both the economy and individuals, and in this way we have already shown results. In short, we have made good decisions, and we will also spend a great deal of money on various investments, as much as €2 billion in health in 10 years. I am pleased, however, that we will also take a significant, major step forward in the area of education and education from 2021 to 2024, which will go into investment around 116 million euros. Something, dear Minister, you have already responded to this subject today, but it seems to me that this matter is so important, given that it has not been practically invested in education and education for 10 years, in this infrastructure, perhaps a little more because of citizens and citizens. I want to know: What projects are involved in investment in education and education? What can our children promise? Last but not least, we always say that our greatest wealth, but they were reduced for 10 years and more, but also 10 years ago, when there were some resources, they were significantly smaller than we are now talking about. So, tell us what and how we're going to spend this 116 million. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Bah Gibert, thank you for your question. Thank you also for the initial comment, under which I will also sign myself, because this is my first and main lead. In the end, only the facts and yes, numbers, data, everything else can be a decoration, one way or another. In the field of educational infrastructure, you are right. This is a field which has been somehow put on the sidelines for 10 years from the point of view of State aid. During that time, schools, kindergartens, and congregations had to help themselves, as they knew and knew. Few were the ones who were able to make a complete new picture of kindergartens or school spaces on the basis of this. Most of themselves, too, because we know that the averages for the congregations are always very close to the country, they simply couldn’t afford it. There are also various European money to ensure this, either insufficient or not necessarily appropriate for these purposes. For this reason, the Government and the coalition have already assessed that aid must also be approached in this area, aid in the form of financial assistance, co-financing. The initial assessment was that we were going to this project with 43 million euros, which is, somehow, we said, a good number, and we're really going to be able to help. When we received all the applications for this first call and it turned out that in fact all schools or all the applicants had more than justifiable reasons to submit these applications – but we could only select some of the most necessary aids – immediately after this first round, an intensive discussion started at the level of the Government on how to proceed immediately, where to find a way both from the point of view of the resources and of these grounds, that on the basis of this call, I can talk about the legal basis, to all others who meet the conditions, we can give money. Then it turns out we're still talking about an extremely high amount. This money is almost once again so much from this first round of calls, but I still think there was a common understanding that this is necessary, on the basis of this, as I have already said, many new schools, kindergartens, even in bilingual areas. You're asking me what kind of investment this is. Very different. There are some renovations of existing buildings, some expansions of existing buildings, some construction of completely new buildings. Very dependent. Let's say in Kočev we help build a new kindergarten with this money. In Verje, where I was on Friday, we helped rebuild both primary school and the institution for the emotional and behavioral problems of students. For example, in Rogatec, where I was recently, we symbolically built a foundation stone together, also for the construction of new kindergartens. In Kalobje, where we have not yet found this money, we will, because it was also a commitment, renovate the existing building, but in a way that will simultaneously build a building for the whole of kindergarten and school activities. In short, very different, depending on the needs of the local environment. This is what is very important – that we listen and that in this process we are partners both in schools, in the country or in the government, in the congregation as well as in the contractors and investors themselves. This has also proved to be extremely important in practice. Maybe we can keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you in one piece if you have any information. Let me just explain a little bit why. At the time of the so-called Sharčev government, I proposed an amendment to the state budget of the ridiculous amount for the municipality of Dolenjska, which was then the municipality of Žuzemberk, and this was a considerable amount, even since the number of the population was relatively small, a relatively large municipality, and it has huge costs associated with it, and it also has two schools and sometimes not all of them. At that time, I was answered by the then coalition MPs, or SD MP, who also had this ministry under his umbrella at the time, to appear to be incompetent mayors. To me, this was such a bad message not only to citizens and citizens of this congregation but to the fact that we were not able to listen to even such small things as they were moving for a particular congregation of great things. So please, Minister, if you happen to record them, for information on how many projects - given that we have 112 municipalities - it is about 126 projects, whether you may have today or have data on how many of these projects - will be carried out in Dolenjska, where I have also been elected and I always care and watch what is happening or what the needs of the population are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Since you have sent a very specific question in advance, we have actually been able to prepare directly for your question, so I can tell you that 14 municipalities in the province of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina have signed up for this invitation to tender, that all the projects reported, that is 11 projects, in the first call, say the 43 million, and then three projects in the second part of the call, 72.5 million total, all together, say 14 projects in the region for which you are asking, received 16 million 251 thousand 758.94 euros. I can tell you, of the first 11 projects worth 12 million, almost 13 million were the municipalities of Črnomelj, Dolenjske Toplice, Kočevje, Krško, Metlika, Mirna, Novo mesto, Ribnica, Sevnica, Trebnje, Velika Lašče. Most of the cases involved the combination, the addition of primary school facilities, the construction of a new kindergarten, the new construction of a primary school, the investment in the contribution to primary school. Just like I said before, given the current needs. In the second tender the municipality of Ivančna Gorica was also selected in the amount of 3 million to 359 thousand for the investment of the construction of a new kindergarten in Šentvid pri Stična, Municipality of Šmarješke Toplice for the investment in Šmarjet Primary School, construction, removal of the facility and extension, and municipality Šmartno pri Litija for the investment of the construction of the new kindergarten Šmartno. Also, since time allows me to do so, I would like to say one more thing. We are also making great progress in the rehabilitation of two secondary schools. We are here as a state or as a government directly responsible, there is not yet a congregation in between. And we've actually inherited two rather difficult things here. First, the Ministry's commitment to the project, which had to be remedied after the hailstorm, and the replacement after the fire of the destroyed projects of the Grm Novo mesto. Here, too, both projects amounting to 3 million and a million are actively moving forward and the final state will be restored so that the educational process can continue safely. Thank you very much for your attention. Yeah, like you said, we're here to listen and serve people. This is our first and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions. Jože Lenart will ask Minister of Health Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the time of the co-vide, we refer many questions to you, Minister of Respect. I think that's the right thing to do. I'm going to ask you a question that seems very important to me and I've already put it to your predecessor before the third wave. However, because there were no real solutions and because I expect, I also see that the problems are even bigger, they are getting worse, it is only right to renew them again. Even today, an extensive article on the 24 hours titled Third of the less-discovered cancer, the attack on the E.R., the cancellation of examinations and surgeries, the departure of nurses pointed me to this, and you commented here that it was right for me to ask you today publicly. Let me raise the question. For a good year, we have been faced with the closure of certain activities, including health care. Our health system is already so overburdened and, of course, access to health services has deteriorated during the epidemic, which will, of course, result in longer waiting periods. After a few months of normal operation, Kovida sections are reopened, where too few health personnel are transferred. As a result, medical programs or treatment of so-called invisible patients are being disrupted. Infectious patients are thus deprived of a number of medical treatments and surgery. That's the basic problem. As an example, let me also mention the data provided by UKC Maribor, several thousand cancellations of treatments, operations and so on. It's said to repeat the situation again. I'm afraid all the problems that reduce access to a doctor at the time of the epidemic are even more damaging than the virus itself. That's the basics, and that's just gonna come out. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What is your organization now, what are your actions, which will be different, which will make that move to prevent further damage in the fourth wave, even more waiting times so that people can get to a doctor? For I will say that we are all, and we can count ourselves among these, already worried how we will overcome all this so that the sword of Damocles will not come after us, which will be missed, and then we will be even more difficult to solve only the problem. We do know, however, that health is a basic condition, including a good condition for the development of our society, our economy and everything. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jože Lenart! Thank you very much for the important question, especially in view of the fact that without good health, the development of society as such is not expected to the extent we want it. When we talk about how to best manage the health situation, at the time of the threat posed by the epidemic, of course, effective control of the epidemic is paramount. Because the better we will do this, the less we will burden the resources of all kinds within health care and the more these resources will be able to carry out the basic mission they normally carry out in the absence of an epidemic. My first point here would be and part of the answer is that the epidemic is a social problem and an epidemic the health care just can't stop, it can face the consequences, but health is not infinite. That is why we need the help of every citizen of Slovenia in terms of controlling the epidemic and also addressing the issue that you have raised. Let me say that the key to controlling the epidemic is awareness in society that only together can we manage the epidemic, and therefore the CPT protocol, which provides a tool for all of us to participate together, is to empower and participate in the control of the epidemic and also in the best implementation or management of the consequences that could arise in healthcare due to the epidemic, as well as in society. The second is to relieve health care in view of the fact that, in the first place, the direct burden of health care on entry points that come at the time of the epidemic’s deterioration and, in the second instance, on the capacity needed in hospitals in order to be able to receive treatment for all those who need it. However, the key measure is vaccination, which is the most debilitating of health care. With sufficient transplantation, of course, the least people will need hospital treatment despite the epidemic. As far as controlling the epidemic is concerned. The narrowest part of health care is intensive beds, so here is where we need a common effort so that without closing down society we can manage. In this way, health care can contribute most to society itself. On the other hand, it must not or must not affect as little as possible the other mission of health, so ensuring health for all. For we know that the coworker is only one of the diseases, that we have thousands more of them, and that health care must also take care of everything else at the same time, of what is the essence of your question. The first is the control of the epidemic and, on the other hand, the provision of resources that remain in health care as such so that we can approach the implementation of everything that is needed at this moment for treatment or health. Here I am talking about both preventive, curative and rehabilitation and care procedures or services that the people of Slovenia need. Once again, vaccination is the most effective measure here. For everything we have accumulated in the past, we cannot together with the forces, I believe that we are all trying to save ourselves overnight. On the one hand, there is the human resources problem, which is pressing, on the other hand, the infrastructure challenges and the third is financing. All of these segments need to be worked out so that we can systematically place things in order to be sustainable in the medium and long term, especially at this moment in the short term, in order to survive this threat posed by the epidemic. Here we have the measures taken by the Health Emergency Action Act, then the Investments Act, wage measures, as you know, then scholarships, and new jobs can be listed. For now, if you want, I will, of course, extend the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u154	Minister, thank you very much for this answer. I'm sure you're answering in one piece, but my question was more specific to regular patients who are then lagging behind. Now I'm gonna be specific. I expected it this way. ZZZI is doing this and, of course, behind this money, as you yourself said, the finances are too small. People also pay bills for supplementary health insurance and this matter stabbed me: 612 million were collected in 2019, 514 were used and 655 million were used last year and only 503 million were used. 152 million profits. That's the money that's worrying. Here are the finances you should know how to spend. Why aren't we talking about this anymore? There's talk of these calls. At the Ministry, this call was just completed and one would expect, it was agreed that these insurance companies should then be included in this, and this should be used for these purposes, but this call only refers to €18.45 million. Where's the rest of the money? Why did he use it? Now let's keep going. On the one hand, we gave no idea of what covid supplements, we overpaid doctors, people who did not work in these offices at the time. That's what people see, and that's what worries them and excites them. On the other hand, people, doctors who could work extra – not the “twins” we are talking about – are doctors who are not supposed to work overtime because they have already gone too far – then work extra jobs in other clinics in public health institutions and work practically for 12 euro nets. Do you understand? No extras. Why not reward those who are willing to work and encourage them more? Where are these financial resources to be allocated to these areas? I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you, Mr Lenart, for the additional question. Indeed, the Law on Emergency Measures in the Field of Health has brought two specificities. One is the national call you spoke of, and this call speaks about the provision of services by the end of 2022. So the invitation that was made was not the only one we will make at that time. In the near future, we intend to repeat the call for services that have not been fully addressed and services that are emerging as a problem in our healthcare system. The advantage is that this is not limited to the end of the current year, but we have all this opportunity to carry out until the end of the next year. The advantage is also that we refer to all health service providers with any resources to try to implement this. We are aware and here all thanks for being able to do this in all of us, aware that it is necessary to do so in a cascading manner, as is the law. However, as far as this law is concerned, it has provided for the possibility of redistribution of the programme in Article 43, within healthcare providers in the current year. We are also trying to make use of reserves that are either between institutions or between health service providers, because we know that all of the epidemics are not the same or that they have more resources, and it is right to make use of them. As regards the annex to the general arrangement for this year. We are also trying to find an additional way or way in which to reward family doctors in primary health care, and by doing so and other measures, to increase access to a family doctor. That I won't be too long. As for cot additives, I believe that the rules have been clear and that any derogation represents an excess and is unacceptable. And if anything was wrong, it should be properly remedied. As far as health care is concerned, public access and universal health care is fundamental. At the time of the epidemic, once again my request and call, we must all do everything together at the time of the epidemic to ensure that it is replaced as effectively as possible, and in this way we will give the greatest opportunity for health care. For the epidemic alone will not be able to overcome health, health only faces the consequences of controlling the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I think we've just touched on certain things that we still have in reserve. Financial resources are sufficient, at least for the time being, for insurance companies in accounts that need to be properly targeted. I think that's fair. It is likely that the ZZZS itself, where certain matters do not flow, must therefore remain. The whole thing is, I would like to draw attention to what you have not touched – that there are also very good practices, which we do not know at this time of the co-vide and give them to others for good. I'll just give you one case. Diabetes was normal in all waves in Koroška. Patients were rewarded with this survey and Koroška, as far as this is concerned, received one special recognition that patients had said that it was normally available at that time, and they are happy to do so. It's another branch, but despite everything without waiting time, it's running without a hitch. There are many such practices. Why don't you use it at the Ministry and put something encouraging out so that those health teams who still have these reserves can approach and solve things in a similar way? And in order to encourage them financially on the other hand, reward them. And when the others see how things can go and how people are satisfied, the matter itself will go. They are resources, and then they must be properly encouraged. As we said before, on the other hand, there is dissatisfaction because it is unfair; they are rewarded, for example, in other areas, even where they should not be at all. Of all the problems we see, they are not yet solved, I see it is reasonable to propose a general debate to make this matter even more widely presented and to find additional solutions with invited guests. Because this epidemic is what it is, and I think we should solve things even more concretely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Member only Bevk will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 states: “At a time when distance education was carried out in Slovenia due to the coronavirus, we have warned the Ombudsman that all students do not yet have the same opportunities to learn. In general, we have also observed that the measures envisaged to limit the spread of coronary disease may have a major impact on socially excluded vulnerable groups." The Ombudsman also noted that distance learning was largely based on access to information technology and provided for the active role of parents who had thus taken on the role of teachers to a large extent. Furthermore, the Ombudsman reports that in Slovenia there were hundreds of families who did not have access to the Internet, either to the computer or to the printer or even to the paper. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport last week, State Secretary Damir Orehovec said that, according to a November 2020 survey, about 5,000 students did not have access to the Internet. So much more than is stated in the report of the Ombudsman. That is why, Madam Secretary Simon Kustec, I ask you: How do you comment on the uneven learning opportunities in 2020 in the Ombudsman's report? What measures did you take at your ministry to ensure equal opportunities for all pupils and pupils during the Coronavirus epidemic? What measures to avoid the unequal situation of pupils and pupils based on the material situation in the school year 2021/2022 have you taken? How many students and students and students today still do not have a remote learning computer? Thank you very much for all the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Bevk, thank you for this question. You are, in fact, opening up the fundamental and at the same time the most fragile issue of the operation of education and education, not just at covid time, at all times, it is the care of the most vulnerable parts of our students and students. Of course, long-distance education then increased this part of the problem and concerns for several reasons. The first is confidently linked to the accessibility of information and communication technology, which was a fundamental prerequisite for the smooth implementation of distance education during the period when this had to be done. He explained something here. Special instruction and guidance have already been given at the outset by the Institute of Education, the professions, I will say primarily psychological-social, and also through our districts and our orientations to give special attention to these groups of children. These children can recognize schools and their teachers. That's the most basic level, the most direct level. According to the information, according to the data we have been monitoring very closely all the time in our contacts, in communication with schools, this has always been the case. But, of course, there were problems. The problem was that these children or their families were often unresponsive, and it was difficult to reach them. This was a human emotional aspect of the problem, which also needed to be tackled in one such highly professional, careful way. Another aspect was the aspect of technology and equipment. This one was in a way, if I may say so, easier to eat. We are very fast, immediately in the autumn or immediately in the spring first, then in the autumn and still – the question that you are also opening, what we are doing now – and we will pay great attention in the future to providing and providing means for information and communication technology. Right now, we are going to spend over 16 million European money to get another 100,000 Lapsus linguae Samo Bevk. transmissions and other information and communication technologies necessary for distance education. We're talking about modems and so on. Many of the children in this group who live in remote areas have also had problems with access to the Internet. This part was then activated in cooperation with the competent Ministry of Public Administration and with Arnes with the other technical support groups involved. In fact, we have done everything we can at a given time. And we're doing this part right now. However, the part that is linked to professional, learning, software and attention is the direct one that is in the hands and in the judgment of individual schools and their collectives. This is also the case all the time that we have been instructed that, in the event that they need any organisational assistance or guidance, they may contact us immediately, in the professional, substantive sense of the Education Institute and, in the sense of additional operational assistance, the competent ministry. Maybe we'll continue in another series of questions, because I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Madam Minister, for the answers to the first part of today's question. It must have been a lapsus before you mentioned the number of 100,000 laptops, because somewhere I've tracked the information that it's 10,000 laptops that are supposed to go to the addresses of about a thousand educational institutions. For we don't have 100,000 students who would be deprived of access to computers. But in this second part, I would have another question. As a result of the virus’s intrusion into schools at the beginning of this year’s school year, there are quite a few sections in distance schooling. I don't have accurate data, but probably a thousand, 2,000 or more students. That's why I'm asking you: Are these students provided with all the infrastructure required to carry out distance learning? What are your projections, will you keep the students in school, or will you send them home again to learn from a distance? The Minister of Health said in the previous days that the outbreak would peak in mid-October, so I am interested in what this means for school projections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Yeah, sure, 10,000 pieces of laptops are the ones that are coming right now. Before that, however, there was a large number of other pieces of equipment that we had made available in this good year and a half. And not only to the students, you know, this is another thing that I wanted to put out in particular, but also a large group of teachers was in similar difficulties, which were then more than excellent, I will say, added with additional education, with all that they offered, both the Institute and Arnes and other providers for long-distance education. As far as your current question is concerned. Indeed, like the general situation of infection in society, this is also reflected in the school space, which means that if we had slightly less than 100 primary and secondary schools two weeks ago in quarantine, we already have 500. We really need all the care and attention to control these numbers. And it's back at individual level, at school level, that this first control, actually, I'll say, can successfully control or respond to it. I must say that I am in constant contact with principals and principals of primary, secondary schools, including kindergartens. We do not yet have a school that, due to the condition of infections, should go to the so-called model C, a model of distance education, but manage the situation. In some cases it is quite difficult, especially where more infections are concerned, but in these cases they are later quarantined, and the part of the sections or classes is safe for a certain time, when the time is quarantined, in distance education, in the school space. These things are working right now and I think that a responsible approach can continue to work. This is what will allow us to stay in the school premises, which is what I want most of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Can we move on? [[Yeah.]] Good. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, chairman. How nice to meet you, Minister! My question will be to continue, as I can see, what has been pointed out in the predecessor. Otherwise, he went to the technical part more, and I'm going to go with a more substantive question. Since the new school year has already begun and a new school year is about to begin, I am curious: How many positive practices that have proved effective and have been well received between students, students and students in the past school year during the epidemic period, and therefore changes need to be made quickly, will continue to be applied in this school year or year? Here I am referring not to practices that will only be applied in the case of quarantine, but to those that will actually be introduced into the process of education programmes, including the implementation of these programmes. I ask the question because, on returning to school, education is carried out beyond the established, old tracks without visible changes, which have proved to be good in practice and have been adopted quickly by students and students. This means that the knowledge they have acquired in both the field of information technology and in the field of full digital literacy and new learning methods is lost. We are talking a lot about how educational programmes, as well as the way in which modern technology can be taught and used, which could completely change and facilitate the implementation of teaching and, on the other hand, the adoption of a new substance, should be reformed according to the content. Since I want good practices to be implemented as soon as possible into the school system and to continue with what has been introduced during the epidemic and has reaped results, I point out only a few of these good practices. Here I am referring to the inclusion of substances in online classrooms, the interpretation of new substances via video, where students and students could repeatedly turn their interpretation and thus come to a better understanding of the implementation of the procedure in accounting operations, and then the verification and evaluation of knowledge, the use of online versions of work volumes and textbooks, which has proved to be particularly good in foreign languages for pronunciation, since in addition to classic textbooks, there are CDs that are not available to modern computers as read units. In addition, the implementation of lectures in higher education institutions and universities over the years could also be listed. In short, I am not interested in this part of putting responsibility on the Institute of Education, but in what the Ministry will propose or what it intends to introduce as good practices that have proved to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member Zavadlav Usaj, thank you for your question. First of all, this is a professional issue to which a policy must have a more or less neutral, non-contrary relationship, but, of course, all these professional recommendations, when adopted and offered in accordance with the relevant procedures, must be followed. This is what we do with responsible policies. This is what we do with ourselves. We have several levels of professional guidance and decisions or assessments. When it comes to really systemic changes, they must follow the most long-term, most demanding professional procedure. This means, through the evaluation of the Education Institute to the opinion of the Education Council, and on this basis, we can also make a decision. A decision that can in fact be of a programmatic nature is, as a rule, a systemic decision, also linked to the amendment of legislation. This is what you ask most thoroughly in your question, the real change in the mandatory programme of objects, emphasis and so on. However, there are certain other processes that can actually be done already in progress, as soon as it turns out to be feasible. These are processes that can only enrich the execution of an individual subject, an individual kuriculum, without having to change this curriculum. In fact, this occurred at a time of distance education or at a time of education during the coronation period. There are a number of professional guidelines, recommendations, including materials that both the Institute of Education and teachers have made themselves available in some schools as some tools or as a means of enriching the existing way of providing knowledge. By the way, let me also say that, just last week, the European Commission, Commissioner Gabriel, awarded for the first time, the first prizes for innovative teaching and that five of our schools received this award. Here are some processes, some tools that can be used directly. In such cases, in fact, there is once again a decision on the part of the school, on the part of the individual teacher, how much and how he will use it. Some teachers, some schools, as they say, are developing such tools themselves. If I read to you a little bit more, what was at the level of the Institute for Education, this fundamental, central professional body, what was exposed during this period or changed to a better process of education and education. Unquestionably more emphasis is placed on establishing a positive climate, an integrated approach and development towards education and education processes, for example in the area of preschool education, a reliable adoption of children's skills and activities through the game, through creativity, an emphasis on reading, emphasis on opportunities to move, especially in nature, now that it is necessary to avoid closed spaces, on communication, on the flow of communication, on information, on channels running from students to teachers as well as on parents. Then good practices in the field of psychosocial support, promotion, as it were said, of some constructive collaborative interaction, great encouragement for the preparation of annual work plans, advisory services, the role of peers in the planning of class hours, administrators across the parent world and so on. Perhaps in the second part, I can mention further such specific practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you. Thank you for that first part of the answer. I was just curious about what you were saying in the second part. For the first part, I know that in fact the major changes in the programmes themselves are longer, but we also know that there are changes in the education and education programmes currently under way. That is why they have truly commended these five schools that have received the prize, especially because all of us as parents know what it means, if the school is quality and if modern technologies are also used and what these new technologies bring us. That is why I think that much more energy should be invested in this second part, this part that can actually be processed in primary and secondary schools before, especially because it is really a waste of this knowledge that students and students have acquired. Above all, we see big changes in the plus, if we talk to students and students alike. In fact, many say, “How much easier it was for us because we had all the substance in the online classrooms!” But we also see between parents, when we talk to each other, that actually now that children are once quarantined, once they're not, these online classrooms are flawed, which means that some of the substances are in there, something is not. And also access to materials, to textbooks in electronic form, I think it is quite welcome, as I said in the first part of the question, because they have actually been usefully used and the children have been making progress in learning. From this point of view, I would like to stress this that it would make sense to introduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Maybe some more explanations. It is also now in the role of the President of the Council of the European Union in the field of education that is in fact our central theme, the so-called combined learning. There are different approaches to the supply of knowledge that are most optimal. It is called an absolute school still as a primary space, but those parts that can, which are more encouraging and which can also be passed on to the so-called digital part of education, then let's say education in nature as well as something. The combination of what we say for a number of years has been practiced through the centres for school and school activities. We also have a lot to say in these debates at the ministerial level of colleagues across Europe, because we do have a lot of good practice and we are still working on it. For example, in this period, the Institute of Education has electronicized all curriculums for primary and secondary schools. Then, this summer, they added all available electronic materials, electronic textbooks, work volumes, additional materials used and made available by different teachers in different schools. So that all of this is already available in this system and can be used by teachers and, of course, students as a result. In this way we finally arrive at something called an e-learning bag, which will in some ways not only from the financial, but also from the perspective of the burden of the weight of the classic school bag will unload this space and make it adapted to the generations of our children, who are certainly different, live in a different world. Nevertheless, we must, of course, have a fundamental mission of the school, a way to impart knowledge, how to strengthen it, how to test it, how to preserve it. This is what we do especially during this period in a softer way. There's a lot of knowledge checks before the classic evaluation at the end. In short, even in this sense we are somehow coming to schools close to this approach, to the soft, emotionally adapted and difficult times in which our students live. The combination of all of this I believe that it is the one who brings as good results in these difficult times as our students and our students then end up objectively showing with their knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary! The fourth wave of the epidemic is in full swing, we can observe it, not least you yourself have been predicting in the summer that the fall will be difficult and will also be an appropriate high number of infections. The reasons why this has occurred can be found in various places. I'm sure one of these is the disastrous conduct of the government's vaccination campaign. They were limping about organization, performance, online applications, planning and so on. I'm not going to speculate on why these problems are happening, in fact, we have one other key problem, that's that some people just don't want to get vaccinated. I think that this may be a question for another time or a very wide debate for another time, but I'm sure one of the key roles here is the government or the government's inability to properly persuade people to go into vaccination and try to reduce the growth of these infections. For I do not believe that we are so unique in Slovenia that one and the only country with such a divided public and such a low degree of interception would be. But if we put this aside. All the data shows that at the Ministry and in the government, you knew what the fall would be, what the rise of the infection would be. My assessment is that you haven't prepared for this again. I am talking about the need to test PCRs being increased in recent times when infection is on the rise. That's why I want to know: How can it be that after more than a year and a half since we've been living with this epidemic, people have been waiting for PCR tests for days? I personally know at least five or six people who have waited for up to five days from the appointment of a personal physician to the actual test. I think this is something that also indicates this confusion of the organization in dealing with the epidemic. If you knew that there would be such a fourth wave, I think you should do everything you could to also test the PCR, which is probably one of the key moments, how to limit and, of course, also find contacts, run smoothly. I am also interested in: What did you do at the time before the fourth wave to make these tests as effective as possible? Why are these delays coming?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr Matthew Tashner Vatovec, thank you for the question. As far as vaccination is concerned, it is certainly the largest logistics project in Slovenia's time, both in the field of wider society and of course in health care. As for the PCR tests, it should be said that we have three types of tests, it is called PCR tests, then rapid antigen tests and rapid antigen tests for self-testing. To enforce each of them at a certain stage of the epidemic, we had a reason and a basis for introducing them to better control the epidemic. Today we have about 20% of positive PCR tests, when we test our residents, when in general many have previously performed screening tests, or a rapid antigen test or a rapid antigen test with self-testing, otherwise all PCR tests would be. Right now we're acting like I'm talking about, and we've been doing a million and a half PCR tests. So far, we've had a good 280 thousand positive residents with PCR tests on the Coronavirus. Currently, PCR tests are performed in those who are ill and in those who have symptoms and have been vaccinated. That's protocol. When we talk about PCR test operators or everything about PCR and epidemic control, we have three levels of maximum testing. One of them is PCR as such. They are carried out by establishments authorised in the field of clinical microbiology and under the law, the Minister of Health may temporarily designate other public health establishments for the implementation of PCR tests. Thus PCR tests are currently carried out: National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, then Institute for Microbiology and Immunology at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana, then University Clinic for Pulmonary Diseases and Allergy Golnik, General Hospital Slovenj Gradec and University Clinical Center Ljubljana. Another important part of the PCR test upgrade is the sequencing of the virus genome, on the basis of which we monitor versions of the virus in Slovenia. Of course, the delta version prevails at this point because of its contagion. This is done by three laboratories, the Clinical Institute for Special Laboratory Diagnostics at the Pediatric Clinic of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food and the Institute for Microbiology and Immunology at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana. Then we have the determination of the concentration of the virus in the wastewater carried out by the Institute of Chemistry. This is also an important part of the monitoring and control of the epidemic. At the beginning of the epidemic in Slovenia we were able to do several thousand PCR tests, from 3 to 5,000, today we are able to do between 10 and 15 thousand tests in these institutions. The organisation in a number of areas, especially in the field of sampling, is the one that sometimes, generally at the local level, is causing the delay that you described, by no means necessary capacity to perform PCR tests in those laboratories. So that – and I have information – where such a stalemate occasionally takes place. We are always taking action and we are trying to get rid of it as soon as possible. However, there is no reason in the laboratories themselves that there would not be enough capacity to do so. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Vatovec, would you like to complete your question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u180	First of all, thank you for this extensive description of what tests we know, but more or less I've been familiar with it since we've been living with this epidemic. I want to know exactly why these problems occur. Given all the statements I've been tracking, these are not some limited problems or that these delays are something that happens here and there, but they are becoming something that is almost every day someone that a personal doctor sends to test. If you're saying that the labs aren't to blame for not being able to process it, the question is why do these columns arise if we want to call them that. People who wait days for the PCR test, I hope they get some guidance on how to deal with them, how to deal with them. But you know, of course, that didn't guarantee that that would happen. So I want to know exactly where this problem is, whether it's, I don't know, not enough nurses, not enough technicians in health homes. Where is the problem, why is it stuck, and why can't this be processed faster, and where is your role here? Why didn't you try to help local communities and health institutions at local level if you knew that the fourth wave was coming? We knew that the number of people infected would be high, and, of course, the need to test PCR would also increase. This is at least outside, if we look from the outside, a very simple operation or simple logic. The question is likely to be in staff and the role of the State should be to ensure that these personnel are provided if the question is in staff. If it's not a question in personnel, my question is once again where it's stuck and what you're going to do to make sure it's not too late. As a result of five days of infection, there may also be an even greater increase after.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Thank you for complementing the question, Mr Vatovec. It is true that primary health care as an entrance or entrance door to health care at the time of the epidemic is the one most exposed. Therefore, in the first wave and then also in the later waves, entry points have been established, which have generally provided the personnel in these places with the necessary redistribution, and we have still upgraded all of these, all of these tasks, which are currently being carried out by primary health care, including vaccination centres. However, the primary task of health care is to identify the infection as soon as possible; and if it is to put the person into isolation and thus prevent the spread of the infection. Only this path is the only correct, from this point of view of screening testing, first with rapid antigen tests, then with rapid antigen tests for self-testing. However, regardless of what you said, local-level organizations sometimes need additional reinforcements, so meetings with mayors who have already been in the past week, as well as public health institutions for endangered areas, can also be activated in these areas and are fully staffed, or can help carry out any programmes or organizational tasks at the primary level, as well as in hospitals. It's from a human perspective. But I'm going to say something, testing is important to identify the sick, so we can isolate them quickly enough and then treat them. However, vaccination is key, adequate grafting. Here we can speak widely about why she is what she is, and why she could or should be better, where all these factors are. I'm sure he's not one, but we can talk about a lot of effects, I believe we all know them together. But only related to this objective, no matter what, regardless of policy, to achieve sufficient overlap, can we adequately limit the epidemic and all the consequences. As I have already said today, optimism in the economy will be open, schools will be open, cultural events will be open, and health care will certainly continue to do its best after 18 months despite exhaustion to work on the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Vojko Starović will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u184	Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! This year we adopted the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which he then rummaged in Brussels, which he approved. The national plan contains reforms and investments envisaged for European funding by 2026, which is a fairly long term. The Slovenian plan is the basis for using the recovery and resilience mechanism, which includes the use of €1.8 billion in grants. Unlike other countries, our plan was built quite behind closed doors, and the public was not sufficiently involved. In reviewing the published plan, I note that these own developmental Slovenian brands are practically not foreseen. I also addressed this question to Minister Zvonk Černač, who is responsible for this area, but he replied that this matter is yours, Mr Minister. To be precise, Slovenia is mentioned only once as a recognizable trade mark in a comprehensive plan. While the plan states that our objective is improved international, regional and, above all, the niche visibility of Slovenia as a green, creative and smart economy, attractive destinations for foreign investors and a reliable business partner in Central, South-West Europe and also in the world. These objectives are to be pursued, and the question is how we will achieve them. Personally, I am convinced that the development of brands is exactly what can improve our productivity. Why? If you have a good brand and you sell directly on the market, if you can raise the price for a small thing in any way because of you, it affects profits — we both know from the economy — most. If you have a chance to raise the price for the recognition of a good thing. If I were to give an example from tourism, we could have a very different price if we were, I would say, so recognizable, although in tourism we have become quite recognizable, but we could have a different price if I said, for example, that we would be in Switzerland or Austria. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: How will we achieve this greater visibility, which is otherwise written in the National Plan? Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Starovic. Then you'll continue because you're running out of time. Now he gets the word, Mr. Minister for Answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you. Dear Member Vojko Starović, Honourable National Assembly, Madam President! Thank you for asking. The recovery and resilience plan is a reform tool to offer the economy a hand to achieve the following objectives: greater added value and competitiveness, high-tech equipment, restructuring into more resilient systems and double transitions, this is a green and digital transition. Who are we gonna help? With this reform plan, we will also help large companies in addition to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We will also be able to financially support companies in the Western region. And the emphasis will be on strong investment incentives for businesses. How much money do we have? You know we have 2.5 billion in this section, 1.8 is grants, 700 million is loans. Of these funds under the recovery and resistance plan, 427 million are earmarked for the economy from now to 2026, i.e. irreparable. We will co-finance investments in seven areas, for the first time, energy efficiency in the economy – five million euros; for the second time, circular economy – 20 million euros; for the third time, promotion of capacity for domestic wood processing – 28 million euros; for the fourth time, digital transformation – 56.5 million euros; for the fifth time, for research, for development and for innovation – 80 million euros; for the sixth time, productivity increases, for investors – 157.5 million euros; and for the seventh time, sustainable development of Slovenian tourism, including cultural heritage – 80 million euros. New, digital and green technologies will be key to greater competitiveness in companies as much as possible. With these funds, we will support the vision of green Slovenia through the support of a low-carbon circular economy. Sustainable tourism development, greater use of wood than low-carbon material. We will support creative Slovenia by promoting innovation by increasing the integration of the scientific research sphere and the economy and smart Slovenia by supporting the introduction and use of the most advanced technologies. And in this area, we will create a strong brand of our Slovenia with support in all of these areas. These are steps we want to take to ensure that products and services under the brand Made and Slovenia are equivalent or at least approximately equivalent to those labelled D, Austria or Italy. I believe that this is the best way for these companies to strengthen their brands through the support we will give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Starović, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u188	Your Honor, with the answers you gave me, you didn't convince me. Once again, I repeat, the awareness that their own internationally successful and recognizable brands are together, as you have just mentioned, whether it is a D or an F, or an SLO, which is crucial for productivity growth. Because again, there's a price to be paid. And if the price is higher, the most impact on profit growth is the added value. Let us remember that in the past, without any great support from the State, we have been able to develop internationally successful brands. Unfortunately, some good brands failed or were lost or went into foreign hands, Litostrom, Metalna, Radenska, Gorenje, Barcaffe. It's been working on that, too. For the creation of new ones, it is certainly the most important own vision, the ingenuity of companies. But without the state's orderly and continuous system support, it must be harder to develop the brand. This is why the development of domestic brands should be encouraged and supported in all areas. It's time to turn around a little bit and start thinking a little differently. So I'm asking you an even more, more precise question: How? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr Member, for the additional question. As I have already stated, the strengthening of trademarks will be possible through all seven areas supported by the means of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. This is the main answer to your question how we're going to do this. Because it is of paramount importance that we support companies in digital, green and Slovenia's transformation, we continue to position ourselves as a green, creative, smart country, as green, creative and smart. And to list all the options that will be available, I would eventually run out of time. But with the support of companies that know what they want in these areas, we strengthen their brands. Of course, it is also important to strengthen the trade mark of a country, which is, as such, one which, by its brand and its weight, provides support to individual brands or products in the country. Once again, I will say that we think that our companies in all areas will be successful in producing and selling their brands, products, digital transformation, because we believe that what we as a country are going to do will help businesses in this area, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to prepare for this. They are already digitally entangled in the world’s value chains, and they do not have so many problems here. Then research, development and innovation in this context will be sufficiently competitive with existing brands; there will be quite a few calls. Green transition where we want to co-finance companies with a higher added value, with green criteria included. Here we will also support municipalities to support these companies through business zones. And tourism, resurgence, the development of tourism by investing in higher value-added accommodation facilities. And here I believe we are working towards boutique, green tourism with high added value. And the last thing is the circular economy, the knowledge center. And we will give businesses free support in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Starovic, do you have a procedural proposal? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u192	Yes, in accordance with Article 246, I propose an in-depth discussion on trade marks. I insist on this by making good trade marks a huge contribution to increasing productivity and success. In doing so, we must not forget that Slovenia exchanges 80% of the added value with the world. It's so important that we're positioned somewhere, that we have good marks. And I think that for an in-depth discussion of trade marks there is also a city in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Dejan Kaloh will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u194	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister Andrej Vizjak, fellow Members, who are in the debate room! Mr Minister, I was, of course, very pleased when you arrived at our logos in July 2020, if I may say, where you personally looked at the landfill of hazardous waste in Metava. There you met with our Maribor stakeholders who know this issue. This, of course, I welcome because I think it will now be the second year in ten years since this landfill of hazardous waste in Metava is open. I think you're the first minister you've ever seen. I am also pleased that the current government has somehow committed itself to solving this problem, because I do not think that this area has been systematically regulated. It is also commendable, of course, because I think that this is one of the first-class environmental issues that these matters are somehow systematically resolved. However, this landfill in Metava, there are people here who are still somehow afraid of this landfill because there in these metal barrels and bags, these wastes are still actually buried, buried underground. What to do with these buried hazardous wastes to take care of the environment is somehow still an unresolved issue. And, as it is said, the inhabitants there are, of course, very concerned. The locals know that this landfill is taken care of by the Maribor Power, monitors, takes care of the maintenance of this landfill regularly, but in some parts it seems to me that this is also a problem of the state. Dear Minister, my questions on this subject are as follows: When you were on this visit a year ago, at the ILO you reviewed the actual state of this problem, did you find any common ground with the Municipality of Maribor regarding the resolution of this problem, perhaps with common powers? Second, have you considered that future probes of this landfill will be carried out and that these possible negative impacts on the environment and consequently on human health will be detected? And in the second step, will the rehabilitation of this landfill take place in accordance with some European regulations? Because somehow we know that this concrete landfill does not correspond to the state of the EU standards. And last but not least, distinguished minister: Do you know anything about the alleged compensation areas in this area, covering about 35 housing units? Is there any way that this degraded area is defined also as, I draw an equation, an area of compensation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u196	Dear Member, thank you for asking. Slovenia is full of environmental wounds from the past. And, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space is that these wounds are quickly, in accordance with European standards, also, of course, the resulting Slovenian legislation is being remedied. We have a few current, open cases in Slovenia and one of the past wounds is also Metava, which you mentioned. This is a closed landfill, which means that, of course, operational monitoring should also be carried out properly, and the inspection also regularly carries out controls. According to my data, we no longer intend to move these wastes there in any way, because this landfill is closed by a decision from the past. The manager is the Force, Maribor. On my visit, something else was exposed by the Power when you asked what the arrangements were, namely, that this landfill is now quite costlyly burdening the Force and, of course, all those who are committed to the payment of various services to the Force, or to the congregation, if nothing else. Implementation of operational monitoring, maintenance of this closed landfill is required by the Force to cover. Therefore, by both the Municipality of Maribor and the administrators, it was proposed that these degraded areas, these closed landfills could also provide useful, such as setting up solar power plants. And I promised them that we would examine and follow this proposal. And in two days or three days' time you will be considering the Space Management Act, ZUREP-3, which you will have in your first reading, you will see that the installation of solar power plants on closed landfills is also possible, of course, under certain conditions. These are conditions not to aggravate the condition of the closed landfill, so that it does not interfere with the body of the landfill, or that it is in some way a professional non-problem visa for the closed landfill. I estimate that under certain conditions it is also possible to build a larger solar power plant on this landfill, resulting in the rental of the necessary money both for maintenance and for operational monitoring. And operational monitoring, which is, in fact, a chemical analysis of waste water and the like, reveals what is happening with this landfill. And so far, the inspection has not found any deviations from the programme adopted for this landfill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your answer. We're moving on. Mr Rudi Medved will also ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u198	Hello, distinguished minister! If I am starting a bit of a caricature, the government decided over the summer that in several areas in Slovenia, which are particularly heavily polluted in winter, air is suddenly so clean that these areas are even natural health resorts. So is Zasavje. Why am I saying this? Since the government decided to abolish overnight air quality decisions in several areas of Slovenia, which have already been historically degraded, over the summer. It was necessary to abolish the decree that we had tried to enforce the past governments and local communities for years and years, and it even had to come from Brussels in the form of threats with heavy penalties, that in 2017 we had reached the adoption of these decrees for ten areas in Slovenia. And these decisions bring good measures to improve air quality in individual areas and, of course, also encourage citizens to move to cleaner sources of heating and thus help improve air quality. Now, as I say, those decrees will go to the dump. The dust will cover them, of course, because the dust is still in the air. And I ask you, Minister: What caused you to lower environmental standards? I would expect you, as Minister of the Environment with your body, to defend such decisions, which we have, in fact, been so difficult to collect in the past and have barely been in force for some time. And don't tell me to be happy now because I live where the air is so clean. Believe me, living in Zagorje, it's not as clean air as it wants to appear. Otherwise, I will be able to invite you to Zagorje holiday this winter, and you will see what air will be there and, of course, in other areas this winter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u200	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. You won't be waiting long for me in Zasavje, because we're coming to the government visit to Zasavje next week. We'll start Monday and we'll be there on Tuesday. I'm sure we'll spend a lot of time breathing suction air and I believe we'll breathe good air and meet nice and pleasant people. You've told me I'm lowering environmental standards. Your Honor, it's not true, it's not true. We have not lowered any environmental standards nor for Zasavje, nor for Slovenia, in fact, we have not reached any environmental standards. But what is the essence of the answer to your question? In accordance with European and Slovenian regulations, it is acceptable to exceed the limit of 50 micrograms per cubic metre of PM10 particles up to 35 times per year. This is a standard and we have not changed it and we never change it. And in recent years, we have seen the excess of these limits more than 35 times only in the area of the Municipality of Celje. In the last three years, we have not detected this in the other areas. According to the criteria of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the improvement of the quality of external air in these areas is inevitable, since three years in a row these limit values have not been exceeded, although the standards apply only to annual overruns. And I agree with you that this can also be due to certain meteorological or weather conditions, but one year can be a little better, it's a little bit more cunning and so on. However, when we speak only in a series of three years in a row, with the improvement of air quality in an area, of course, that the number of excesses of limit values is significantly lower than 35 times per year, the area is no longer included in the scope of the intervention and thus this decision on the plan ceases to apply. In fact, I would be glad that air conditions have improved in many environments. This shows the measurements by the competent Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore we no longer need to intervene there. I would, however, warn the Member of a very important situation. The Ministry of Environment with other competent ministries is also preparing, and we are in the final phase, the Operational Programme for Air Quality Conservation, which will include the entire territory of Slovenia and will also set out measures for air quality conservation, even where these exceedances have not been exceeded. However, air quality needs to be improved. Don't think we're done with this. We will continue to take measures to improve air quality where PM10 particulates also occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bear, you have a request to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, you see you're lifting dust because it's not really what you said. That's not true, and apparently the officers gave you the wrong information. Above all, last year the government voluntarily amended the decree without the involvement of the local community. A decree that referred to three years of excess air pollution with dust particles. Amendments, throws out these three years and determines that as soon as there is no more excess, then the decree is no longer required. You have done so without the knowledge of the local community, of your own free will, and you have completely forgotten that due to the good cooperation of the local community and the government in the past this decision has even occurred. And you're wrong, when you say, I'll tell Zagorje specifically that there have been no excesses in the last three years. Yes, of course they were. I am talking about the last three years – 2018, 2019, 2020. There's no data for this year. Year 2018, the border is 35 times, Zagorje – 55 times, if you refer to the last three years, for this year data are not available. And you say that these values fell dramatically, not even last year, 24 times last year, 28 times before last year; the limit is 35. So, of course, the air is not yet so far as we can say — we have done forever and we can simply erase these decrees. Your data, of course, is not real. They're misleading. Either you've been seduced or you're deliberately deceiving.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u204	The honourable Member, it is inevitable that the air, even specifically in Zagorje, has improved in recent years and that there is no longer a need for extraordinary treatment and emergency measures for areas of overrun. That's what I told you, and you confirmed it with your numbers. As you say, in the last period they do not exceed 35 times per year of limit value and, as a result, we can conclude that the air condition in Zasavje is better. From this address, we are also upgrading the decision-making process with an air improvement programme, no matter what. I can assure you that we will not abandon measures to improve air quality even where there are not 35 times the value exceeded. We will continue these measures, whether it is a decree or not. Finally, we will continue to support measures to maintain and improve air quality in Zasavje, in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you very much for the opportunity to explain the procedural proposal. Of course, I propose that we discuss both the Minister's response to this issue and the broader environmental issues. Of course, I cannot agree that the air is good in Zasavje all of a sudden. Even in the past, 20 years ago, these data are crossed, even in the past, a winter or a burning season has happened that these values did not exceed those limits. Why? Because of the weather. Arso made it clear to you that this fall in pollution occurred in 2019 and 2020 due to the weather. There was no inversion, there were two windy winters, and as a result the valley was overturned, of course, as a result the air was not so polluted. That's what Arso told you, and it's happened in the past. Now, all of a sudden, you've stopped all of the activities related to this decree, which is good and good. Financially there is not much burden on the budget, but it is a good basis for improving air quality in all these areas, I am not just talking about Zagorje, which, as you know, has always been at the top of Slovenia after air pollution with PM10 dust particles. Since the Minister said at the time of the fall of the Water Act that he would continue to strive for the preservation of the environment, this is of course not an effort to preserve the environment, he has no hearing for the profession, and he does not even have hearing for the local community. They were aware of the local community in explaining some of the financial plans for the future and that they would correct something small administratively in the decree. What did they do? Of course, they have completely changed it and laid the groundwork so that it can now be phased out peacefully. It's pretty good, yeah, that you come to Zasavje next week, where I think you'll hear them on this account quite a bit. The air will, of course, be good now, but come December or January, and there will be another song.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. It will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 7 September, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities sent a letter informing all operators of social security programmes of the Resolution on how to meet the conditions of the disease, vaccination and testing to control the spread of infections with SARS-COV-2. The letter states that, in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of the PCT Directive, both persons working with social security providers and their users must comply with the conditions laid down in Articles 5 and 6 of the PCT Directive. In the case of social security assistance, the personal assistant must be tested once a week while the disabled user must be tested every 48 hours, i.e. at least three times a week, and pay for the tests from his own resources. In recent days, I have received a number of messages from disabled users of personal assistance or their parents, as meeting the PCT test condition causes them many and exceptional problems and presents an excessive cost that they simply cannot afford. Some users are even immobile, making access to testing points very difficult or even impossible. This means that if the user is not tested with disabilities, the providers of personal assistance cannot actually offer them personal assistance. You have then completed the decree and, as an exception, added the implementation of the necessary personal assistance, but the above is certainly not sufficient. The fact that, in the case of users of personal assistance, it is a matter of different types of social services. Many of the users are immobile, paraplegic. We're talking about people who may not even be able to feed themselves. In short, it is an extremely vulnerable group of people to whom the Ministry should pay particular attention. That was not the case, it is clear from the fact that at first they were completely within the obligations of the PCT condition, and then after many calls you only corrected and added an exception to the emergency assistance. That, I emphasize, is not enough. As disabled organisations claim, personal assistance should be fully exempted from the decision and should be subject to a recommendation instead of a commitment, since it is a fully necessary service. Today we can read the following statement in the media, quote: “If we take into account the government’s decision, people with disabilities may also die.” This is, of course, absolutely unacceptable and requires a clear and loud response from the Ministry and a prompt appropriate solution to the situation. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Will you take the initiative to amend the government's decision to comply with PCT conditions, which would fully define the users of personal assistance as exceptions to compliance with PCT conditions and only as a recommendation? Are you going to take the test costs? It is necessary to know that this cost is exceptional and completely passed on to users, which is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u209	Hall beautiful, Madam Ambassador. The Secretary of State has the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs Meira Hot, thank you for your question. Pursuant to the Personal Assistance Act, personal assistance is assistance to a disabled person who cannot be implemented by the user alone because of the type and degree of disability. And these are services that are needed every day at home and outside the home to be able to live independently, actively and equally involved in society. This support needs at least 30 hours a week for personal assistance, household assistance, communication and the like. And we all agree that the Personal Assistance Act of 2017 was a turning point in the position and possibilities of independent life, independent decision-making of persons who need personal assistance. In the decree mentioned above, personal assistants were initially not specifically mentioned, but at the Ministry of Labour we interpreted that all emergency services were, of course, exempted from PCT conditions. With the amendment of the Decree, which you have already mentioned in your question, on how to meet the condition of the disease of vaccination and testing to control the spread of infections with the SARS-COV-2 virus, which was adopted at the end of the previous week, the Ministry has, of course, also proposed to amend or supplement the discipline to clearly place personal assistance in this decree or during the exception of PCT. Let me say that, basically, the Ministry of Labour is in the position that the PCT condition enables users of personal assistance, as well as all other users of social security services, to do so in a diametrically opposite way and a much better situation of life and the use of their services to which they belong, their rights, the exercise of their rights, as if, if we remember, a bad one year ago. So PCT-condition is the condition that allows us to keep the services of personal assistants open with a relatively high number of daily detected covida-19 infections. And in order to clearly set up emergency personal assistance services as an exception, because emergency services are certainly among the services where you cannot first check the PCT condition and then provide the service, due to the nature of the needs of users of personal assistance, we have proposed that the decision has changed so that users of personal assistance do not have to meet the condition of PCT when it comes to performing emergency personal assistance. In deciding what is necessary in terms of facilitating the exercise of personal assistance, the providers of personal assistance shall, in each particular case, assess this in agreement with the user. As a rule, however, personal assistance services, which you have already mentioned, are necessary in the household and so on. I think that operators are the best experts because they know the individual user best and, in particular, they can also assess the need for the provision of personal assistance services. However, personal assistants shall be subject to a general provision, taking into account the provision of Article 5, paragraph 1, of the decree that they must comply with the PCT condition. Once again, the PCT condition is one that, at a relatively high level of daily viral infections, enables us to behave in a completely different way and to be open to this society, and that personal assistance and social welfare services can also be carried out relatively normally for other vulnerable groups. The Ministry of Labour has therefore, in view of the fact that the decision has already been taken and has also changed in the sense that the necessary personal assistance is classified as services for which there is no need to provide a PCT condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. As already stated in the original question, we are aware that you have changed and classified urgent personal assistance as an exception to PCT conditions in the government decree. But it seems that once again, somehow, the whole responsibility is passed on to one that should not be passed on. The fact is that we need clear and specific rules and regulations, even at this point in time, where there is an extraordinary chaos among the rules. Now every time you re-evaluate what is necessary personal assistance, what is not, to translate it to the contractor in agreement with the user, of course it seems absurd to me. I do not understand why complete personal assistance would not be defined as an exception, since most personal assistance services are also necessary. On the other hand, you didn't answer my question: Does the Ministry consider that the costs of testing users of personal assistance would still slightly take over? We have a situation where personal assistants are tested once a week and users have to be tested for 48 hours. Again, the question is: Would it not also be possible to establish a mobile unit to perform the test itself, since many users cannot even reach the test points because they are simply immobile? We have a paradoxical situation where he does not meet the PCT condition and his personal assistant cannot even take him to the test site and he has not been tested. Do you understand me? We can have a lot of paradoxical, absurd situations. And that is evident from the fact that I have received many additional questions over the weekend despite the change you have made. Some special attention is needed for these vulnerable groups. The fact is that, unfortunately, the government has failed to do so in the provision of the PCT condition, which also shows that the Ombudsman has asked you to do so in order for vulnerable groups to fully need different attention, which has not been given to them. Once again, call for all personal assistance services to be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, honourable Member Meira Hot, for this supplementary question. I understand your appeal. Let me stress that our Directorate for Persons with Disabilities and ourselves with a team of State Secretaries are constantly in contact with providers of both personal assistance and other social security services. I can say that we try – at least feedback is such that we are successful – to remove obstacles, problems, and so on, what happens in decrees or legislation. And I must say, at least we haven't been approached here by people who have turned mass upon you. But we would like to go across the street, so I ask you to send these appeals and these calls to our Director for Disabled Persons, so that we can address this, because we are really in contact with all the contractors every day and we are trying to go the other way. After all, we all want to see that under the condition of PCT, which is important for the normal functioning of society in a relatively high daily number of infections, we can live as normal as possible without unnecessary obstacles. Regarding the cost of testing, we also did not get a strong feedback here so that this could be a problem. However, it certainly seems to me that, in the meantime, users of personal assistance will also be able to provide mobile units. And I believe that many have already agreed on this in agreement with local health homes, so that people who are not that mobile can also be tested. With regard to the general instructions on what belongs to emergency personal assistance services, I do not share my view with you that the Ministry should provide unique indications as to what is necessary for personal assistance services, because every user of personal assistance and beneficiary of personal assistance services is unique and everyone has his own needs. I think the best thing you can do with the contractor is determine what is necessary and what is not necessary. And I think that in this case there is a very clear direction, and I think that we are all taking the PCT condition as a tool that helps us to live pretty normal, especially compared to the year before we had the vaccine and the PCT condition and the situation was much more difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Meira Hot has the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Because I can see from the Minister's reply that there is obviously a need for a broader debate. The fact is, I'm surprised you didn't get any calls from the Ministry. I got them myself through social networks directly, perhaps also because we are a little more accessible Members in this context, and we are more responsive. The fact is that there is also a group on one of the social networks called Personal Assistants, where users and performers are quick to respond, write, remind. And I can tell you that you can read a lot of things there, which shows that the obvious system is not right at the moment. The fact is also that there is a very long article in the media today, which also shows that the situation is far from pink with this PCT condition. We didn't get along the best way to give you instructions exactly which emergency services are personal assistants. My opinion was that the exercise of personal assistance would be fully included as an exception. That everything is not right and that it is obviously necessary to discuss your response in this National Assembly, I quote: “Should disabled persons who are positive at covid-19 be left alone in bed, without food, water, medicines, lying in their own waste?” Such behaviour of the Government, according to the lady concerned, gives the impression that untested or disabled persons positive to covid-19 may also die from the prohibition of offering urgently needed assistance because there is an absurd situation in which a person who is positive to covid-19 does not actually fulfil the condition of PCT and is therefore not entitled to personal assistance. This is all available today through an interview in one medium and you can also read it. I'm not making this up. It is clear from all of this that a broader debate is needed, so I am proposing a procedural proposal for this debate to be held in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister Visjak! There is always some problem with the adoption of municipal spatial plans, i.e. changes and additions. Many times I am approached by young people as well as economists, who face a lot of problems in this regard, in addition to adopting changes and complementing municipal spatial acts, including in changing the destination of land, especially as regards economic expansion, and especially young people who would like to do so at home, in the local environment, especially in the rural area, in order to save housing and build their homes on their own home land, but often encounter the problem of agricultural land and so on. But these are things that belong in another area. I am particularly interested in: Where are we with the municipal spatial plans? Have all municipalities in Slovenia already adopted municipal spatial plans? We know that a few years ago, or just a little while ago, some have not done so, and there are still old municipal spatial plans on old legislation from many years ago. What are the requirements for amending and supplementing municipal spatial plans? And most of all, I am interested in the fact that you, Mr. Secretary, and this government are quite fond of both young people and the economy, which is the connection between my question: Do I know that, perhaps a few words about this, legislation is changing in certain areas, both the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Construction Law? What will make it possible for you to help young people and the economy in particular, so that these changes and improvements to municipal spatial plans will take place more quickly? And I'm also curious: How do we deal with those who agree to the congregation’s wishes, especially when we say that we are talking about congregational spatial plans? How do these things work, and if the deadlines laid down by law are to be followed, so that everyone does his or her work at the right time, and thus the procedures run faster and more effectively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u220	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. First of all. The vast majority of municipalities – 80% of them – are said to be 187 in particular – have already adopted the UN, seven municipalities have this in the final phase of the proposal. These municipalities have been exposed to particularly active cooperation in order to bring solutions together as soon as possible and consequently to the adoption of this spatial plan. Unfortunately, this is not yet at the stage of the proposal and we have also established communication with 18 municipalities to see how and what happens to them to adopt this act. The municipalities as a barrier to non-acceptance did not, in fact, highlight too long a time frame in the current legislation, but some have pointed out a lack of funding for these procedures and coordination with space regulators is also a problem. A typical example is, say, construction in flood areas and as a result, requirements for the production of hydraulic and hydraulic studies. This is also a key problem in such lengthy procedures, as some professional bases such as these hydrological and hydraulic studies are, of course, very long, as it is necessary to analyse the water levels of flood areas in the entire part of the municipality. If this is a very watery, many inflows, many of these water surfaces, this is, of course, a very difficult professional task and also a validation of these studies. I think that one sin has been committed here in the past, so that it has always been the responsibility of these studies to the congregations, even though the country has committed itself some 15 years ago. We are now in this government in the making of these studies for virtually all of Slovenia. This will be done and completed in the framework of digitisation projects, because we want to have all these environmental data, including water data, in one place; and thus make it significantly easier to adopt changes to municipal spatial plans as well as detailed municipal spatial plans. I'd like to mention another important possibility here. These municipalities, which have already adopted municipal spatial plans under the applicable Space Regulation Act, may adopt a so-called location check which allows for greater flexibility in the identification of buildings on a separate settlement. The location check may transform or expand the building plot on a particular settlement in order to allow for the completion and rounding of the individual settlement. This instrument is often also used for the purpose of expanding the activities of existing farms. This is one flexible instrument, which is also being upgraded by the new Law on the Regulation of Space, which is already in Parliament. We also build on the possibilities or effectiveness of the procedures for the adoption of spatial implementing acts, such as municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans. We want to debirocratise this country, we want to speed up these procedures, but not at the expense of the environment. So we are making some efforts to make professional bases, we are speeding up procedures with legislation, and through this so-called location check we are also allowing the expansion of settlement areas, building sites where it is necessary to round up activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Minister, for the very comprehensive answers, as much as you can put them to such a question in a short time, which can be very broad and can be talked about for hours and hours. I believe that we will also talk about this issue when adopting new legislation, and the Law on the regulation of space, and building legislation. There's still a lot of chance that we're going to fix things as much as possible and sort things out as you've already predicted. As far as the information system is concerned, perhaps the following response will work. We know it's been a problem a lot. This upgrade, digitisation, which will enable even faster business between the municipality and the country, is very positive. Some congregations, I agree, especially those who are difficult to afford to go to such a cost, i.e. to change the OPN, and, of course, we have helped them with even higher averages. As far as space regulators are concerned, if you may still be able to answer: Where, in particular, with water consents or anywhere, is this still stuck, or how can you somehow speed this up so that these space regulators respond more quickly? Are there any old habits here? Might it also be necessary to change the thinking of some to realize that these are very urgent things? The needs of the economy and young families seem so important to me that I am really glad that big, fundamental changes will be made in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u224	Dear Member! Where do we see opportunities for more effective implementation of these procedures? For the first time, the State for the full territory shall make those professional grounds for which it is competent. These are, in fact, maps of flood threats or hydraulic and hydraulic studies for the whole country, which means that these maps or those professional bases can be used to identify which areas in which municipality there are flood threats and, consequently, what kind of constructions. This is very important and if we have this information, it is easier to plan interventions into space. What else does this so-called digitalisation of the environment, the so-called eMOP project, contain in addition to these grounds? Similar digitisation for data on limited use due to water protection areas. Where we have water resources, there are also certain regimes that prevent any intervention. The same is true of areas protected by nature and the like. We want to combine all of these databases into a single digital platform where it will be possible to easily click in an application to get all the environmental information about all the plots in every municipality. This means that it will be significantly easier then to plan interventions into space because we will know what are the professional bases and the limiting factors. So this will eliminate the key source of space problems. Secondly, the Water Directive, which you mentioned as a case in the past as a relatively inefficient work, also contains internal rules governing the official, which may require of a party in a particular request, which does not mean that it must not constantly force the party to supplement the application, although it has already been supplemented by it, I do not know how many times; what is being seen and on what basis the permit is issued. Because we have cases where the official office actually cuts down, requires impossible data from the parties and is never satisfied. This is also why some opinions actually lasted a year and more. And third, which is also very important for a more efficient opinion, is that if the municipality comes before two opinionators, such as the Water and Nature Protection Directorate, and these opinions are inconsistent or even contradictory, the state itself must resolve this within the country and then act against the municipality in a coordinated position.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Primož Siter is next. He will ask the Minister of Health Mr Janez Poklukar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. I almost forgot you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the next few minutes, I will speak on behalf of the blind and the visually impaired and their concerns about the emerging law on long-term care, in which the Ministry of Health plays a major role, and mainly the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. For the blind and visually impaired, both for the activists in the field who I have been able to meet and talk to, as for the roofing relationship, one concern is the abolition or removal of the aid allowance and the service provided by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. They pointed to the controversial 148th Article, which only provides for blind and visually impaired – now I read their initiative – for the automatic issuance of the replacement decisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office for all recipients of the aid and service allowance, which would no longer qualify for the aid and service allowance. We understand that the coming law on long-term care in some way takes the right of the blind and the visually impaired, which has already been allocated to them, which is, of course, morally controversial, which makes no sense, which is also constitutionally controversial for the citizen to forfeit the right he has been granted. I therefore ask the following questions, Mr. Secretary-General: Why such abolition of rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act? Secondly, how does the Ministry of Health or both ministries intend to regulate the exercise of the rights of the blind and visually impaired under other legislation or in any way based on the already issued decision on the right to an allowance for assistance and service? And third, what about those who don't have these decisions? How will the State resolve the exercise of these rights for the blind and visually impaired who do not yet have a valid decision on the aid and service allowance after the long-term care law has been implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members or honourable Members! Dear Mr Primož Siter, thank you very much for the question of such an important topic, which stems from the proposal for a long-term care law. With the representatives of the blind and the visually impaired, we have already received and have been exposed to this concern at the time of the preparation of the law on long-term care. Accordingly, we believe that we are working in the direction that these concerns are too great and that, of course, the blind and the visually impaired will also be given what is necessary. As far as the services currently under way cover a certain part of long-term care services, they are currently provided under the healthcare system or social protection. Due to the various legal bases, entry mechanisms and assessment scales, beneficiaries do not necessarily access comparable rights despite comparable needs. However, the Long-term Care Act proposes that existing rights or services as well as resources be transferred to the future long-term care system. On the other hand, this means that this also applies to the aid and service allowance granted today to different target groups and for different reasons. It is intended primarily for persons in need of assistance in basic daily tasks. And this system is, of course, the goal of transferring it to a system of long-term care. The proposal for a long-term supply law also provides that all existing users of long-term supply rights will be assessed in accordance with the new single assessment scale. As a result, all citizens will be able to access comparable needs with comparable needs. I think this is a key message and also a commitment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament and distinguished fellow Minister! Some things my colleague, the Minister of Health, has already said, are crucial. Perhaps I would add, from the point of view of the labour, family, social affairs and equal opportunities, that the proposal for a long-term care law provides for the transfer to a special account at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and is intended to finance long-term care. Exceptionally, the right to an aid and service allowance remains reserved for war disabled persons, but this is excluded under the long-term care law. It is also worth pointing out that persons who, before the application of the long-term supply law, have obtained the right to an allowance for aid and service retain these rights to issue new decisions authorising long-term care. Why is that important? Because no one's gonna stay on the worse. The whole story is shown as follows: the aid and service allowance is terminated by the application of the Long-Term Care Act, but the beneficiaries of the aid and service allowance, except for the exceptions to which this is excluded, I have indicated that instead of this allowance they will receive the rights under the Long-Term Care Act. It is either a cash receipt, or long-term care services in an institution, or long-term home care services, or a family member’s provider. In addition, a service for strengthening independence and co-financing of e-services. We are an important financial resource for those who need it, who are vulnerable and who have needs for some additional services, instead of this huge income added here to the law on long-term supply of more variants and greater choice. This is also the purpose of this law to bring about a wider range of services or monetary benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If you claim that blind and visually impaired will in fact lose nothing, I welcome this solution. However, when I speak on their behalf, I must express, as you have said, Minister Poklukar, that there will be a single evaluation scale for comparable needs. The Association of Blind and Invisible Societies has somehow expressed, to say, some doubt. Long-term care based on the medical model of medical evaluation or the definition of individual ability, which is particularly problematic in the case of blind and visually impaired people, because it is a special category where we have people who are seemingly independent, who seem to need little help, who can get dressed, who can go to bed, who can wake up, who can go to the toilet themselves. But when you put him in the room, he's got a problem. When you put him in front of an opportunity to get information from the Internet or on TV, that's the problem. They point to this possibility in essence of discrimination and also ask themselves: Is it not a discriminatory decision or such action in this law for only part of the beneficiaries of the aid and service allowance, i.e. to the blind and visually impaired, but not to the other beneficiaries? That's my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Who wants a word? Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for complementing the question, Mr. Siter. What I may still have to say to you has been the question of what happens to those who do not yet have this decision. Those who do not yet have will, of course, be assessed according to the new single evaluation scale. It is therefore appropriate to go the same distance for everyone and thus allocate rights and opportunities of use to all on the same foot. But it is true, and I agree with you, that we must be careful about this for all the reasons that you have said, because blind and visually impaired are in a different way hindered in society than perhaps motion-driven, which we usually have before us when we are talking about these vulnerable groups or long-term assistance. On this side, it will be placed on our side and even more so again by the Ministry of Labour and Social Caution in order to properly place it in the rules and that, of course, no one will be overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, honourable Member Siter, for the supplementary question. I can only confirm what Comrade Minister Poklukar said. It is crucial that the social dimension of this assessment is also important, and we will take it into account. I also agree that, following your recommendation, we will pay particular attention to the fact that blind and visually impaired persons do not fall out of this system in any way. We want to set up a wide, modern, fair system with choices, as is normal in more developed countries, after which we want to follow for several decades. And I think that we all need to find ways together to get as many groups of the most vulnerable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Siter has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u238	Yes, a proposal in which I call on the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. We have before us a law on long-term care, which we have in fact 17 years ahead of us, which is truly wide, covering more than the questions of the blind and the visually impaired. This is one small percentage of what it actually covers; and in history, over the past 17 years, the writing and drafting of the law on long-term care has too many times taken the excuse that something cannot be done now because we will do it once in the future or within this marital material. When this law is on competent working bodies, of course, we will discuss it; and I sincerely hope that the question of the blind and the visually impaired will also be discussed. If things don't work out, I'm predicting that in the Group of the Left we're going to make amendments in a way that will benefit the blind and the visually impaired. But to you, Minister, when we're here, or to say, a foreplay in this law, in the formation of this law, I call once again, blind and visually impaired, a relationship and activists have given you one petition. As I understand it, it's already a five-digit number, which suggests that their call is serious, that it comes from the field of people who live on the measures we've just talked about. And I invite you, in the light of the fact that you want the system set up by the government to become "wide, modern and just" if I quote Minister Ciegler King to listen to them, take them seriously and take their comments into account in the very drafting of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor. She will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague, colleague! Madam Minister, my question today concerns the amendments to the ZOFVI, which your SMC party and, of course, the entire coalition have put into the procedure. What's going to happen there? There will be radical changes in the composition of the worlds in educational institutions, in particular by increasing the number of representatives of the founder, according to the municipality, to five of the total 11. This, of course, opens the door wide to the decisive influence of politics, homely, political recruitment. This, of course, affects the functioning of kindergartens, schools, including the choice of directors, which is probably also the aim of the applicants — SDS, NSI, SMC and minorities, who are officially signed under this proposal. In the LMŠ, we believe that the proposal is bad because it is about politicising school space and the system and because it is simply a political setup of directors if we say bob beans. The director is the one who is the pedagogical leader, and his key task is to ensure the quality of teaching processes; and that is only his task. Of course, it makes sense if the principal is the teacher’s manager, that in deciding who the principal is, in fact, the educators have the greatest influence, because they are the ones who can most expertly assess who has the appropriate skills, knowledge, personality and, ultimately, competences for the good management of the institution. In accordance with all that I have said, in this first round, I ask you the following, Madam Secretary-General: Firstly, do you support this amendment of the ZOFVI tabled by the coalition, which, of course, is also your SMC party, and is the SDS first signed under this proposal? Secondly, why do you support this if, of course, you support it? Thirdly, on what grounds have you tabled or tabled this amendment? And for the fourth time, what will actually improve in schools if there are more representatives of the congregation in the world of the school that we know of, what powers it has? Will there therefore be a better relationship, or will teachers learn better, or will they get more money at school? I don't know. So what's going to improve in schools? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs Divac Mirnik, thank you for your question. I hope you will understand that I will be able to answer it as much as I can at the stage of the procedure of this content that you are asking about. It is true that last week a group of Members and Members tabled a new Law on Financing Education and Education, namely, this novel actually addresses four substantive areas. The first relates to the aims and principles of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia, the second to the already mentioned composition of the world, not to the appointment of directors, but to the composition of the Board of Education and Education, which I understand that you are asking me, and then I will give you some further explanations. The third package relates to the novelty related to the advancement of assistant educators or educators and the fourth to e-recorders, so that all records in education and education can finally be transformed into electronic form, which of course takes time. What were the reasons for the fact that the Group of Members and Members had tabled this novel, and should have asked them or read those explanations, which they had also submitted in the material itself at the time of the submission of this novel. And I'm going to tell you myself how I understand it, but maybe it's not right at all. I see it as a direct response to the current problems of the situation, which some have been emerging for some time, but some have, in particular, now with unfortunately too much political motivation or the activities of some before the start of the school year, which is quite normal and has been prepared and turned around in these procedural aspects. With regard to the very direct question concerning the novelty of the composition of the world, I must say that, of course, at this procedural point, I will not yet be, and I cannot give any assessment, because at this moment only material is being studied by our professional services at the Ministry. We have also asked for the expert opinion of all those involved in the individual content on their assessment of the proposed amendments. Then you know that in the end she will give her opinion according to the government procedure, and then you will be informed of it. What I can say and remember right now is two things. The first is that the Court of Auditors has already made a clear recommendation in the field of education and education, when it was reviewing the functioning of public institutions, that the role of the founder of the public institution in the field of education and education should be increased. In other words, the message is that it is the role of founder, namely, the congregation and not the state, which still needs to be strengthened in the system because it is too small, according to the current arrangement. The second is broader, it is internationally relevant and says that when we compare the composition of the worlds of institutions in the field of education and education with other arrangements across Europe, we find that we have some kind of a lack of regulation. And it is this unique arrangement that is linked to the fact that the founder in the current composition of the worlds has a very small role to play in comparison with other members of the composition of the worlds. I'm not prejudging anything in advance, I'm just passing on two facts, with which we'll somehow address our opinion, our position. So much is possible at this point, and if I understand correctly, we will continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Divac Mirnik, you have the floor to supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you so much for the update. Yeah, I assumed you'd answer me that way. Okay, I'm not saying anything. Since you say that the Court of Auditors has already recommended that the role of the founder be increased and this role strengthened and that the influence of the founders is claimed to be mayors or city councils or municipal councils, I will explain to you what they did last week, more precisely 16. 9th, in the Municipality of Maribor. A decision was adopted, namely the Decree amending the decisions establishing the public educational institutions of the primary schools in the municipality of Maribor. And I'll explain to you what they did and why they did it. Last week, on the city council of Maribor, a conclusion was reached that holy schools could be established once the appointed and elected majority of the members of the school’s council had been established. Why? Not everyone, like the ZOFVI says, but most. Why? There is a problem with the timely appointment of members of the school council, in particular in the procedures for the appointment of representatives of the founder to the school council. Why? Because it is a poor response when this call is made to political parties to propose their representatives. As a result, people do not want to be members of the school councils by their founders and, of course, the proceedings are long - term or do not begin in accordance with the law. That's my answer to what you've said, but it's up to the Court of Auditors to follow. However, there is definitely some fact that the government coalition has written this novel without communication and consultation with relevant stakeholders. And I'm glad you guys didn't do it, which your colleagues in your coalition didn't do. I suppose you'll still be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u246	Yes, perhaps two additional sets of explanations that I can give at this point, and for which I am also committed, that we will follow them strictly in preparing our proposal for an opinion and then in further consideration. One is a legal fact. This composition of the worlds is fundamentally defined by the Law on Institutions. That's the basis. And there the Law on Institutions very precisely states that the founder must not in any case have a dominant majority, but should follow the principle of tripartiteness without a dominant majority. Which means that still when we have the composition, one alone won't be able to be in the majority. This is one legal principle or legal provision that is binding, which means that this fear is too much for anyone to have a majority in the composition of the three sides of the world. But why such a proposal is, the applicants themselves will explain to us, and it is probably already explained in the material itself. However, another fact may be a historical memory. I would like to remind you that such a solution to the composition of worlds of institutions in education and education has been in force since 1996. During the 2004-2008 term, this composition was changed to this proposed composition and immediately thereafter, in the next mandate, the Government of the former changed it – or the National Assembly – as it is a matter of legislative change – back to the current composition or composition of 1996. Whether we're talking about, say, 3+3+5, whether we're talking about 5+3+3, or 3+5+3 or these combinations, there can never be one group of the dominant majority. This is what binds us under the Law on Institutions, and no matter what happens during the parliamentary procedure, we will have to follow. So much is possible at this point in the law reform process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Of course, I have a procedural proposal. As a matter of fact, your government coalition has suggested this. You are probably aware that SVIZ is already categorically opposed to such proposed changes. These changes have also proved to be purely okay in practice, so say experts are most likely to know what and how they work in schools and how they actually function. Therefore, it is important for them to have some security and to know how. Of course, it's not necessarily for the Forever, it's for whatever. However, it is important to say again that these new changes actually introduce political staffing. Indeed, the other things that are important in this proposal are the real possibility of the advancement of assistant educators, including changes in the collection of data, including some changes in the issuance of documents to schoolchildren, I agree with everything. But Catch is, of course, somewhere else, just like always when SDS makes a proposal. Catch is solely and exclusively in the political setting of directors. Now you can say it a little better, but that's just bob beans, like I said before. That is why I would like to include all the important stakeholders in the proposal itself in order to make this clear to all those affected by it, not least the municipalities, and to prevent the politicisation of the education that has been under this mandate since the government has been running the SDS, in fact, every day is only stepping up. Therefore, in accordance with all the relevant matters and also with the Rules of Procedure, I propose, of course, that we discuss your response at one of the following meetings. Of course, it is most reasonable that after this procedure has been carried out in the National Assembly. And since we know how the voting machine works, of course this change will probably be established; unless you, as a minister, say that such a change that goes to the detriment of professional colleagues working in education and education, you do not agree. And I would like you, as Minister of Education, Education and Sport, to take your place, of course, or for your colleagues, and not for the policy led by Mr Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Igor Peček will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! Eight members of the European Union called before the informal meeting of the finance ministers in Brdo for a swift return or compliance with the fiscal rules which were frozen at the start of the covida pandemic last March-19. In dealing with the covida-19 epidemic, all countries of the European Union were in debt and the priorities for the allocation of funds varied from country to country. In Slovenia, for example, we earmarked 900 million for salary supplements, and a large part of the aid was also intended to help the economy, which, of course, I personally welcome. However, despite the financial assistance granted, the economy needs time to recover. It is also very important that the economy is provided with a predictable economic environment. The European Commissioner for Economy, Mr Paolo Gentiloni, has pointed out that we are still facing risks not only from an epidemiological point of view, but also due to bottlenecks appearing in supply chains. This is followed by an increase in prices of production raw materials and inflation. Public debt increased by an average of 15 percentage points over the past two years, i.e. from 2019 to this year, from 79% to 94% of GDP. The Stability and Growth Pact, however, defines 60% as the ceiling of the permissible public debt and 3% of GDP as the ceiling of the public financial deficit. At the same time, we have also learned that the European Commission intends to launch a public consultation in autumn on the reform of the Stability Pact. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What position will the Republic of Slovenia take in this regard? Will the Republic of Slovenia also use the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to launch a debate on the relevance of the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mr Igor Peček, for this question. Slovenia, as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, has already taken advantage or is already exploiting, rather, the fact that it is being discussed. And at an informal meeting nine days ago in Slovenia, among other things, the issue of fiscal policy in connection with financing investments in green, sustainable and digital was on the agenda. These are the criteria set by the European Commission. And here, of course, the issue of investing in fiscal policy was also on the agenda. It is true, however, that this content of the title, which was also public, did not, of course, contain fiscal rules and so on, but that an open debate is already taking place in all Member States. And that was the purpose of it. We will also talk about this in the course of the presidency. I think we will talk about this in November, December, both within the ECOFIN and within the Eurogroup. Here, of course, is the European Commission's position that in 2022 there is still a so-called derogation clause, which in other words means that these fiscal rules do not apply in this rigour. And Slovenia is part of Europe and Slovenia is part of the European Union and, of course, Slovenia is subject to these rules. If we look at Europe and look at Slovenia, the economic results of the European Union country are in some way a positive surprise. In other words, this positive optimistic surprise in that the measures taken by both the European Commission and individual Member States have been successful. If we look at reflection and look at economic growth, unemployment rates, then of course we find that, if we are talking about Slovenia now, we have an average economic growth. The latest forecast, which speaks of 6.1% of economic growth, also confirms this. And we have a small unemployment, a relatively small unemployment in relation to comparative analysis with other Member States. On the other hand, we also have a larger debt and, of course, we also have a higher deficit. And on the third side, we have a much bigger investment. And if we're talking about investments, then it's definitely a view or a position, an opinion, as you would like, that with the rapid transition to fiscal rules, we should not significantly limit investment and we should not increase unemployment. I think that these achievements, which have now been found in the economic field, are simply to be retained and also to deal with fiscal rules in this respect. As a result, in fact, in 2022 there is still a derogation from the fiscal rules. Here, of course, it must be said that a trend is important, but the direction of development of basic macroeconomic data is important. And here we can say, yes, even in Slovenia the debt will decrease as a percentage of gross social product and will also decrease deficits or foreign deficits. Which, in other words, means that the direction of development goes to investment, to as much employment as possible on the other hand and, of course, to reduce debt and to reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Peček, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you very much again. Yes, yes, for 2022 a consensus was reached within the European Union on the derogation from the fiscal rule. The question is what lies ahead in 2023 or some year later. We are in a period that requires in-depth and serious reflection, we are facing major challenges in terms of restructuring the economy, both in the face of the climate crisis, with demographic changes, with an increase in added value, not to mention further. Above all, we need to clarify how, in view of these challenges, we will deal with public finances in the coming years, as you say, Mr Minister. Personally, I am of the opinion, and also in LMŠ, we believe that re-engaging the belt in the coming years would not only be very questionable, as regards the economy, especially if we take into account the financial consequences of the laws that the government has put into consideration and will have a major impact on public finances in the coming years. Here, on the one hand, it is a reduction of revenue, as envisaged for example by your proposal for an income novel. So I'd like to ask you: What measures have you proposed in the last year to this end on the revenue side, given that you recently said on the spending side at the Brdo meeting that trends should go towards reducing public sector costs? That's why I want to know: What did you have in mind, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The first question here is, after 2022. It is certainly my personal assessment that it is an important direction of development, as I have already said. It is certainly my personal assessment that countries will not move into the Maastricht criteria within one year. If you look at some countries, I will not remove any of them where we have public debts, for example, over 100%, it is, in fact, theoretically and practically impossible for such a country to now enter the Maastricht debt criterion in one year. I am talking about the direction of development and the time period, which I think will also be adapted to individual Member States. From this point of view, we are certainly talking about the direction of development. Even after 2023, it is not expected that some countries, for example, will go to 60% of public debt overnight because it is, once again, mathematically impossible. Secondly, I was not talking about belt tightening, but I was talking about the need to pay attention to expenditure and, of course, that these expenditure should be monitored, especially in order not to increase or increase excessively. I did not have any specific measures here, it is entirely a matter of natural control and taking into account the economic, economic and such principles in determining expenditure. And what brings the most revenue when we talk about measures, because that was also one of the questions – What did you actually do to make more revenue? That we have brought about the economic growth that we have, because the revenues are higher than they were in 2019. And here we can also talk about those revenue that relates to revenue from consumption. I mean value added tax. And the most we can do to increase revenue is economic growth, there is greater consumption in this respect, there are greater profits, there is greater competitiveness, there is full employment. And this brings income from income, corporate income tax, value added tax, which I have already mentioned; and this is the policy that we are actually leading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Franci Kepa will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King and Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings for both ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The Roma problem is in different situations in places in Slovenia. In Prekmurje, Roma have become well involved in society and are mostly working as a majority of other work-related Slovenians. In the White landscape, they work solidly and poorly in Kočev, New Town, Krk, Trebnje and elsewhere. In the municipality of Trebnje, about 350 Roma live in the village of Vejar and officially more than 400 in the municipality, while unofficial data indicate an even greater number. In this settlement, Roma have their large family residences, mostly wooden houses, all infrastructure, paved road with a sidewalk through the village, electricity, public water supply, public lighting, utility and kindergarten facilities. The utility had more than most villages in the area. The municipality did all of this to them, mostly with the help of European or state resources, and paid VAT itself, which is not a negligible amount either. Despite all the infrastructure standard, which does not have many settlements in the municipality, their inclusion in society is not improving, but even worse. Children go to kindergarten with pain, and they come to elementary school by the sixth grade, and they are less likely to go to elementary school. There are several reasons for repetition, including early pregnancy in girls. A lot of students would have had no trouble finishing primary school, maybe even high school or college. The work obligation is completely ignored. In the village there is one, sometimes the largest of three inhabitants. Everyone else lives on social assistance and illegal activities such as theft, trafficking, extortion. According to non-official data, they are also linked to other mafia-criminal associations. Villagers in neighboring villages Račje village and Hudeje are indignant because there are frequent places of agricultural crops, smaller machinery, gasoline, threats, blackmails, bush burnings, grassland and so on. The bottom of the barrel was the recent burning of the helm, which could spread to the economic premises. The villagers convened a general assembly where a large crowd of villagers gathered and made comments. I'm going to ask the Interior Minister a question first. I want to know: What other procedure, or what additional work, could the police do here? Question for Mr. King: What the country will do is now run the Olaj working group to increase the success of sending Roma to community work, public works [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you very much. You’re running out of time, and you’re not hearing it, so you may be able to complete the question in another part. First he gets the word, Mr. Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! Of course, these things that you mentioned are largely true. Finally, this Roma issue has escalated in the last two, three, four years. I myself visited most affected congregations, from Škocjan, New Town, Brežice. Finally, we had one relatively open public tribunal, where Roma representatives also participated, and we discussed what it was actually possible to do to make things change. One thing is the legislative proposals that are not yet on the table, but the working group led by the Director of the Olay Police has prepared very precisely, very well. Later on, the King's minister will be able to tell you more about it. This report will be addressed by the Government within the next 14 days, and there will also be specific deadlines for what and in what laws things need to be changed. As far as the work of the police is concerned, however, it must be said that in the past the police have been working with the so-called police work project in the community, where, as far as possible, Roma representatives have been trying to participate in this work. Last year we hired an additional 4 Roma in the police force. One of the jobs comes to an end by the end of November, which in the past has produced some better results, particularly in terms of communication or confidence in the police. On the other hand, it must be frankly said that, if I so call it, where it is somehow found to be at least a crime or often even a crime, much more police activity is needed. I have already given this direction to the police myself, in my opinion it is necessary for the police in these environments to be present more intensively in order to check these people more intensively, so that they can finally do so-called checks within the Roma settlements. Above all, these people, who have somehow gotten the feeling that they are either completely independent or above authority, lose that feeling. In recent years it has also been noted that there is no longer that hierarchy within the Roma community, where Roma had a boss with whom it was possible to talk at least from the outside, and his word also applied something within the community. These young people you talked about don't usually finish primary school at all, they don't respect or acknowledge their inner hierarchy anymore. That is why I am convinced that it is mainly with those proposals that we have in mind, where, in my view, education is essential. Once we have achieved that these people will be educated at least to the extent that they will finish primary school, I think they can complete even much more than primary school, and finally we can have excellent craftsmen from this population, I don't know why they can't be. Finally, what someone is, I think, even Mr Rom said the last time in Brežica that there is no reason for people not to be studied at some stage. Last but not least, as you yourself said, we have a big difference between what the Roma population is like in the east of the country and what it is in the southwest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Janez Ciegler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr Kepa, for that question. I'm probably just gonna start now, and I hope I can get a better answer in the second part. There's a lot that Hoys has already said, he's highlighted. The Roma employment problem needs to be addressed widely. The problem of this inclusion of the Roma population in employment is multifaceted and requires prior action in various inter-sectoral areas: living conditions, education and education, education, child protection, women, young people and the like. And as Minister Hojs pointed out, the biggest obstacle to the integration of unemployed Roma into the labour market is their low level of education and lack of work experience. On the other hand, the ability and willingness to take an even more active approach to identifying their own abilities, competences, interests in decision-making in the areas of education, training and career selection and employment. On visits to Roma settlements, including Zabek, I was informed by Roma, who is employed, who works to receive a markedly negative response within their community, and is accused of being a traitor. And this requires a broad approach to changing attitudes towards people who are active and take responsibility for their lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u263	Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. For the Minister of the Interior, I would have a supplementary question. That it was the wish of people that, if possible, the presence of the police would be more frequent than you have already stated. It would be very good, but there you also opened an office in Rača village to give initiatives; they would like the presence of another militiaman there to be greater. We will also have a meeting next month in the congregation on this subject, and if there is an opportunity, it would be good for any secretary or Mr Olay to come to this meeting. But I'd have an extra one for Mr. King. As you mentioned, the Roma themselves in the camp are blocking some of them from going to work. And a lot of people would go to work, but they're threatening him and blocking him so he can't go to work. Because they have worked in a large number in the past, even in the village itself, there have been fewer or fewer. And now they're taking advantage of this social stuff. Why are they given social services despite their unfulfilled responsibilities? The villagers expect the Roma to carry out their duties, but not just seek justice and ratings. Thank you for the additional answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Member! As for our visits to the congregations, even next week, there is no problem, just send us an invitation in time. I've responded several times myself. As I said at the outset, I attended all the congregations. It probably won't last until next week, but I'm sure one of the secretaries will come. As for the very presence of the police at these offices or in this office, we will see if there is an additional presence. But personally, I think, frankly, I'd rather have more police presence in the settlements themselves or control over the settlements than in the offices. I've given the guidance myself several times, to be more in the field and less in the offices. It seems to me that there will also be more to the appearance of crime prevention and crime, not only in appearance, but also in the actual identification of both cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Ambassador Kepa! It is extremely important that already Roma are given priority and particularly encouraged, more favourable promotion in most labour market measures. For example, public works programmes are still widespread for Roma and can be included for up to 2 years, while other target groups, other than disabled persons and over 58 years of age, can be included in Roma for only a maximum of 1 year. Furthermore, in Roma for inclusion in public works, the Ministry co-financed almost 100%, i.e. 95% of wages, while in other target groups 50-80%. In doing so, we want to stimulate employers to increase Roma inclusion, as we are in some ways funding almost the entire income of the person involved. We also implement specific programmes of public works. But perhaps I would like to mention in the end what Minister Hojs said and is extremely important. So far, our departments have tried various so-called soft measures. Apparently, as you pointed out, as Minister Hojs put it, we do not have much success. Even the labour activity of the Roma population has declined in recent decades. And in this government group on Roma issues, we have a good basis for correcting certain laws, not just for the Roma, but in general, because in our conclusions it is also generally that there is no fair relationship with the recipients of financial social assistance and those who work. The ratio's broken. Above all, what is important is what Minister Hojs said earlier, that with all these laws we will try to protect children in order to enable them to at least complete primary school, because it is very important that by raising their level of education we also cut through this vicious cycle of inactivity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vasku Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. Minister Simoniti, your ministry has issued a €2 million tender to co-finance the production of audiovisual miniatures following a literary proposal by Drag Jančar – I saw it that night. The deadline for the application was 4 October 2021. It is surprising, however, that the Ministry has issued such an invitation to tender without the participation of the Slovenian Film Centre and for a predetermined work. But there's a lot of contentious issues. The first is the amount of the means, the second being that the call was for a specific work and a specific author, without the indication of the manufacturer or the TV house that would sign the co-production contract for the performance of the work; and, last but not least, the fact that the tender was published on Friday, 3. 9. withdrawn on Monday, 6 September, only three days after publication. The Ministry explains that the publication of the invitation to tender has encouraged the increasingly difficult situation in the audiovisual sector, that in recent years television series have rarely been recorded following literary proposals and that Slovenia will be guests of honour at the Frankfurt Book Fair, where the average guest will be Drago Jančar. The explanation also stated that national measures and financial incentives are needed in Slovenia to maximise the promotion and production of European audiovisual works. This depends on the existence and development of the audiovisual sector and the preservation of cultural and linguistic diversity. You see, I couldn't agree more with you here, but you're doing the opposite. It is obvious that the invitation to tender has been corrupt, and while the Slovenian Film Centre is waiting for every euro to be distributed for projects that have already been notified regularly, you do nothing for me, nothing for you to support your friend. This is not surprising in your work, but it is no less controversial. In short, the call reveals only one great incompetence of the people who run the ministry. However, the project for 2 million is not signed without the consent of at least the author of this literary proposal. That's why I'm asking you: How did you come up with the idea for this targeted and selectively formulated call? Do you think it is transparent and where in the budget have these funds been earmarked for it and on which item? How is it possible for such a large amount of budget to be allocated to one project itself? Or did you simply want to divert 2 million and where, while the money for all other things is running out? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u272	Thank you very much. With the invitation at the Ministry we wanted to support Slovenian authors in the audiovisual field and encourage them to make a television series based on Slovenian literary work. Since Slovenia is preparing for 2023, when there will be honorary guests at the international book fair in Frankfurt, Drago Jančar will be the central guest of the book fair and therefore we have chosen him as one of the most frequently translated and at home and abroad awarded novels. This novel, which is supposed to make a film, has been declared a novel for decades, won a French award, won an Austrian award, and many more. So the superior quality, the appropriateness for visualization and the outstanding popularity of this novel have also encouraged the dramatization of this literary work in the theatre, in a few days there will also be a premiere in Maribor. These quality grounds do not call into question the eligibility of the choice of a particular literary work, so we have published the call in the most transparent way possible. It was a public invitation and open to all film makers. For this there are all legal grounds. In order to ensure the authenticity of the invitation to tender, certain conditions were also required of the notifiers. The selection of the contractor would be the task of a permanent expert audiovisual commission. The amount by which the Ministry is prepared to support the creation of this historical series under budgetary resources was indeed 2 million, but given the high complexity, this could ensure co-financing up to a maximum of 80 %, so the producer should also provide certain funds. The requested height and justification are subject to evaluation.The evaluation would therefore be within the competence of the expert commission under the tender criteria. Of course, all of this means that there is no automatic allocation of funds. I'd say that for now. I can also say that some objected, you mentioned those three days after the call was made, and, of course, after it came to “operation” in the public eye, of course – logically – the most prominent Slovenian writer was disturbed and resigned from any further talks and arrangements.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u274	Thank you, Minister. As expected, you didn't listen to my question and you didn't answer anything. In the first part, you quoted the first part of my question, where I described what you said in the Ministry. Now you're saying there's been an appeal, and I'm wondering: Who asked you for these funds, or did you choose to offer them yourself? You know, two million euros to go on – one normal TV makes it three to four. I want to know: How did you assess this amount on the basis of what difficulty you are referring to? Because you know, RTV signs the contract. Where would you play the sequel if you just gave two million? You must probably make a Slovenian film center, co-production contract with national television, with POP TV and they as co-producers give studios, cameras, cameramen, editors and this is their contribution co-production. It's not like you're gonna give one of them two million Biancas because it's a very good text. We have no doubt that literary proposals are good, and we are also looking forward to performing in the Maribor drama, but this move shows some very, very strange practice, sorry, which smells like corruption and fraud, while you don't have money for a whole bunch of very necessary things in the ministry. For example, for young, talented people's scholarships, I think it's 20 scholarships for gifted students studying abroad, all of which would amount to only 50,000 euros – investment in young people – and you're offering two million euros for a sequel that the author himself didn't agree with. I'm really asking you to tell me: Where do you get the idea of height and this invitation, which is so illogical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u276	Look, there's money at the Ministry for those things you talked about, just enough and you mix things that don't belong together. I'm not going to give you scholarships now, and I'm going to be able to explain to you how this happened some other time. Thus, we have in particular extended the scholarships for another year to those who were entitled to receive them earlier and we have extended them because of the co-vide and these funds have not actually been recommitted, but the scholarship has become a huge new tender, so the Ministry has very many scholarships and is very careful and responsible in recognizing what young perspectives are. With regard to the film, I can say that, as I said, he was perfectly clear, unequivocal, transparent, and anyone could sign up for it, and that would be the case. However, it was certainly the basis of this literary proposal, which I think is entirely justified in coming to it. In fact, some have succeeded for no reason whatsoever to prevent real promotion, a genuine matter of some partial minimum interests, in order to prevent this matter. I think this thing is over if you think something's wrong - please! And to incite corruption and things like that! The Minister, present here, absolutely avoids this matter, works everything by law and law and all the legal grounds for it have been given. I am extremely sorry that something that would have been good for the whole of Slovenia has been prevented, not just for the author, who is self-respected and famous in the world. So I'd answer that. There's actually no need to answer for other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u278	Yes, of course, I will suggest that the National Assembly hold a debate on this, for never, Minister, until you became Minister of this time in the government of Janez Janša, there were no calls for one literary work that is the work of your friend or that you like. Never. And of course, when we catch you in some unacceptable practice, then it's the media who just mentioned it and discovered their hands deep in marmalade. They're guilty, I don't know, of the opposition's policies. We ask how it is possible that the Slovenian Film Centre, which lives and who cares for projects of too many film authors and audiovisual workers, knew nothing about this invitation. Isn't it normal for things to go the other way, not directly? And anyone can sign up. What does that mean that anyone can apply? Two million are here, you have a literary proposition, and now let's sign up when it's all settled. I can't possibly accept your argument that if you put a call out on Friday, but on Saturday and Sunday, I don't know who demoralized you so much that you withdrew the call. This seems to me very much to be the hair drawn, completely out of the drained practice of the Ministry and the operation of film or audiovisual production in Slovenia. You are not helping them in any way, and I think there is huge damage to culture and audiovisual production in Slovenia, so I think we need to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u280	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting, Minister! You know that you are one of the few ministers that I value in this government, I tell you fairly, except for the water biscuit, which I know is already forgotten, we can say, but for the other thing, you are one of the better. I will also ask you today – and there is no other way, because I have to as a Kraševec, because this goes on – to ask about the accumulation of this Pades and Suhorica. Unfortunately, I still don't understand why the government is kicking into this project. Why does he prefer it to other projects? There are so many warnings from all sides: local, civil initiatives, representatives of local communities, government organisations, representatives of various naturalists. You also ignore experts, scientists, who have specifically said certain other things, other things. In fact, their findings, I'm afraid you're simply ignoring them. The Ministry has been stressing all the time, promising to take into account all the highest standards in the preparation of these professional bases. You keep saying that. And these practices that have already been implemented in European accumulations – I can also believe that. I would have thought it would have been better to use the standard, I don't know if I would have said so, these common sense, and we could have used natural drinking water rather than accumulating water. I'll get to the bottom of this. I'd like to hear from you: What stage are these projects at? This is a very important matter. It is known that on 19 August 2021 the Government adopted a decision on the implementation of the State Spatial Plan to regulate the supply of Slovenian Istrian and Kraska hinterland with drinking water. I want to know the details if you can tell me: What happens next, what's the plan in the coming months? This is very important to me, I mentioned a number of local communities, civil initiatives, and I can also count on the mayors. Mr. Minister, now you know what the mayors of the Krajina municipalities and many others are like. They're extremely dissatisfied about this. Also because, despite their differences, if I say so, you have not included them in the debate. You didn't include them in the debate. I want to know: Why are you so opposed to all these options, which should also be given to others, especially the local community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u282	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The constitutional right to healthy drinking water is not exercised in a declaratory manner by certain resolutions and I do not know any other texts, but by concrete projects. In Slovenia we have some problematic areas concerning drinking water supply, and the biggest problem is Slovenian Istria; no, sorry, Slovenian Coast. Unfortunately, the Slovenian Coast does not have its own drinking water sources, so it is constantly having problems with water supply. It is supplied with water even from neighbouring Croatia. When I came to this ministry, we asked ourselves that one of the priority projects to provide the Coast with access to healthy drinking water, in order to find a water source, which will be a long-term – long-term underlining – will provide the coast with an independent water source from neighbouring countries as well as a wider one. When we examined the various options, we relied on all the professional backgrounds adopted. The decisions taken so far have been based on expert studies of all potential water sources for the supply of drinking water from the Slovenian Istria and the Krajska hinterland. The studies were produced in a multi-disciplinary manner, both on technical, economic and environmental criteria. It was produced by experts with practice in cooperation with experts from institutes and universities. These are construction experts, health technicians, general hydrotechnics, biology, chemistry, environmental protection and geology. Thus, honourable Member, does not claim that this matter is contrary to professional opinions. It is true that some professors, especially in mature years, object to this, because, you know, sometimes the profession has different views on the same issue, but here we have relied on manufactured professional bases. As far as the discussion with local communities is concerned, it is not clear that we have not made contact with all local communities. In the past week, the State Secretary, together with the Director of the Water Directorate, visited all the representatives of the municipalities in the thronged area and more; yesterday. They talked about it, and I must say that these conversations directly with the mayors do not know the position that it is possible to understand from the news. No branches. In fact, even part of NGOs from the Slovenian coast advocates not talking about initiatives that are born there. So, it saddens me that the supply of the Coast with drinking water has so divided this part of Slovenia, this is called the karst hinterland and the coast, and that I actually have the feeling that there is also some interest in some of the existing waters selling beautiful water to the coast. It also comes from all professional backgrounds that, at the most critical moments, pooling water lines in the back does not offer reliable water supply to the coast at the most critical times when water is scarce. And once again, we want a long-term supply source for the Coast with drinking water. Now, about the project timer. In line with the Roadmap, it is envisaged that all activities under the project documentation contract will be signed and also completed by the end of 2022 and that the construction itself will begin in 2024 with the completion of 2026 and 2027. Thus, the public delineation of the post-project variant study was expected in November this year, the public treatment followed in December, followed by comments, the adoption of the regulation and then a joint procedure, where the process of drafting the State Spatial Plan and the construction permit will be conducted in parallel. So, from this I have also given you a timeline, and then there will be more than enough opportunities to confront all the different views around this project in the context of these public debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u284	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, there's something I need to remind you of. Water doesn't sell, water is free, you know -- I hope you know that. What is being bought and what is, is an infrastructure cost due to depreciation and other things. Water is free because it has to be, because that's by the stop. Just hold on one second. But, look, your decision to accumulate is based on studies 15 years old. Your expert team, which is now in place, is your expert team, and it's not an expert team that should be mixed with two different catches. It's a fact and a problem that is. You know, there's been a lot of tests on the possibilities for hundreds of years to check these options. You know exactly that in hundreds of years, three projects have been rejected to infect this Suhorica. Why is it called Suhorica? Minister, there's a picture on August 21st. Suhorica. Look, this is going to power the battery, look, this is going to power the battery, this is Suhorica on August 21st, one month ago. You tell me: How will such a thing power up some kind of accumulation? I think it's really interests, but there are interests on a different side than what you think. Here's the problem. A 130-million-dollar project for such a thing that would replace the spine completely, across the whole of Crassus and supply of drinking water, connecting to the other two plumbing, 55 million, instead of 130 million. That's to be understood. I'll read you one more thing soon, if he gives me time. The hydrogeologist of the Geological Institute in Slovenia, Dr. Janko Urbanc, wrote: “The results of the pumping experiment in Brestovica have clearly shown that at least 565 litres of groundwater per second can be drawn from the aquifer even in the summer dry conditions.” It's a study. Why didn't we consider these here? “Water is good quality and suitable for the care of the population. Currently the water supply of Slovenian Kras needs a good 100 litres per second, for district water lines 110 litres per second, the unused remains practically 360 litres.« This is a study, you have never considered this and force and force and force forward into your project. Give me the answer: Why haven't you taken this into consideration until today? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u286	Yes, thank you very much. The honourable Member, if I were to be asked questions about this particular information, I would also answer you, and so you take one number out of the context and expect me, which I am not an expert in this field, to answer. Look, the answer to that question has been given. This question was raised, including this Suhorica. I tell you, this answer was the day that one of the countless professional discussions on the theme of these pipelines was among the experts. Mr Member, you probably insist that we do not solve this professional question, we are a policy. This should be handled by experts. There will be more than enough opportunities for this at all stages of the procedure. When public studies will be presented, when it will be time for professional discussion, coordination and decision on this project at the end of the day. The decision on this project, yes or no, has not yet fallen. The decision has fallen to prepare documentation, to update, update all studies, so to speak, to adapt to new data and thus to public disclosure with a view to water supply. According to experts known, existing water resources in the background are also exposed to foreign countries, as is the case specifically in Sežana, where there is also a contributing area from neighbouring Italy, where there are quite a few potential pollutants in this radius that may affect this water source. As far as other water sources are concerned, they are not sufficient for reliable long-term water supply of the Slovenian coast in the next period. These are the results of the investigations and research we've been doing. It is said that I will never, honourable Member, insist that this water source must be; this water source today appears to be the most appropriate in the opinion of many experts. Finally, the Secretary of State is a former director of this field, former director of the Water Institute. I believe that this field of expertise, because it has been working for 38 years and has been working for a long time in this profession, is well known. I believe that Mr Kramer, who is the director of the Water Directorate, has been well aware of this for the rest of his life. I therefore believe that, in the context of all these studies, which have been recently signed by experts, they have considered why it makes sense to go to this water source as a long-term water source. And I believe that in the end everyone will be pleased, because the possibility of building a truly reliable water supply system of the coast and also a reserve water source for the karst hinterland. There is also a reserve water source for these water lines, which are now all on one or some water resources, but according to the congregation where it is, they will receive a backup water source and I think it is a good journey for this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u288	Thank you, Vice President. It's like you said. Me and you are not going to solve this technical problem here, but my job here is to warn you, because you, as Minister, are responsible for the project that we consider to be in Crassus, that it is not the right thing to do. That's the problem. And if he's been rejected three times in history, you'll give it again — you know what I'm afraid of? I'm afraid you have to justify the money coming from Europe, and that's what this is meant to do. And you don't have the right projects and you're looking for expensive projects to pull that money out. That's also one possibility I've heard. But the solution as such, Minister, is not real. The solution, if she's been rejected three times, why do you have to confirm her now? And the same professor who was here was embarrassed the last time we talked about this. She was embarrassed because we gave her the information, and you won't tell me that the hydrogeologist of the Geological Survey of Slovenia is the main man who controls Janko Urbanc all the time, and you know that he is an expert, you never called him to give your opinion on the amount of water and what he is. It's not true that Italy's area is affected, because I'm going to tell you exactly. Paperwork, other things in second place, that's where Timavo comes out, if you know. And there is Timavo - I know because I am from home -; Timavo supplies water for the whole Trieste, but he has 300,000 inhabitants, not for 135 thousand, as is foreseen here. And we have every opportunity to link this matter up. We've got a chance! The fourth well is already made. The costs were already made, all the projects were made, it was only to bring the project forward. Why go into one project, which everyone opposes, local communities oppose, plumbers, societies, say, everyone completely and you hit your head forward and forward. And I'm afraid that if the other government does, this project will be stopped because it will take a different one. I'm telling you! As a result, in the ILO you also report, in your message, that the new water source in Suhorca will provide the inhabitants of Istria with constitutional right to drinking water. The constitutional right to drinking water is all good, good and fine. Well, we're powering up, the Kraški water supply is already running 20 to 25 percent of the water in Koper, so they never run out of water, but they have to save the water source. And we are the first to do everything; here in the National Assembly we must decide that we will really solve the problem, because the Coast is needed and must have drinking water — because this must be and we agree both — but we are solving the problem in the wrong way. That's the problem. And I see it's not a money problem. Because I see that this provision in the protection of Slovenian Istria and the Krajska hinterland with drinking water is a very important demanding project and placement in it and everything it is. The President, because of this great resistance from all sides, the great resistance of people, I think it is right that, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make a public debate and to find out once again the need for such a project: whether it is wrong or not. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Janja Slug will ask the Justice Minister, Marjan Dikaucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Minister, last year, you were making a bid for the Notary City in Žalec. In doing so, as you yourself said, you failed because, as you said at the hearing, you did not meet the requirements of the relevant work experience. Even though you yourself have found that you do not comply with this condition, you have, of course, applied and initiated appeals procedures on this call and have failed there as well. The result of this delay of this procedure was, of course, that the former notary had to postpone his retirement twice, ask the Ministry to extend the operation of its office, but, of course, when you arrived at the post of Minister, you will no longer approve this extension. In the question of Members of Parliament, we continue to ask you about this very pressing question for the people of the Lower Savinja Valley, but we never receive any clear answer to our questions. Many Members have already asked you this question, but your answers are, to put it mildly, an excuse, a glimmer of mist, and more like that. Residents are placed in a position to cease operating continuously as of 1 July of this year. Employees of notariat, these are four of them – according to my information, if they are correct – are currently registered with the Employment Institute. On the Notariat itself, not just the inhabitants, are disappointed in your conduct, at the Notary Chamber as well. What is particularly important, however, is that residents do not have daily access to the Notary, that the notary who is now performing this function has also warned you that it is too burdensome for them to be able, because of this overload, to be able to afford additional inconveniences, additional travel costs, extra time and additional financial costs. I want to know: What are you going to do to get the residents back to Notary Services?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u292	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. To begin with, let me explain that the notary in Žalec has been released on his own accord and on the date he himself has set. However, it is possible, by law, to perform this function by the end of the year in which he reaches the age of 70. And that would be until 31st. 12. The notary himself listed a date that was not 31. 12th, but before. In this regard, he probably now found out that he had made a mistake, and now he would try to fix it somehow. However, let me also point out that my predecessor has already issued a decision to appoint a new notary to this vacant notary place in Žalec, but one of the unelected candidates has complained, and it was not me, nor my partner, as is being falsely reported in the media, because she and I are not participating in this process and she has also withdrawn it long ago, so it has not been decided on at all. As a result of this pending administrative dispute, the decision on appointment has not yet become legally binding. At the same time, however, the time that the former notary himself proposed was running out of business. When I began with the ministry, the only option in this regard was and the law was compatible with the possibility, I would say that the Notary Chamber would set up a notary or notaries who, at that time, will carry out this notary business periodically until the legal authority of the decision to appoint a new notary. And that's what happened. As you know, the Notary Chamber has fully trusted the archive of the previous notary from Žalec in the temporary storage and operation of the Notary Frost from Celje until the time of this free town. Let me also tell you that the notary is operating there, that it does not hold that citizens are being denied access to notary services there. Of course, I find it interesting that you always tell me that I'm a contractor of illegality, an adversary to the rule of law. At the same time, under the pretext of some care for citizens of the Žalec and Savinja Valley, you want to violate this rule of law because of the interests of some individuals. I am of the opinion that there is no legal basis for the extension of what you ask me to do. I also told the President of the Notary Chamber that, to the extent that he found a legal basis on which this should be extended, I would immediately extend it. And he's three months away from what he's been with me, and he hasn't come forward with a legal basis. So please, if you may know that you can tell me what the legal basis is for this extension. Of course, I know that some would prefer it if they just liked it so that I could look away and not strictly follow the law. But, as I was saying, there is no legal basis in marriage. But if you do know her, please address her to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u294	Dear Minister, you have looked at the page several times – every time it was necessary to make maximum use of the hands to raise mail and hands for complaints and your partner as well. Now I'm asking you because people are complaining because people really don't have access to this notary, which, according to my information, the surrogate notary has also warned you. He warned you about the oppression he has in Celje, warned you about the oppression in the Žalec, and also warned you that he must reject and redirect people to Celje. The former Minister twice approved the postponement of the pension. It seems funny to me that in each answer, you would point out how he wanted to do it or how he was relieved of his own desire. Yes, of course he was! I want to retire, that's why he was. And whether you would have done it six months earlier or six months later, provided that you obviously applied to this place, then the result of the invitation to tender would have been exactly the same. I suggest that you ask your predecessor for advice on the legal basis of extending the operation of the office because she will be able to tell you on what legal basis she has done twice. However, I also have information that you wish to send representatives of the Notary Chamber out of the invitation to tender somehow, so I doubt, of course, what you are now telling me and what you are also answering to fellow Members and Members who are asking you about this same thing. Once again, people don't have access to the notary: What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u296	Look, this is now the task of the Notary Chamber, as I told you, and it also appointed a surrogate notary, who is temporarily serving there. As far as you're concerned, when you say my partner is supposed to be complaining, it's a big lie. She never complained about anything. She even withdrew her candidacy. Neither did I complain about the decision to appoint a notary. I'm asking you so nicely that you don't deceive. And I ask you a question, you said before that there are four people in the institution, and they don't have a job, and I don't know what. I don't know if you were worried there when 250 people went to the Prekmurje facility. You obviously didn't care about that. Now you're worried about four people, not those who work for a minimum wage. Besides, let me explain to you when you tell me to ask my predecessor. I don't know. I don't think that's the basis. Thus, I also did not get an answer from the Notary Chamber by the President as to what the legal basis should be. So I expect you to be able to see her. However, if that decision is legal or not, I cannot judge it, of course, because no administrative dispute has been brought against it because the notary who proposed it has been entirely favoured. We're not gonna find out. However, it is solely responsible for assessing the legality of the court. On the other hand, I don't know why you're doing so much for this notariat. It was written in the Evening Journal a while ago because the notary has spoken, I think, if I recall correctly, he spoke to the Minister of the Notary Chamber and the secretary to extend it. But I even called Minister Restoration, who I know personally, but nothing, and we Minister Restoration didn't even mention that we're on the clear side. Do you find a person worthy of public trust who, through some individuals, calls on the minister to extend this extension to commit some illegal act in order to prolong this? Do you find this person worthy of public trust? That's what I'm asking you. As far as people are concerned, people certainly have this legal certainty here. So this is not with anything Maybe it's a little trim because it's not every day, but of course the Notary Chamber can place more notaries, because they're next to Celje, but Velenje; in Celje there are three notaries, in Velenje two, having one for every day. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u298	Mr Vice-President, first of all, I ask you to instruct the Minister that we are at the point of the questions being sent, and that we are Members who are asking the Minister the question, not the other way around. So Mr. Secretary has nothing to ask me what I am and why I am and what I am thinking. He's here to answer our questions. That's the first thing. Second thing. I didn't say your roommate complained, but I said she didn't pick up the mail, and you complained. I'm worried about the four employees. I am concerned about the inhabitants of the lower Savinja Valley, who, as the alternate notary told you, do not have equal access to notary services because it is simply overloaded and cannot provide them. That's what he told you. I believe you didn't hear him, just like you're not listening to me now. And I'm worried about these four employees. I would also be concerned if there were only one who would be unemployed because of you as a victim of your actions; and these are the four. Of course, I propose a debate on this point at the meeting of the National Assembly, because I think it is necessary to discuss the delaying of the Minister's procedures, the failure to lift the mail, the straw directorate, the straw ministry, not least to avoid paying the municipal contribution. All this and all that, I think it'd be good if we could talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u299	Thank you very much. On your motion of procedure first. Yes, I agree with you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Minister, we are asking questions here. I hope you'll take that into account next time. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u300	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to turn to the Minister who is here today. Today I listened to your press conference or press conference on these measures also against covid-19 and one of the issues was also about poverty. You might even remember what you said. The answer was very nice, what you said. But given what we have seen or read lately, even when these measures or decisions have been taken in relation to these PCT conditions, this phrase of the Government, unfortunately, is also yours, constantly repeating that you are fighting for the poorest and the weakest in society, in fact domestically speaking, has fallen into the water because it is simply a pity — and this should never have happened in my opinion and never — has been forgotten in these decisions regarding PCT the condition of the weak ones; it is said to be homeless, to mothers who are actually fleeing from violence in a safe house – etc. etc. I'll just add. And in general, as a minister, because you know which ministry you represent, I would expect or demand, and it is also right that all the other Members would ask you and the Government to do so in such a case as we have now, it is said that in this case the coronavirus should be those who are really pushed to the edge, which are marginalised, stigmatized by poverty and other things that are being pushed to the edge of this society, you should be the first to stand not only on the side of them or protect them. I am also personally interested because I know that I regularly read all these meetings of the government, which you have, or regular, extraordinary, because it does not matter, but I wonder whether you also participated in this debate when talking about these PCT conditions. I know. I agree. The profession comes first. But the profession also shows a lot more feeling and compassion than politics. First of all, I really want to know: Were you involved in this discussion on these PCT conditions? What was your position on the government back then? Have you told Mr President of the Government that this is wrong or that these PCT conditions or decrees are too strict and too stigmatizing these are the poorest and the weakest? I would expect you to raise your hand at that time and ask the Prime Minister of the Government to discuss these PCT conditions again. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina! Very wide, wider than in the forecast, you have now asked your question if I have followed well. General about the PCT condition first. On the contrary, I would like to point out from your opinion that the PCT condition at this time is a condition or a tool that allows society to have as many daily cases of covid-19 infections as it works normally. Why is this especially important for the department I run? Because of the network of homes of older citizens, due to other social welfare institutions that can provide them with this tool, the PCT condition, allows them to enjoy normal openness, normal lives of residents and residents in their homes or other users, users of social security services, and because they also enable what we have learned in a terrible covid epidemic, they also allow them to meet their loved ones, relatives, friends, and loved ones. Remember, a bad year ago the situation was significantly different, even here in the National Assembly we talked about it and we all worked together in the absence of the vaccine so that despite all the threats posed by the virus, health threats, social security institutions and the most vulnerable who receive various services through social work centres and other NGOs, so as to be able to access them as much as possible. Now for the PCT in humanitarian organizations. I'm 13. 9. the providers of the material assistance programme in the role of the managing authority of the operational programme for material assistance to the most vulnerable by 2014 to 2020 have informed the explanatory note by letter that the acquisition of food aid by recipients, the most vulnerable persons, is understood as a necessary measure for which the condition of the PCT is not required. In a specific case, it is essential to provide vulnerable groups with basic products and supplies, and therefore, in a specific case, the distribution sites in which the food packages are distributed to the most deprived should be equated with the exceptions defined in Article 5(5) of the Resolution on how to meet the conditions of disease, vaccination, testing to control the spread of infections with the sars-COV-2 virus. Let me mention once again the importance of the tool or the condition of PCT, which also allows the most vulnerable to receive material aid through these programmes and, on the other hand, aid services to the most vulnerable. On 16 September, a decree was published in the Official Journal on amendments and additions to the decree, which I had read a little earlier in one part, which, among the exceptions where the condition of the PCT really does not need to be taken into account, also includes humanitarian warehouses, food distribution centres and other places that allow free access to basic living goods to socially endangered groups. In the field of social protection and family, this exception means that if a person, a vulnerable person who needs a service or other assistance to prevent and address a more difficult social and family problem, whose abandonment would lead to a material deterioration of psychosocial distress, the PCT does not prove the condition. This is a government which has taken into account and included, from the outset, the exceptions cited by the decree, a collective body which also has open discussions on current topics. So the emergency services and other assistance to prevent, solve the more difficult social and family problems we have had since the beginning constantly before our eyes. The PCT condition also allows those most endangered to receive aid normally under different circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u304	Your Honor, once again, thank you for your word. Yeah, well, that's the Catch 22 you were talking about right now. I will only read from the report of the Advocate of the principle of equality, where he mentions this matter, which was also said to have been sent to you by the Ministry of Labour, concerning the users of these humanitarian warehouses or humanitarian points. I will quote what has been read: “Our users who do not have PCT have today refused to enter the premises where we have their offices. We showed them a letter from the Ministry of Labour and explained the urgency of the situation for the person in charge, but they replied that there was no basis for that. For such an exception to the urgency and that they will take account of the decree, because the penalties are great and the inspectors are on the march." So here we are. In fact, those who should take care of the most vulnerable have not been given the opportunity to receive humanitarian aid because of this decision, which was essentially adopted first and then corrected. And in that case, when it comes to borrowing, I don't think we should even discuss a lot and discuss whether to help a person or not. In the situation we are now in, the real fall is coming, the winter is coming, when there will also be a lot of homeless people in such situations, I invite you once again, and I ask you once again: Why did they not take you into account as a minister — and your opinion? At all, what you have said before has been taken into account as a serious demanding or also as a serious thought that you want this PCT condition, which we all know must be, but that it needs to be taken into account, but people cannot now because of this PCT condition literally die of hunger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member of Korazi, thank you for complementing this question. You said it yourself, but I would have looked at it differently. The contractor, who then disobeyed my instructions, I don't think he was doing the right thing. At that time, if I had given such instructions as to interpret a decree for social emergency or psychosocial assistance, I could be able to provide emergency relief, in an emergency procedure that was under way. Just because Mr Lobnik, the advocate of equality invited us, we responded immediately, you see that the actual diction is the same as the exception in the decree he proposed, and we immediately thanked him and informed him that we have taken the matter into account and introduced it. So from the beginning the government has been involved in the interpretation of this most vulnerable, but unfortunately I must say that in our country some still need very, very, very specific dictions to feel involved in those for which a particular diction is used. Despite the fact that I have expressly instructed that exceptions to the decree are also interpreted for urgent social procedures, procedures in matters of family concern. That is how we quickly corrected this flaw and reacted with the joint action of the advocate and the government. I think it's a good thing that we're all on the thorns, or we're all paying attention, and we're going to the most vulnerable. So I would turn the story around and say, well, we have the right institutions to warn, and things change quickly and move into the most vulnerable. If I may, honourable Member, respond to your allegations in the remaining short time with specific information from the covid epidemic from March 2020 to the end of the third wave, which was somewhere in June 2021. We have greatly helped the most vulnerable by automatically extending the rights, in particular to financial social assistance and other social rights. Indeed, we reacted quickly and prevented more people from falling into material, social, and poverty. So, in the largest, in the largest payout, that was April 1, 2021, it went to almost 25 million euros for the payments of 111 thousand 223 beneficiaries. Now we are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u308	Following Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a broader debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. But I'll tell you why. The problem with this government is that you have listened very carefully to the Minister earlier, that ministers have their opinions and have very good recommendations which are not being taken into account in the Government, because unfortunately it is such that the President of the Government decides everything but should not. That is why he has people in his positions who are experts or who need to deepen into these problems. That is why it is right and also because it is necessary to protect the most vulnerable and the poorest in our society. There is no room for certain interpretations out of the box. People need help, people need help. Once again: I propose that a broader debate be held here in the National Assembly. I would really like everyone to sit down on the subject of these PCT conditions or rulings once in a concrete way in the National Assembly, of course with expertise, and to discuss or re-evaluate where or which ways would be the best or best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac, which is a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u310	Honourable President, Honourable Minister of Infrastructure! There are many challenges facing citizens and Slovenian energy, and some citizens are already experiencing them. Thus, for example, prices of energy, electricity, natural gas, heating oil and finally remote heating rise before the start of the heating season. According to some estimates, within one year these prices will increase by more than 200 percent and, of course, this growth on the stock markets will also become accounted for by customers. Of course, this also poses a risk to the emergence of energy poverty when many people are unable to afford heating due to high prices. That's why I want to know: What measures does the Government foresee that at least these growths in global markets would mitigate a little bit? This raises additional questions related to energy security and self-sustainment. In this light, we will also pay pens due to the lack of environmental objectives. At the same time, you have announced the early closure of the TEC, because it and the HSE Group are threatened by bankruptcy due to the extreme growth of emission vouchers and, of course, by additional pressure on the rise in energy prices, and insecures many employees. Given that you have announced the early closure of the Chestnut power plant, I am interested in: Why did you not at the same time foretell the adoption of the Act of Closure? Let me point out that Velenje coal mines are not only connected to jobs in Velenje, but also, for example, Talum Kidričeva, which is the largest electricity customer in this power plant. For the operation of the system as a whole, the TES is guaranteed by the entire group of HSEs, including the Drava power plants Maribor, which represents the most profitable company in the group. We have learned from the media that this is why the government is already negotiating with the European Commission on how state aid is granted. And since we know that state aid is not unconditional, we are essentially interested in: What exactly is being discussed with the European Commission and what conditions for assistance are being discussed by the Government.? Dear Minister, the questions are quite a few things, they are very weighty, meaningful, and I ask you to answer these questions orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u312	Dear Minister! In view of all the developments since 23 February 2021, and given that I have already asked you in writing and orally as many times as I have, the last letter was a written question on how the rehabilitation of the building at CKŽ 55/a in Krška. Everything was blurry and the answer is that it's done. I can certainly see that the door is still closed with a chain, even though there were some tours of potential services that were supposed to come in. But no one has ever seen the timers about the passage of parts, even though I wanted us to get our hands on it. I really want to know: At what stage are the works on the facility and how are the preparations for the agreement being made?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, thank you for your question. I must say, of course, that these questions or questions of yours are very appropriate. In fact, when I monitor matters myself, I am quite dissatisfied with the realization of what we have agreed on. But I'd still like to tell you a few facts so it doesn't look like we're not doing anything. When we performed our government, this facility was empty. This empty facility was transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration, which according to his information was somehow envisaged for Furs, with the administration moving from Brežice to Krško. Unfortunately, for quite some time or for quite some time nothing has happened — to your initiative, honourable Member. It is you who have given this initiative and I have followed this initiative in February to explore whether a part of this facility can be accommodated either by the police for compensatory measures, i.e. those who are mainly working in the field of migration and related matters, or what we have somehow had in view of what we have planned, that is, part of the highway police. We were at this facility, I was personally down once, our colleagues were there several times, and it is true that in fact the matter has been cleared up or argued for quite a long time. Finally, it is necessary to say that the problem has arisen and here I will not run from responsibility so that perhaps the part could be done faster, on the other hand, it is true that the Ministry of Public Administration could not possibly agree to an exchange with the Municipality of Krk, because part of this facility is owned by the Municipality of Krk. It was the wish of the State that the Municipality of Krško leave this part to the State or that the matter should be replaced for the part where the Ministry of Public Administration houses. In the last week, according to my information, this was in the past week, both the Ministry of Public Administration and the Municipality of Krško agreed relatively well that the part where the public administration is housed by the municipality will be transferred, allowing the state to also draw funds from European funds, start with reconstruction, and that part that is still needed should be settled in the next week, the month, but it is the spaces that are still needed, so on, the archive and so on. As far as the premises in the abandoned facility are concerned, however, it is necessary to say that the Ministry of the Interior cannot fully take over this facility, because it is too large, as I said at the time, only partially useful, but it is necessary to decide whether we are going to a full rehabilitation, which also includes the so-called implementation of a complete restoration with thermal insulation, with all the measures related to the proper transformation or proper rehabilitation of the facility that will cover all aspects of this reconstruction, or whether we are doing only construction-turning works and maybe changing windows, that is to say heat insulation in this respect, for the needs of our officers. So, it doesn't exactly hold to the fact that we haven't done anything, both options are made from a project point of view. I expect that within 14 days or at most within one month, we will have a final picture of how changing premises by the Ministry of Public Administration and the Municipality of Krška and a comprehensive decision on what will happen in these premises; that is, part of the police, and then of course there is no reason, at least according to my estimates, or no reservation that the proper approach to implementation concerns the administration as we have discussed. But it is true that it takes some time for such rehabilitation. If I had announced at the time of February that it would be possible to arrange this by November, I must say that it is not possible to do so by November, but it is certainly possible to conclude with all these renewals and relocations, as promised, by spring, which is to be expected by the end of our term of office. I believe that's what we're going to do. All the activities that have begun are going according to plan. It is true that you have already wished, honourable Member, to see this plan several times. I expect that within 14 days, I will be able to submit it within three weeks, and from this plan I will see exactly what the project-level activities are, and what are the activities needed to make this happen in practice, that is to say, on the ground itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u316	Thank you, Chairman. I've got an answer for myself today to talk, but, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: Didn't anyone work on this facility and the project during the holidays? Do you know, Minister, that you are the one who can get the interpolation immediately? However, the employees of the Ministry will, normally, still sit and I remind you of this, I have warned the previous government and the current government as well. You ministers are the one who's gonna have to hit the table. I'm telling you this because I believed and I hope you have the staff under control. Look, a lot of state buildings are empty. I really want to know why. Of course, they all fail together, and large rents are being paid for state institutions instead of being settled in empty state buildings. I really hope that this facility will be settled within your term of office, and it will be accommodated by the Southern Border Protection Authority, as you promised. However, I would ask that within fourteen days, not three weeks, you send me a time-table after months on activities on the CKZ 55a building and I will warn you again if what is written in the time-table is not done; it is said, for the month of September, October, November, December, January, February, March. By the end of March, I hope the police will be there to protect the southern border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u318	Your Honour, thank you for this debate. Of course, I have to give you full confirmation. True, we are responsible for our employees. I am also aware that none of you are interested in what is happening at the Ministry, so there is a chairman, in which case I and of course I must be responsible for the work as well as for the work. This case is a great proof to me that certain cuts will be required within certain services, because in fact, as you said, nothing happens at the Ministry for two months is unacceptable. Of course, each of the officials has their own reasons why nothing has settled, but it is always so if you do not try with new people in existing places, and if you insist on one and the same, many times nothing moves. However, as regards this very well-founded observation of state property, which is either empty or failing, and of the simultaneous rental of state-owned private space institutions, I will give you absolutely right. I did my own analysis at the Ministry, where we rent the premises, which means the police across the country. I must say that in this case, when we talk about your locations, these rentals are virtually non-existent, but we even have a number of rented spaces across Slovenia, and I must say that with many mayors or, in fact, with everyone – whether they are right or left, I do not know what color – we are extremely good at working together. Thus we have resolved or at least signed a letter of intent in recent weeks, which will in fact allow either the transfer of some of our facilities to municipalities or the construction of new facilities and the release of some old facilities that are in the interest of municipalities, especially in the old city cores, or the release of those locations that are still in the lease. These rentals are mainly on the side – or given by private, natural persons and I must say that we have done so, for example, in Ajdovščina, Tolmin, we are solving the matter in Maribor, in Trebnje we agreed on such solutions. So there are a few of these, and finally in Ljubljana we are preparing to release some of our old buildings in the city centre and to use them more meaningfully within the city core. I also absolutely support this idea of yours, as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, to these anomalies, the approach. As it is said, this particular case in Krška is not such a case, given that this facility is state-owned, but it is true that it has been abandoned, uncontained for several years, and it makes sense to awaken it to life again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u319	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Jože Lenart has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! The only question for you today, but I think it's so much more important, and we're gonna try to prove it. See, the organic food market is the fastest growing agricultural market in the European Union. According to many experts, for Slovenian agriculture, the direction towards sustainable sonar agriculture is logical and organic mainly due to the diversity and configuration of the terrain. Not only do we need an effective financial support environment, but, of course, the courage to make this organic agriculture one of the fundamentals in the creation of agricultural policies. It may sound blasphemous, but it is a fact that some of the most agriculturally developed countries in Europe are showing us. In Europe, as you know, there are already intensive legislative frameworks for sonar agriculture and we will also have to implement them in Slovenia. The target is 25 percent organic farming. You are probably well aware that the organic food market is no longer a fashion fly as fast as it comes. The fact is, organic production is nothing new. Naturally, our ancestors had already grown, and then there was an interruption in the age of accelerated industrialisation. In short, we're not going to do anything new, we're just going back to the roots. We are well aware that talking about organic farming and not taking into account climate change is also extremely irresponsible and therefore the logical continuation of a co-natural and sustainable approach to Slovenian agriculture in innovation and development. In Slovenia, some of the most excellent representatives of organic agriculture receive international awards. Most of them are found in the vineyards where we read, and they have proved that they can. Environmental farming also results in the processing and creation of added value and how successful organic farming in relation to tourism can, of course, be known. Take a look at our exceptional tourist farms and, of course, also Ana Roš, who works with local farmers. The demand for organic food is much higher than we can produce in Slovenia. Let's also touch our neighbouring Austria, as I like to do this comparison. In Austria, almost 25 per cent of this organic farming is already achieved, although more than once gross added value, GDP reaches and added value, but at this primary level they can be found and organic farming is also a priority for them as well as wood-processing activities. That the system of incentives in the current financial perspective for sonar agriculture has been financially reserved and modest compared to the share of conventional agriculture, is also known. The funds for organic agriculture amounted to only 6 per cent of all available resources, plus a low 20 per cent of the remaining unspent. This is also an essential issue: What share does intervention in organic farming and agri-environment-climate payments have over the next programming period compared to all available resources? Do you see progress? Where, then, are the reasons why we are so far behind the average of the European Union today? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u322	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Lenart, the other Members and Members of Parliament! I really thank you for this question, because the issue of organic agriculture is also an extremely important issue for the Republic of Slovenia. In our department, our ministry is also appropriately preparing a strategic plan for a new programming period. At this point in time, we are in the planning phase, and I can already say that if we have spent around 66 million on organic agriculture for a period of 7 years, that is 9 million and a half a year in the next programming period, we will spend 73 million on organic agriculture for a period of 5 years because we are talking from 2023 to 2027; that is about 14 million per year. The difference is significant. Of course, the difference is also significant because we probably have a little more ambitious goals in our ministry as well as our own representatives of agricultural stakeholders in the Republic of Slovenia and even more ambitious targets than the European Commission directly expects us to. Both in the strategic plan and in the action plan for organic agriculture, we will pursue the goal of 18% of ecological areas in Slovenia at the end of this programming period. Today we have about 10, between 10 and 11 per cent of the organic land and about 5 per cent of the agricultural holdings at this point in an ecological way. We are aware of quite a few challenges facing organic agriculture. Certainly one of these challenges is also the market, the organic food market. And thanks to the Agriculture Act, which was adopted just before the holiday leave, we have also changed one issue to this end, which is likely to increase the demand for organic food in public food establishments, namely that the agricultural inspection or agricultural inspection will also give us the competence of the Green Public Procurement Regulation in public food establishments. Thus, public food establishments will also have to buy 15 percent of food of organic origin and 20 percent of food of other quality schemes. And we have given the agricultural inspection this authority and also some sanctions. Let me get on with it. Even in this same Agricultural Act, we are not looking at organic agriculture with multiple angles, so in the various measures we are implementing, so I started with the law, maybe I will end up with a strategic plan again. [[…]] In this same Agricultural Law, we have also made it possible to group certification for organic agriculture, which is also very important in this spirit of cost reduction, simplification, debarcation for individual farmers, but we can go into a group certification process similar to that of the so-called certification of selected quality, which in practice has already been very well received and runs well, where organisers are already doing so and helping individual farmers in this certification. This does not mean that we are moving away from the demands, but we are only simplifying certification and debirocratizing. So only organic agriculture will be included in other matters of the strategic plan, other objectives. All organic farmers will also be eligible for payments in the areas with the factors mentioned above, and will also receive production-related payments, as well as a separate public call for investment in development and competitiveness and the orientation of organic farms in the new strategic plan. This will be a new intervention in the new programming period. That's not what she's into. That's exactly how we're going to set up eco-regions. In connection with group certification, we also have reserved funds for this financial measure, in order to be able to establish organic agriculture in some areas, so that we do not have organic farmers scattered throughout Slovenia, but to concentrate them at least in some areas, which also makes it very cheap to collect, say, milk, meat, crops, products for later processing and then prepare for the final consumer. Similarly, organic farmers will receive higher support, higher levels of support for other animal welfare investments, climate change and so on. Also in young takeovers – as a novelty in the new programming period. Young takeovers taking over the organic farm will be able to receive higher aid rates. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u324	Yes, thank you very much. It sounded good, but despite taking advantage of the time available to us, perhaps we can add a few more questions. We know that solar farming, of course, requires enormous knowledge, will and energy. Of course, these farmers are most aware of this. The Danish have done this very sectorally with intensive practical training in the fields or in the barn and so on. See, 30 percent of eggs in Denmark come from organic farming — as an example. We have the biggest problem in Slovenia in the transfer of knowledge. Young farmers already understand best the benefits offered by organic crops on the market. Many of them should be more actively involved in advisory services. We need individual approaches to farmers and farmers. In Slovenia, the vast majority of farmers are still employed and organic farming and value added earnings are also an excellent opportunity for them. The education of organic farmers is provided for only a few hours in five years, although much more knowledge is needed for this form of farming than for conventional farming. As early as last year, your ministry, together with representatives of organic farms, found that one of the main problems is insufficient, inefficient human resources malnutrition and the operation of agricultural advisory services in the field of organic farming, which need to be strengthened at national level. To this end, an agreement has been reached with both yours and the Environment Ministry to establish a new accelerant service to be financed from the Climate Change Fund, which unfortunately is not working today. The acceleration service should be included in the Action Plan for the Development of Organic Agriculture. How do you feel about what we can do in this area? Has progress been made, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, to allocate resources to strengthen organic farming from the Climate Fund? This is an important issue in particular for the financing of a specialised eco-agricultural promotion service which would, of course, work at national level. What can you say about that?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u326	Thank you very much for that question. Maybe one thought at the beginning. The development of organic agriculture will certainly be best promoted by the functioning market for organic crops. To this end, we will also use the strategic plan to provide a specific intervention for the integration, cooperation and marketing of organic crops to help farmers. Even now, when we talk to representatives of organic agriculture, we find that this is certainly one of the priorities at this point in time to try to put what we are producing on the market. It is therefore necessary to work on short chains and therefore it is necessary to work on integration, cooperation, and therefore on these market activities as much as possible. Let me add another sentence. I hope that it will not only be a strategic plan or a financial intervention that will be an exclusive factor in the decision to engage in organic agriculture, but a number of other conditions must also be met. I would like to see farms decide on organic agriculture primarily on the basis of market mechanisms and then on the basis of others. Therefore, the strategic plans and financial interventions are also an incentive, but they cannot be an exclusive factor in the decision, since after a five-year period, we have always found that farmers leave organic agriculture. This has also happened to us, for example, last year, when the five-year period in which organic farmers must insist has ended. So we are aware of this need to be made to help organic farmers. Knowledge and knowledge transfer and training of the public agricultural advisory service. Funds are also earmarked for the training of the public agricultural advisory service during the new programming period. We are aware that this is one of the key issues, because organic agriculture is not that you forget that you have something in the field and then you have everything going on there, but organic agriculture needs more knowledge, more experience to be able to grow in this way: higher added values and also so it needs really much, much new knowledge, experience, so that we can also, in different ways, solve problems with weeds, diseases, pests, nutrients and so on. [[…]] We will also make it possible in our strategic plan to carry out activities and possibly set up, and above all I want to carry out activities at the so-called demonstration centres. As far as the Climate Change Fund is concerned, the Minister and I are on the line. In some ways, there is a positive signal, so we will also be able to prepare possible baselines for some eco-agricultural specialists with a suitable agreement with the Minister of the Environment of the Climate Change Fund. Let me mention that we have also anticipated the so-called Voucher consultation, but because of the practically strongly negative view of the majority of stakeholders, we have then withdrawn this VV consultation from the strategic plan for the new programming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u328	As I expected, we still have a chance — and I was in a hurry to ask myself questions, but as much content as I could, you were trying to answer. Many questions are still open, particularly in relation to water protection areas, in order to prohibit the use of herbicides and so on. There's a lot of other questions. Therefore, of course, it is very sensible for this issue to come to a general discussion, which is my concrete proposal. However, if, on Wednesday, this matter is not to be voted on in order to have a general debate, however, I am already predicting to you today that we will convene a meeting of the committee to discuss this issue more broadly, because also users, farmers, those who are committed to it, probably also want such broader debates so that they can also prepare themselves and decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklovar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u330	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting, Minister! We are ahead of the autumn and according to the NIJZ and the government we have already stepped firmly into this fourth wave of the epidemic, as it seems. At the same time, the first dose of the vaccine will last almost one year in December, with a few months missing. As a result, we have come to the point where the so-called booster dose is increasingly being discussed or vaccination for all providers of DSOs over 70 years of age and particularly vulnerable chronic patients has already begun. Others may be vaccinated at the time of signature if they so wish. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How did you determine the groups to receive this booster dose? I ask in particular in the direction of blood examination – this is what I am interested in – finding IgG antibodies, says those that occur after a certain period of time that are antibodies to sars, against covid. I'm asking: Why should a booster dose be given to those who have a high presence of these antibodies? Why is it not up to you who are part of the course to examine blood before this booster dose and then, on the basis of the blood count of the individual who wants to be vaccinated or who belongs to the various groups listed above, to determine if this third dose is a real third vaccination, whether it makes sense to him or not? I think a blood test would give you a little bit better information. We know that some are also well protected. Those who have gotten over and have a huge amount of antibodies inside of them are also well protected. But some people are worse, because that's what this is all about. Some patients also have more antibodies than they have been vaccinated. More. We know this because these analyses were done and I read not only Slovenian but also the world media. In this regard, I am also interested in: Why not examine the blood before the end of the illness? That's it. And in the presence of a sufficiently large number of these antibodies have prolonged the period of disease if they have them. Why did you go from eight months to six months if they still have so many antibodies? You didn't give that information, which is why I'm interested. So far, so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u332	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, all present, distinguished Mr Marko Bandelli! Thank you very much for this important issue at the time of dealing with the epidemic and, of course, the achievement and implementation of the key measures to combat the epidemic. As for the first question, how did we determine the groups that received the booster dose, this is a professional question, and this was suggested by the expert. The second part of your question is strictly professional, but I'm still going to try to answer that question. On the professional issues related to vaccination, we have a consultative group at the National Institute for Public Health on vaccination, which is defined in these professional dilemmas or questions and provides guidance or recommendations. As regards the third dose or the booster dose, including the first-dose patient receiving the booster dose, it is of course necessary to know that the EEAS, according to the European Agency for Disease Control and Prevention, issued recommendations on 1 September that the additional dose should be used primarily to immunize the immunodeficiency and the elderly, especially the guardians of the home of older citizens. There is clear evidence that vaccines available prevent severe disease flow, hospitalisation, or death with much protection. Thus, the National Institute’s Vaccination Advisory Group recommended that booster doses be administered to caregivers at home of older citizens, all over 70 years of age, chronic patients, regardless of age, immunodeficiency patients, regardless of age, all who wish and have spent more than 6 months since vaccination. We also invited those under the same conditions, which means that more than 6 months have passed, who may have been vaccinated for the first or full time abroad, to finally obtain a Slovenian European digital certificate at the third dose. As far as the effectiveness of vaccination in the Slovenian space is concerned, I think that the homes of older citizens are an example of how effective the measure has been and how successful vaccination can infect the epidemic. Last year, in Slovenia, about 15 percent were hospitalized from the homes of older citizens, according to the elderly. Today we have an exception to some kind of hospitalized person. As far as antibodies are concerned, of course, the professional circles say that data related to this are not yet reliable. What kind of information to explain? It is said that the level of protection after illness cannot be clearly concluded or that any decision on vaccination can be taken. At the same time, the serological test tells us that we have some IgG antibodies, but it doesn't tell us how long it's been since the infection. It is also true that none of the expert international organisations has yet identified the correlation between antibody concentrations and neutralising antibodies that actually provide protection against infection. In short, the concentration of antibodies, as you yourself said, is lower over time in the blood. It is, of course, recommended that a booster dose be administered over a certain period of time. This applies to a number of vaccinations, both for tetanus and all others that may be listed. Therefore, it is essential that this is accepted. Now for the 180-day question. The fact is that 22 and 23 countries in Europe have been set for 180 days of disease. And to unify, because 240 days applies only in Slovenia, but if you went to another country, with the exception of Croatia and Italy, of course this condition did not apply. It is therefore right that we are united with the other countries. So much for now, and I still believe there's something else I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u334	I was hoping you'd say a little more about the expertise on these blood bodies. I think that's the argument that's gonna be the most important thing about this tomorrow. Because that is how they turn, as far as what I have read, including the media and foreign expert groups in other countries. I'll tell you a couple of these. I mean, you've talked more about vaccination than that, but I'm gonna go through it, just for a second. As experts, you have convinced us that as long as we are vaccinated, we will no longer be sick. It was some kind of foundation. Or at least we can get the disease in mild form. That was, and I believe that. Now let's be clear about something; I'm vaccinated, my family's vaccinated, we're all vaccinated, and we believe it's better to be vaccinated than not to be vaccinated. And I will never deny it. I will also say that I am absolutely against compulsory vaccination. Personally, I'm not interested in others. But I have to tell you here. You also said that as long as we're vaccinated, we're not carriers. That's what other media say – watch out! We're not intolerants, which is true because we become asymptomatic. So the vaccine is asymptomatic, so we don't infect each other. In that sense. If there's one that's just being tested, if you're like a carrier, you can handle the other, but you can do the other way around. You said that as long as we're vaccinated and we get strong protection, we get to the light of this tunnel. You've always talked about 60 percent of the graft – from the start, you've gone to 80 percent now. It is said that no one had known this before, and it was moving on to a different thesis. You also said that no testing would be necessary as long as we were vaccinated. That's what we're hoping to hold on to, because then it would be a revolution if we were vaccinated to get tested. This can't happen. Here, I'd like to ask you a little more answers to these questions, and in the light of that, that's precisely why. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u336	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Mr Bandelli, for this additional question. Of course, when the vaccinated shows symptoms that could point to covid, the test site is to identify the disease, and this PCR testing. Otherwise, screening in vaccinated patients is not planned at this time according to the recommendations of the profession. As far as overcoming and vaccination is concerned, I would like to point out that studies have shown that the best protection is best, the most antibodies form the patients who are still vaccinated. Therefore, my request to everyone, regardless of when they got over it, that if they had not yet been vaccinated, they should still join the vaccination process, as the consultative group for vaccination already at the beginning of the summer or the end of the spring said that, regardless of this or as soon as it ended with acute covid-19 infection, they had approached vaccination. This is clearly an expert recommendation. What needs to be said and often concerns many people, including the profession that vaccination does not affect reproduction or reproduction, is said to be fertility. What I would like to stress and what I think Mr Bandelli wanted to stress is that we are talking about protection, protection with antibodies, and this is key under the CP protocol, let's say that T is also, but T is the moment that buys us time to achieve C and P. And what we can influence and safely, and there are the least complications, is C. We can all get through, only there are significantly more difficult processes, complications with severe hospitalizations and death. This has also been clearly demonstrated by studies. What I would like to ask is that we are aware that the target is a 70 per cent severing of the entire population and this predicts, as elsewhere in Western Europe, a release. This is our main goal as an open society. In this way, schools will be open and we will be competitive. We will be able to achieve this, and here I agree with Mr Bandell here, only in a unified view of this. That is why such questions need to be answered from the outside. But the profession has not yet provided definitive answers regarding antibodies and monitoring. That's why I can't give you any more details today. However, as far as the link between the epidemic is concerned, it is crucial that we all decide on the release together with sufficient grafting. Therefore, my request, as you yourself have said: «We are all vaccinated in our home», that we all approach vaccination, because only the vaccinated will be able to effectively control the epidemic. So thank you all for your help and your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u338	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think you've been very clear about this, too, you've understood my point of view as far as this is concerned. Many questions are also coming to us in the Group of Members. You know what it is and why they ask us certain things and how and how. People are worried in terms of, they're over, they're really over, and there's a lot of units in them, they've also given me numbers, they've shown me certificates all they are, but after six months, still those with a huge number of units should either be vaccinated or Green Pass is no longer valid to say so. There's a problem. Give it to the expert group, because it's already started abroad, I've seen it, and I've seen it take this matter into account. I know the studies are still going, I think there's still studies going on. We don't have the right results, but we're hoping to move forward in this direction that antibodies, this serological examination should be the main indicator of what's going on in your body. Since some people do not react in the same way as others, we know. One can receive vaccination in one way or another. I think it is very, very important that we somehow extend this debate to have this debate a little bit larger, a little wider in the professional sense, including with other experts here with us. One more thing before I finish, because I've already been given the chance for this little part. I am very surprised by the third dose, the Minister, where the statement says exactly, I am interested in what you will answer me, may in writing, not a problem, “because of the non-registration of the third dose of the vaccine”. [[…]] Do you understand? In fact, they must declare that vaccination is carried out at their request and that they give their consent by signing. They're consenting to something that's not funky, actually. This is said: “We are deprived of all responsibility, you yourself wanted a third dose”. By wanting and requiring the third dose to be. But you heard the latest information from the FDA in the United States, where they won't allow a booster dose because they said it's only for those over 65 years. You have to do a little cleaning here because people are confused right now. Some require a third dose and you have to sign a statement, on the other hand, you see that in America, they say otherwise, the third dose is not yet recommended, except for those 65 years of age or older. I'm talking in the light of what's going on today, because you can see that we're not left now, right, we're wary of vaccines, non-vaccinators. Sad for Slovenia, extremely sad for Slovenia. In the light of this, the President, I would really like to ask and want and I think it would be right for the Government alone to make a public debate on this subject by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the last report. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! My question is, of course, about the economic and economic situation in the European Union and in Slovenia as well. Last time you had finance ministers at Brdo pri Kranju meeting where you talked about all of these, I'll say, anomalies, anomalies. In fact, the European Union, the Commission, has decided to deal with the cod epidemic in a way that would provide liquid assets and lend them to the Member States. That's what you know. In fact, the European Union, despite the covid epidemic, is recovering in some way, but there are other risks. So in all countries, public debt is growing and this is also growing in those countries that are more indebted than Slovenia, and in Slovenia this debt reached 86% and grew faster than in other countries. We have a high fiscal deficit and despite the fact that GDP is somehow or even above the level before the outbreak occurs, we have very high expenditure. So the revenue will be around €10 billion and the expenditure will be €14 billion; so this hole will be some €4 billion, and we are, of course, in debt. The same thing happened last year, probably the same thing will happen next year when the fiscal rule does not apply. I am interested, however, in the Government's announcements after tax reforms, the new tax reliefs and the announcements made by the Government with new laws, in the following three, four, five years, I am interested in the medium-term projection: What revenue, tax revenue, are you planning in the Slovenian budget and what expenditure are you planning? I'm wondering how these things are going to be settled. It is clear to me that the Maastricht criterion of public debt will probably no longer be as strict as it was, but nevertheless, the balance of the budget with income and expenditure, which is essentially a matter of personal hygiene. The European Union will require this as soon as possible. I want to know: At what time is the Government planning to offset the expenditure and revenue of the budget over the next five years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u342	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, and thank you very much also Master Andrei Reich for this question. I'd like to make a correction here first, if you don't mind, Mr. Reich. In 2021, it will not be a public debt of 86 percent, but it will be 78.5%. And if there's more projection because you're asking about projections 2022, I estimate 77.5% and then further decline to 75 percent of GDP in the next year. Similarly, if we speak – this is preliminary data, you will get the final data or more reliable data from the budget, with a postponement until 2024 and so on. We are obliged to report all this to the European Commission. We can also, of course, talk about deficits, which I think we are talking about deficits or deficits in Slovenian, that we have two methods. One is the cash flow method. I think that this deficit will fall from the current estimates in 2021 7.9 to about 4.6% in 2022 and then to 2.6 in 2023. If we speak according to ESMA’s methodology, then between 6.9 and 4 percent in 2023, 2022 – 6 percent. Thus, of course, the direction of development is clear from this point of view. Now you've asked me about revenue and expenditure, I've told you the percentage of GDP differences, so that's of course that now. I think there's going to be more revenue. Here are the results achieved by the European Commission or by the European Commission, and Europe has achieved a surprising positive outcome here. Surprisingly, because economic growth is higher than expected in Slovenia, especially because unemployment is lower than expected and because we have actually kept jobs, businesses and so on in Slovenia. From this point of view, I can say the following: vaccines against the virus were recognised in an extremely fast time – I speak as a layman, an expert is a minister of health – which, of course, means that we have protected a particular population, especially those who want to be vaccinated. This has also enabled economic growth and employment. What we can do is, of course, that those who have not yet been vaccinated are being vaccinated, and that we all do together not to see the vaccine and vaccination as a problem in society, but simply as an opportunity that this society has, in order to increase the welfare of people, bring optimism into the economy, greater growth and, of course, greater income, better results and so on. In short, we need to look at the whole issue here – including vaccination, transplantation, testing and so on as a challenge for further development, not as part of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain, a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we all agree that the economy is crucial to the welfare of citizens, but in fact, I do not think I have the answer to one part of the question. The government announces the adoption of new laws with unappreciated financial implications, while at the same time announces on the other hand tax relief. Of course, somehow, I think these things are not going together; they are not going along with GDP, so that debt is going to decrease as a percentage. I find it hard to believe that the consequences of the epidemic will somehow be covered or financed continuously by borrowing or, if the 10-year loan is not right, Europe will give a 20-year bond, or a 30-year-old bond or a 40-year-old bond. That's how you can't really live. It is likely that the share or cost of debt repayment will increase. Of course, these are the risks that I think should be addressed. And the question is, for example, what happens if someone strictly starts to enforce a fiscal rule. I probably believe that the European Commission will not order this, but if it does, then the municipalities will all of a sudden be without income for their obligations. In this regard, I would therefore ask you or ask you for an answer concerning these laws, which are in government procedure and will have financial implications: How does this go with the tax reliefs announced?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u346	Thank you very much, thank you very much for the additional question. Certainly there are risks in the economy, but at the moment – and I think in the future – there are risks under control in Europe and Slovenia. You ask — you mentioned the congregations. See, the congregations today are not at any risk of their income. So they actually got not only a larger average today, but they also got the opportunity to invest much more freely or, if you want, to invest freely in the infrastructure that is most important to them. As a result, of course, they satisfy what people need most because people meet their needs primarily in the congregations. Thus, from this point of view, the congregations are completely exempt here. Second: you are talking about planned investments and tax reliefs. Here are planned investments in health care, nursing homes, and so on. Yes, because they are planned, it is easier to plan budgets, including revenue and expenditure. As we have economic growth, revenues are increasing. Today, public data are: revenues are higher than they were in 2019 – in 2019! – and slightly more than 20 per cent than in 2020. But for me it was not so relevant in 2020, because it was an extraordinary year because he was a co-worker because we closed the economy because we closed the activities and so on, but 2019, which was a completely normal year. And here, of course, now that we're talking about income and this anticipated tax relief, it means – what? It means lower workload. Today, work is most taxed among the five countries in Slovenia according to the OECD methodology. It means greater competitiveness, of course greater competitiveness means that, of course, we can export more, sell more at home – more consumption. And, of course, on this basis, we will also be able to have higher incomes, provided that we are healthy. But we'll be healthy if we're vaccinated. And if we are vaccinated, we will have greater economic growth, greater development and greater prosperity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u348	Your Honor! I propose a procedural proposal to discuss this important topic at one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. The fact is that if we do have an adopted law that grants someone rights and these rights are not based on income, then this law simply cannot be enforced. And if we know that everything in Slovenia, so not only in Slovenia, is being irritated by raw materials, energy is being irritated, food is being irritated, I will say that one degree of risk of poverty can be increased as a result of this, access to basic people's goods is difficult. Of course, I think it is necessary to discuss all these matters, because I fear that the future, due to these financial conditions, and not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe, is quite uncertain. That is why I am particularly concerned by the announcement that if we reduce taxes, the consumption will be higher. This, however, is true of the richer, and on the other hand, it may be that someone is deprived of his rights. That's why I'm asking for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-20-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Minister and the ministers for their answers. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 22 September 2021, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
