ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 89th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. There are no honourable Members or Members for today's session. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 89th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 14 December 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Since we have not received any proposals to extend the agenda, I propose that the meeting today be held on the agenda, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. (The vote was 73.)(Nobody.) I'm guessing the agenda is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law amending the law on Intervention Measures for Militia and to the end of the consequences of Epidemia of Commodity-19 within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and three Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. At its 67th urgent meeting, on 8 December 2021, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to be the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ones you have to talk to, please go to the lobby. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u2	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Since both agenda items refer to the same content – the extension of tourist vouchers issued in 2020 and 2021, I will present the position of the SAB Group on both agenda items at this first point. As has already been said, the fundamental purpose of both novel anti-Korona packages is to extend the validity of tourist vouchers which would expire at the end of this year until including 31 July 2022. In the SAB Group, we agree with the proposaler's comments that the extension of this measure in the light of the consequences of the epidemic, both in terms of limited opportunities for the use of vouchers and in terms of aid to the economy, has not yet been able to benefit many individuals from the vouchers, especially those issued this year with the ninth anti-coron law. In doing so, I would like to point out that many individuals, due to low incomes and also the consequences of the epidemic, cannot afford the additional costs associated with the use of tourist facilities. There are 254,000 inhabitants and inhabitants, a quarter of whom live below the threshold of poverty, two thirds of them pensioners and pensioners. This social group needs much more than tourist services to help cover everyday costs such as housing costs, rents, the costs of energy consumers whose prices are flying to the sky. We have been alerting the incoming energy poverty in the SAB for quite some time. With a view to the prevention and containment dimension of the crisis, we have therefore tabled an amendment to both proposed novelties to extend the use of vouchers for electricity, fuel, heating oil, natural gas services which are fully implemented and used in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Beneficiaries who have not yet benefited from their bonus could make this up to the providers of the services mentioned above. In the SAB Group, we are disappointed by the Prime Minister's response that the government will not be able to deal with the energy crisis until next year, and thus wait for the energy boost to have serious consequences for many. Members of the SAB have supported both proposals of the law. Both amendments are also proposed. Finally, the government is urged to listen to the warnings and extend the possibility of using the vouchers in the forthcoming 10th anti-Korona law, which will be dealt with before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u4	In the Group of Non-Related Members and Members of Parliament, we have prepared a novelty of the third anti-Korona package, where we propose to extend the validity of last year's tourist vouchers for payment of bed and breakfast at accommodation facilities in Slovenia, until 31 July of next year. Tourism has been growing ever since independence in Slovenia. Prior to the outbreak, this industry represented more than 12 % of GDP and 33 % of all exports of services. In addition, it provided more than 50,000 jobs. Slovenia has established itself as an attractive green tourist destination and for last year tourist workers originally expected an increase in the number of foreign tourists, but the covida-19 epidemic crossed the plans. Tourism has suffered untold consequences as a result. Last year, 51% less tourist arrivals were recorded than in 2019 and 42% less tourist accommodation than in the previous year. So Slovenian tourism is currently in numbers from ten years ago. It's gonna be a long time. The figures from 2019 could not return to the figures according to some forecasts until 2024. Until then, however, the tourism sector should be allowed to maintain its jobs and provide assistance to overcome liquidity problems and facilitate further development and return to business. This has also been helped by last year's tourist vouchers, the main purpose of which was to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic in tourism activities. Since the beginning of December this year, the value of these vouchers has been used around 243 million and 67% respectively. So a third of the value of tourist vouchers remains untapped. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that there are only half of the value of this year's new vouchers still uncollected. The total value of unexploded old and new vouchers is therefore well above EUR 200 million. However, since the government has not been inclined and unwilling to listen to concerned representatives of the tourism sector until today's amendment has been submitted to the legislative process, we have decided to act on our own. We have prepared an amendment to the law in question which would allow the extension of last July's tourist vouchers until 31 July. In addition, the novelty also gives the government a new opportunity to decide by the end of July whether to extend the validity of the new vouchers for a further few months by the end of next year. And that is precisely where our proposal differs significantly from the government's. While the government is proposing in its 10th anti-korona package the possibility of extending the validity of last year's tourist vouchers by a decision of 30 June at the most. But here the story with the vouchers after the government proposal ends, as after this date of renewal it will no longer be possible. If anything, in the last two years, the covida-19 epidemic has proved to be very unpredictable. I'm sure it's just that we can't know how and when the fourth wave and all of the next possible waves of the epidemic will continue. Unfortunately, there was no listening to support at the mother's working body meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u6	Dear Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The covida-19 epidemic has profoundly changed our lives. Not only has it reached into the area of our health, but it has reached into all our areas. We may be able to boast of lower unemployment, but the picture in the field of tourism is different. All possible closures forced us to learn the beauty of Slovenia. I'm sure half of Slovenk and the Slovenians didn't even know that our little country was going through this kind of wealth. This was certainly helped by the government candy in the form of tourist vouchers. It is true that as a result, we have allowed citizens more home, but it is difficult to say that for more time. Those who had visited our pearls in any way before, we quickly noticed that the prices of tourism activities were rising to the sky. If I recall correctly, last year we even had a media-response affair when the prices of vouchers and non-accommodation payments at the same time as the same number and age of people varied up to a few hundred euros. Furs' data on December 12th said that 70% of the potential revolving vouchers were cashed. 30% of last year's vouchers have not been cashed out, and applicants believe that if we extend them until 31 July 2022, we will help both tourism and people significantly. But I don't know if that's what this is all about. Although I would understand that it is being extended until the end of September, because people go on vacation at that time, and a number of people have a regular vacation in August. It would be even more logical for me to set this date at the end of 2022, which is 31 December. But I seriously doubt that people will really spend this extension. I leave the possibility that among these 30% who have not yet spent their vouchers, even those who have had a substantial reason not to do so this year and a half. However, it is much more likely that we have reached the percentage of people who have actually been able to afford to benefit from the vouchers. This reminds me a bit of a time of independence when some did not want Slovenian citizenship, but some now want compensation. But if I go back to the vouchers. 200 euros for a full-year-old person, as far as the value of the voucher is concerned, is not much. People could only spend that amount for a night’s sleep or a night’s sleep. Where's the road and the food? It is true, however, that it is said that proponents fight for people and want to extend the vouchers to save tourism. If so, then in the Slovenian National Party we add that we propose that last year's tourist vouchers be extended until 31 December 2024, because epidemiologists predict that covid-19 will be between us at least until then. It is true, however, that the Slovenian National Party does not have its own representative on the Committee and, as a result, we were unable to support this proposal, because the proposal nevertheless makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Act on Amendments to the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Covida-19 Epidemic has been put into action by the Group of Unaffiliated Members. The main purpose of the amendment is to extend the tourist vouchers which the government of Janez Janša has dedicated to the assistance of tourism in 2020 and whose validity would otherwise have expired by 31. 12. 2021. Let me immediately say that we are certainly aware of the problem that the applicants wanted to address with a new bill, so in the PKP proposal10, which we will see in the National Assembly, I hope that this month we have proposed an extension of the vouchers up to 30. 6. 2022. It should be noted that we will not vote on the proposed amendment of the law at the end of this meeting, as the competent labour force has not adopted the content of the law, and therefore the procedure for deciding on the bill has been completed. The procedure for the draft law was completed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons mainly because of the position expressed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. This said that by extending a measure to the government by a decision first, and then by law, the National Assembly would violate legal certainty. According to the ZPS, such an approach is not in line with the statutory competence of the National Assembly and the principle of legality, while the proposed entry into force of the bill departs from the general deadline. In summary, the content of the bill was rejected on the home labour body and we will not vote on it today. The validity of the tourist vouchers we received in 2020 will be extended by the Government on a proposal from the CAP 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u10	The measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on the service sector, catering and tourism have been late and inadequate since the beginning and have further exacerbated the negative consequences of the closure of these activities. If we remember, small entrepreneurs initially ran out of all the necessary financial resources, without the means to restart, without the hope of getting rid of the hopeless situation at that time. As we know, companies in these sectors are still facing liquidity problems, lack of adequate staffing and only full economic relaxation and the extension of tourist vouchers will be difficult to resolve. However, at least part of this is about raising corporate income. The two proposed legislative changes are intended to mitigate the negative consequences of the epidemic, which unfortunately is still going on, even though it has not been declared. We could help with tourism, hospitality, sport and culture and thus at least slightly improve the economic situation in these sectors. The proposed amendments to the CAP9 would extend the validity of new vouchers, i.e. 2021 vouchers, and the possibility of using them for tourist, catering, sports and cultural purposes until 31 July 2022. At the time of submission of the proposal, the validity of the refund was only possible until 31 December 2021. However, the amendment to the CAP3 would allow for the extension of last year's tourist vouchers and could therefore be used as a new option up to and including 31 July 2022. The epidemiological situation in Slovenia is poor, so we believe that the measure should be extended at least until the end of July next year. This could prevent the mass visit of tourist destinations and guesthouses only with a view to the use of vouchers and thus, of course, contribute to the reduction of the number of new infections. In addition, a large proportion of both last year's and this year's vouchers remained unused. This would primarily help mountain winter centres and other tourist providers at a time when less tourists are, as we know that the last two winter seasons have been very bad. Otherwise, all the positive effects achieved so far by the implementation of this measure could be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u12	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellows! Social Democrats will present a common position for both amendments to the law, as the main purpose of both proposals is the same, thus allowing the validity of both current tourist vouchers to be extended. The first amendment prolongs the validity of the tourist vouchers introduced by the Act on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic or so-called third package of intervention measures. In this way, it was possible to use the overnight voucher until 31 July 2022 and not only until 31 December 2021, as currently in force. The second amendment of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism, while extending the validity of so-called new tourist vouchers 2021 in favour of the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The proposal to amend the law thus provides for the possibility of using new vouchers by 31 July 2022 and not only by 31 December 2021. Social Democrats believe that, in the current situation and in the still highly unpredictable course of the epidemic, it makes sense to extend the validity of both tourist vouchers, as this would allow citizens to make full use of the vouchers and help the Slovenian economy. Approximately one-third of the value of tourist vouchers has not yet been used, especially since numerous cancellations and withdrawals due to government measures have occurred again in the fourth wave of the epidemic. The extension of the validity of both tourist vouchers is, in particular, supported by helping winter and mountain tourist centres in the coming winter tourist season, in which accommodation establishments in the previous winter due to severe epidemiological conditions should not receive guests at all. The proposal of both laws would thus allow for further, at least partially, mitigation of the negative economic consequences of the still ongoing epidemic mainly for tourism, sports and cultural services providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much, Mrs. Cleaner. As has already been said, the main objective of the proposed law is essentially to allow for the extension of the validity of old and new vouchers for 2020 and 2021 introduced by the Law on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the Covid-19 Epidemic. We're talking antikoronic package 3 and antikoronic package 9. First of all, we need to clear one fact thoroughly, and this is that the government has given nothing or a gift to no one, because all the money flowing into the State Treasury is from all of us citizens and citizens, from us people. Because then we, the people, could say in cold blood to the government or to the Prime Minister, that he should then take on his shoulders all the hard work and debt that he has created, not all the debt he owes to all of us citizens and citizens, and not to the shoulders of the President or of this government. In particular, it should also be noted that beneficiaries, even those low-income voucher beneficiaries, spend virtually all their money to survive or spend their lives. Unfortunately, you are already fundamentally deprived, and even more difficult than previously mentioned in the second position, they are able to afford the additional costs incurred in addition to those vouchers that have been issued. Such candy governments are actually very good to see, good to hear, but when one looks at them for a long time, they actually do more damage than good. As it is said, in Slovenia we have many pensions and pensioners who live or more than half the pensioners and pensioners live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia. These pensioners cannot afford even heating because of this government, but if they can afford heating, they cannot afford food for themselves and for anyone else many times. These vouchers, which should in fact be of the greatest importance or weight to bring to all those employees working in these industries, are said to be in tourism, in hospitality and then in sports and culture, in order to have higher wages in order to have better conditions, unfortunately, because of this government they have not achieved their purpose. But as we say, we're talking about our money because the government won't give anything because it's our money in the budget or in the state treasury. We, because we are talking about our money, which is people's money, have both supported the bill, but, as we say once again, the money it operates with, and the government is not from the government and from the Prime Minister and not from ministers, but from all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u15	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The main solution to the amendment of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism in Endorsing the Consequences of Covida-19 is to extend the validity of the vouchers for improving the economic situation of consumption in catering, tourism, sport and culture introduced by the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism in Endorsing the Consequences of the Covida-19 Epidemic, until 31 July 2022. The government takes a decision to extend the validity of vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of consumption in catering, tourism, sport and culture 2. 12. 2021 so-called 2021 vouchers have already been extended until 30 June 2022. It's already been extended. So the government has already solved the problem. What exactly is the problem? The amendment of the PKP3 sought to extend the validity of tourist vouchers until 31 July 2022, but the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly warned that they were doing so in an entirely inappropriate manner. They wanted the National Assembly to extend the measure of tourist vouchers by law after the Government had extended it in the preceding period by a decision. This would be in violation of several constitutional principles, legal certainty, the legal jurisdiction of the National Assembly and the principle of legality. In addition, the proposed solution would be without legal effect. The Government has already included a more appropriate basis for extending the vouchers by 30 June 2022 in the 10th anti-korona package, the so-called PKP10, which is still pending consideration in the National Assembly. The extension of both types of vouchers was announced by the government on 19 November and, look at the fraction, on the same day, both proposals were tabled with the first signed Janja Slug. Obviously, the proposers were in such a hurry to get the credit for extending the vouchers, although it was clear that this would happen anyway. It is no wonder that there has been a major legal setback in this haste, which would not actually extend the first sign of the Servant’s Lamb. The draft laws of the Janja Slug are, of course, only a quick self-promotional pear action, while at the same time a kind of recognition to the government for its good work or a good measure in the field of assistance to the most affected sectors in the epidemic. The law proposed by Janja Slug’s colleague, who is ahead of us today, has already been rejected on the working body of the mother. That is why we will not vote on these laws today. We have not supported the laws in the New Slovenia Group since they address the problems that the government has already solved or adequately solves in the intervention law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Intervention Measures to Aid Economics and Tourism in Support of the Consequences of Epidemics of Commodity-19 in the framework of an Endorsed Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and three Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. At its 42nd urgent meeting, on 10 December 2021, the draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members and by Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Apparently, the Parliamentary will show that some colleagues have the most frequently spoken word “Janja Slug”. Which is great. Today, on a proposal from unrelated Members and Members of Parliament, we are also considering a proposal for a new 9th anti-Korona package, proposing to extend the validity of new vouchers or so-called 21 vouchers, which can be cashed by beneficiaries for tourist, catering, sports or cultural purposes by 31 July next year. So far, it has turned out that many vouchers, especially in the coast, in mountain destinations and thermals, have saved the tourist season and many jobs. Although the government can now, on the basis of the current CAP9, extend the validity of the new vouchers until 30 June, which it has also done. But this is where the story ends, as after that date the renewal of the vouchers will no longer be possible. In doing so, it should be noted that the government banned the operation of tourist accommodation facilities until the end of last year due to the outbreak of the second wave of the epidemic by decree, which made it completely impossible to use last year’s vouchers. The facilities were closed for 5 months. If, even during this winter, the epidemiological situation in the country deteriorates, the worst case scenario last year can be repeated, which will make it impossible for beneficiaries to recover their vouchers. Therefore, in our proposal, on the one hand, we extend the validity of the vouchers until 31 July and, on the other hand, we give the Government the opportunity to decide, by the end of July next year, on the basis of the epidemiological situation that we will then have in the country, and also on the basis of the number of unspent vouchers, whether or not it will extend the validity of the new vouchers for a few additional months. We are of the opinion that extending the possibility of using new vouchers in the current situation is essential because of the bad epidemiological situation, because of restrictive measures, in order to provide assistance to tourism, catering, sports and cultural providers, and not least because of half of the new vouchers that have not yet been used. With the outbreak, all positive expectations in the growth of Slovenian tourism have been dilute. Both 2020 and 2021 will be recorded in history as the most difficult years for the Slovenian tourism, catering, sports and cultural sectors, as well as for the meeting industry, as this period has been marked by numerous restrictions on travel and social meetings and with the repeated complete halt to public life. The following year too will depend heavily on the epidemiological measures taken and the health picture in Slovenia and beyond. While some optimism has returned to this sector with an increasing percentage of vaccinateds, it is crucial that they continue to survive this interim period at all. Until then, both tourism and catering and the cultural and sports sectors need to be assisted and, above all, enabled to maintain jobs. This could also be done by adopting today's proposal to further mitigate the negative consequences. Unfortunately, there was not enough obedience for this proposal by the government and the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The main purpose of the amendment was to extend the vouchers that the government of Janez Janša had dedicated to the assistance of tourism, catering, culture and sport in 2021 and which would otherwise have expired from 31. 12. 2021. The fact is that the government of Janez Janša is aware of this problem, which the applicants wanted to address with a novelty of its law, is why in the PKP10 there is a proposal to extend tourist vouchers to 30. 6. 2022. In the SDS Group, we hope to confirm the law in the National Assembly as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-89.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 89th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. Thank you. The meeting was closed on 15 December 2021 at 16.54.
