ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Muršič, Nik Prebil from 9 to 11 am and from 15.30 pm to the end, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Tina Hefferle from 9:00 to 2:00 p.m., mag. Marko Koprivc from 14:00 on, Matjaž Han, Ivan Hršak from 15:00 on, Predrag Baković from 15:00 on, Mihael Prevc from 9 till 14:00, Iva Dimic from 15:00 on, Marko Bandelli from 12:00 on, Alexander Reberšek, mag. Dušan Verbič, Aljaž Kovacič, Mateja Udovč, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nada Brinovšek, Carmen Furman and Primož Siter from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. Today, the president of the government will answer four questions from the MP and members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; Members and Members, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government; this shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The question to the Prime Minister will first be posed by the Magi. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! In Slovenia as well as in the world, we are witnessing a record rise in energy prices. For the last two months, since the practically heating season, it has not been a day in the National Assembly when we would not discuss it. Virtually all energy prices, from natural gas, electricity, heating oil, coal and, as a result, emission vouchers, are growing on global markets and also in Slovenia. All of this, of course, affects the cost of heating, which is a very big and pressing problem in winter times. We must be aware that prices on global markets have increased by 100, 200, even by 500%. And so it is not only households and public institutions that are at risk; the economy is also at risk. Despite the government's statements and replies that something will be done in this area, nothing has happened so far, while households and the economy have already received the first higher rates. During this time, they also ceased to sell electricity for business reasons or stopped selling electricity to two smaller electricity suppliers, Elektro Sale E. U. and Telekom Slovenije, which resulted in the loss of 20 000 customers and resulting in up to 400% higher energy costs. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: What is happening in energy prices? What measures is the Government preparing, and when can we expect them?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you so much for asking. Something about a bigger picture first. All measures that can be effective must have, at a time when answers to some key questions are being taken, one of these key issues is how long such a situation can take, and that is the dilemma and the situation that the European Council will also discuss on Thursday, it is said, in two days. We have received a report from both energy European regulators in the last days. With regard to this fundamental issue, it is estimated that this situation with different fluctuations can last until March or April, and then the situation in energy markets, as regards supply, demand and consequently pressure on prices, will be calmed. That's the first one. Second. Similar price increases, especially when it comes to oil derivatives, and always followed by prices of natural gas, we had last autumn 2018. In October 2018, the price of crude oil judges was even higher than today, and retail prices were even higher, even though they were regulated, but no measures were taken by the then government. And there was a similar situation about seven years ago and five years earlier. In short, this is repeated in cycles. The European regulators' assessment is that this is not a permanent matter that will accompany us in the coming years, but that this is a fluctuation in a market that is not supposed to be addressed by changes in market mechanisms. It's a bigger picture. From this attempt to clarify the answers to some key questions at European level, and of course Slovenia is involved in the European and, of course, the global energy market, it follows that measures that are short-term and acceptable and in accordance with the rules of the common European market are the right measures to address the immediate problems particularly those most affected by the price rise. And in view of the scope of these measures or of the proposals, because some have not yet been adopted, this government is likely to have reached a latitude where, at least when it comes to targeted assistance to individuals, no other European country has intervened. I guess that's what you always forget. Now, as soon as it was clear that this situation would last for at least a few months over winter, the government added to the 10th anti-Korona package this Dragan supplement for pensioners, for over 300,000 pensioners and some others, especially the socially weak categories. And you've had this marriage for a month in the National Assembly. He was in the process because it was delayed by the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act. Now this path is open, and I hope that the National Assembly will adopt this law by the end of this year, so that at the beginning of next year, it will be possible to pay more than 300,000 to those who are actually the most affected by these prices. This is a significantly larger category than any other Member State of the European Union with this direct targeting. As far as businesses are concerned, the group set up by the Government proposed exploring the possibility of lowering the value added tax rate. And then, given what the debate on Thursday on the European Council will be, the Government will decide whether this measure will be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. As you can see, the situation is difficult, and ministers at EU level are aware of this. As you said, such prices will last until the end of the heating season, about March, April, such are forecasts. We believe that it is right to take action when the crisis occurs and that effective and rapid measures are needed to address this problem, because whoever gives it twice when it is necessary. True, the government has prepared packages that address people's problems, but yet these impressions that we are witnessing, food is being irritated, energy is being irritated, other living costs are being so high that it is virtually difficult with the various additions of this encouragement to somehow eliminate. We have been proactive in the SAB and have proposed that unused tourist vouchers could also be used to pay energy. We're thinking that people who couldn't afford vacations that didn't go to spas that didn't go to a hotel that they didn't spend on having something to eat at a restaurant, that these people were the ones who were at risk. And given that half of this year's vouchers are still unexploited and that last year's vouchers are also unused, it seems to us that the set for their use seems to be expanding meaningfully. We want to know: What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you, too, for this additional question. The tourist vouchers in the second edition were extended to some cultural and other services. They were not only helping people, but also helping the most affected part of the service economy. It is said that the goal was not to get these vouchers and spend them on anything, in this case also for the payment of energy bills, but for services that will not stop the activity in those service activities that were most affected during the epidemic. If we change the purpose now, then it is likely that some additional resources will have to be provided for this part of the service activity, where there will not be as much additional aid as was envisaged. And from that point of view, that doesn't seem rational to me. On the table is a proposal that the government will probably consider at the end of January when we know more precisely what these consequences are, that within this broader category, which we are now addressing, are mainly low-retirement pensioners, especially those who receive different social benefits, this is a category slightly above 60,000 of our fellow citizens, with special energy vouchers financed from funds where funds are targeted. This option is given within this set of possible measures by the European Commission and is on the table and will be used by the government if this situation continues as predicted. We think that this would be significantly more targeted than if the purpose of tourist vouchers changes because tourist vouchers have a dual purpose – to help people as well as activities that have been particularly affected. And that people can actually use these vouchers, the government has already extended the validity of this second edition, and for the first issue the proposal for renewal in the 10th anti-korona package is valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	So, I have a procedural proposal. Given that the topic is very important and topical, I propose that the National Assembly at one of the future meetings hold a debate on this subject with the aim of ensuring secure, reliable and affordable energy supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be asked by Ivan Hršak to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. The Honourable President of the Government. You have become President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 13 March 2020. As the mandate of this government is slowly expiring, the work of the government so far has been meaningfully assessed. As a representative of Desus and a member of the Desus Group, who primarily represents Slovenian pensioners, we would like to know from you: What measures, in the broadest sense, have been taken or implemented in the field of caring for the elderly? Here I am thinking mainly of the demands of Desus, which were recorded in the coalition contract, that is to say, those requirements that we explicitly wrote down and demanded. What can our dear pensioners and, in general, the generation of seniors expect in these few short months before the elections? I ask that you also evaluate the individual measures financially. I refer this oral question to you for the reason that our distinguished pensioners will hear it. We in Desus already know the answer to all the achievements and are extremely proud of them. Thank you very much for your concrete, comprehensive and financially valued response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. At this time, as mentioned last March, there has been a number of measures and decisions that have improved this situation in absolute terms compared to previous years. At the same time, we have also been mitigating, let's say, the djanjska difficulties that have arisen in this category of our relatives due to the epidemic. At that time, there was a threefold harmonisation of pensions, up to two regular, one at 3,2 %, the other at 2,5 %, and one at 2 %. A solidarity allowance was paid twice to pensioners, an annual allowance for pensioners last year and this year as well. The same is foreseen in these five classes for the following year. More than in ten years, investments in infrastructure for institutional protection of the elderly have been made. All calls for funding for the activities of pensioners and disabled persons have been made and, of course, the Long-Term Care Act has recently been adopted. What else can we expect in this mandate, or the end, of this and the following year? As I mentioned earlier, the 10th anti-korona package provides for the repayment of the solidarity allowance for pensioners, invalidity benefits, pension recipients in the financial effect of almost 80 million, in three categories, the number of recipients will be over 300 000. I repeat that we hope that the law will be adopted and enforced this year, so that people can get this money as soon as possible. The annual allowance for 2022 is also regulated in the Laws for the implementation of the budget for the next two years. Payment is foreseen in the five classes from 450 to 140 euros for the last class. The financial impact for next year is € 169 million. As regards the possible extraordinary reconciliation of pensions this month or the coming month, PPIZ-2 is envisaged at 3,5 %, but there is not yet a final decision on individual categories. Here the government has obtained data from STIZ, the Institute for Pensions and Disability Insurance, which has calculated quite accurately, in what percentages should a certain category of pensioners, depending on when they retired, raise this dose in order to actually equalize the situation of all. As you know, there is also the law of Member Horvat in the procedure, which the Government does not oppose, and it is true that there is support for the coalition. This proposal contains a lot of corrections for those categories of pensioners who have been on the page so far. This is a financial impact of around €15 million, which will primarily help those who have actually been somewhere on the edge, so-called forgotten categories of pensioners, which are close to 20,000. These are all measures that are still planned and together with the effects of the Long-term Care Act, which are strategic, and investments in the capacity of homes for older people – I can list locations – which are larger than in 15 years, the social situation, the welfare of this category will be significantly improved as a result of all measures in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. There are shocks on the energy market, we find this again every day, prices have gone wild, but experts say the worst is yet to come. We are in the middle of winter, and people are faced with enormous increases in electricity prices. The government, and we have also talked about this, of course, has several measures available – it could reduce VAT, it could get down even faster with excise duties, it could also ban those who are most at risk and cannot pay the bills in the middle of winter. Slovenia, according to official data in 2020, produces more than 92 per cent of the electricity required, so we are not really dependent on global gas prices. We're exporting a lot of electricity. The profession even says that the Government could temporarily restrict this export in order to, of course, stabilise prices and supply at home. However, as you yourself have said, the government has not done any of this, even though you, personally in October, have been vehemently declaring that the electricity consumption by Petrol is not justified. Of course you said that, but you did nothing. With regard to promotions by Petrol and other state-owned suppliers, you are now being led by the like directors. Talking about pensioners getting an allowance in PKP10 and now using it to pay the bills is ridiculous. Let's see what your government did at the time. The first public invitation to tender for the supply of hospital health homes with electricity, at which the lowest price was offered by GEN-I, you cancelled. On the second one that this company did not apply for, because it was more than obvious that it should not be selected, you chose Petrol. What is the final price of this second invitation to tender? I'll tell you. €3 million is higher, €3 million is now collected from the wallets of all Slovenian families, because we all contribute to health care. Three million. During this time you bent over the rise of Petrol prices by the media, and at the same time at least one Slovenian supplier made a public commitment not to raise prices by next summer. Of course, you traded directors both in the GEN-I and Maribor, where your director did first – what? Raised prices by 30 percent. Let me get this straight. Setting you up like directors is the only measure of this government associated with the crisis of these electricity prices and you're running it brutally, your client officials, the convicted tax laxative, probably someone else. Will you continue to do so until the end of your term, or do you care about how people live with these enormous irritations?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	I think that I have already said that the European Commission has recommended and that this is also in these latest documents for the European Council tomorrow, so that it does not interfere with the functioning of markets in non-market mechanisms. This has not been done by any European country, because neither can we, because we have some common regulation here. So the government doesn't have the tools to order concrete companies what the price of energy should be. Even if we wanted to, we can't do this and it's a meaningless question. As far as helping people is concerned, once again - The government has proposed to help people, among the first in Europe and with the widest targeting reaching over 300,000 socially weak people in Slovenia. Now, whether people get, I don't know, 300 euros from this or another address, when it's poured into the family budget, it's spent on what you need, and it's all demagogy. Similarly, demagogies are now abusing the question of lobbying for the benefit of politically appointed directors in previous mandates. I wouldn't comment on that either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Mr President, this is no abuse of the question. Each Member shall be free to ask his question of the Member of Parliament, and thus shall we act in this Assembly of State and shall also be free in the future. Fellow Janja Servant, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Yes, you have nothing more than obviously to show and have nothing to answer, you have actually answered the predecessors and that is why this question bothers you. The fact is, the government has done nothing so far. The fact that she suggested that she would do something next year, but nothing has happened so far, means she hasn't done anything. What you're doing, I said, you're changing directors, those who then raise electricity prices. It's gonna hurt people. Now you're vindicating that you're going to give them some supplements that they're going to spend on what's absurd. We haven't heard a word about a small economy. And, of course, it is not true, other countries have long since acted. What you're saying isn't true at all. For the kind of business that you're doing now, with your brutal recruitment, the withdrawal of those who want to do good for people, with three additional millions, as much as we're going to cost us energy in health, there's one graphic term that I'm not going to use right now, so you won't tell me that I'm offensive. But I can conclude, of course, that you did exactly the same in the energy crisis as in the epidemic. You ignored professionally, instead of solving problems, you allowed your supporters enormous profits. So once again, I ask you: Will you take responsibility for these decisions and for all the damage you have done to people and at least justify yourself to the people you have brought to poverty?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	In response to the first question, I said that the prices of oil derivatives, natural gas, energy, October 2019, when you were strong in the government, and higher than today, you did not accept any expensive supplements, wages and pensions were at least 10% lower than today, the prosperity was lower. You didn't take any expensive supplements, no one worried about how the bills were going to be paid. So please, if it stops with this demagogy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Janja Servant, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for the third time you've actually confirmed that you've done nothing. Looking back, pointing your finger at others, what someone else did and not answering the question what you're going to do, is very convenient. That is why, of course, I propose that public debate be held on this non-response also because this National Assembly is continuing on Friday with the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where we are also discussing this brutal recruitment of you, but you did not attend those meetings, and it would be right to do so, as well as any other minister of yours. Therefore, of course, I suggest that we sit on this subject and talk about it, and we will see what you really have done or what you have not done.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Next question will be asked by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! This is my last question to you in this mandate and it is fair to our people – of course we are not afraid – to make an inventory of what we have actually done in this mandate, in these good 20 months, and to put down accounts. The fact is that the government was working on the implementation of the coalition treaty, which we signed on February 25th last year, when we actually didn't know exactly how the deadly virus would strike. That is why the Government invested a lot of energy, of course the National Assembly, in controlling the epidemic, helping people and the economy. Thank God we were effective here, which shows record economic growth, record low unemployment, good country ratings and so on. The third segment on which the Government was active is likely to be the time for analysis and is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Mr President, New Slovenia is participating in this government because it wants to change things for the better. That's what we can say for the most part worked. New Slovenia wants to create Slovenia's opportunities and economic success. In the Coalition Treaty, we have inter alia committed ourselves to a balance between the social state and the market economy. In particular, I would like to point out the scope of preventing the abuse of social transfers – we all know that this is happening and that there are large amounts. Anyone who really needs help must be able to provide an effective security network. That's why, Mr. President, I'm interested: What achievements do you think are most important these months? Where do you see opportunities to improve the situation in Slovenia by the end of this government's mandate?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We are still dealing with the epidemic until the end of the term of office. The epidemic or pandemic also marked the second part of this mandate, in which we formed the executive power on the basis of a new coalition that took over the mandate last March. Nevertheless, in addition to the ten anti-Korona packages, this government has submitted to the National Assembly a series of system laws that are basically improving the situation of people in this country. One has already been mentioned, this is the Long-Terms Act, which was adopted and for which funding is already provided in budgets by 2025, in the plans, so they are overly concerned. In the future, resources must also be provided under the Demographic Fund Act, which is also on the parliamentary benches, and let us hope that it will be adopted by the end of the mandate. In this way, the living work of people, which is now additionally burdened by the contributions we are collecting from living work in one way or another, will become a major burden in the future, so that the pension fund is a whole and can meet its obligations. Above all, we expect that the measures that we have set up to a large extent in this short term will continue to maintain high economic growth, on the basis of which many people or virtually everyone who wants to work in Slovenia will be given a job. At this point, we have the highest employment in the history of this country. Never have so many people worked in Slovenia. This means that never before have so many people been able to provide for the welfare of themselves and their families. Never before have so many people paid pension contributions, health contributions, VAT on spending, various other benefits that only those who created something out of their own money can pay. This also increases investment. And since the investments are greater, the general well-being can also be increased. Never before have the Slovenian municipalities had as much money from raising the averages as they had in last year's year as they have in this year and as they will have in the coming year. This government of the Slovenian municipality considers it serious as a factor of development, not as a need for additional cash consumption. Everyone who lives in Slovenia lives in a municipality. Slovenia consists of 212 municipalities. If these congregations are financially fed, this affects the welfare of the people. If these congregations are financially well placed, they certainly invest more productively because they invest closer to people. And this is one such strategic approach, which has substantially changed the relationship between the state level and local self-government over the past two years, and which specifically reflects if you go after Slovenia now. This government has visited nine more regions in this mandate, more than the previous two governments in all their mandates. You can see this progress that actually serves people. And with the resources we have provided in the budget for the following year and with the resources we have provided from various European sources, all that money has not been available so far will be invested in the next two years, even though there has been a lot of this money, and this has been spent on the things that went on to tens of millions, hundreds of millions of euros, and today no one in this Chamber or in the general Slovenian public can list any achievements of those who have received this money. It is easy to be honest and ultimately it is reflected in macroeconomic data that are currently at historical level in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you're requesting a supplemental response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For these answers, of course, 5 minutes is not enough to do one comprehensive analysis. However, I think it is still necessary to add tax revenues to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which virtually exceeded the annual plan by the end of November. I will touch on the third area of the government, this is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Of course, it's not finished yet, it's in the finish line. Mr President, we, on the left hand side of political competition, are listening and it is obvious to the government that the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is being seized of the files. And we are now reading the European Commission's and European Commissioners' tweets, where they are also flying by the Socialists to praise the Slovenian Presidency. They speak of Slovenian ministers as achievements. Let me just mention one thing: one achievement: the Employment and Social Policy Council reached an agreement on a proposal for a directive on appropriate minimum wages at Miklavjevo this year. The aim of the Directive is to ensure a fair working situation in the European Union. My question, Mr President, is briefly: How do you assess the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union so far?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	There are 27 Member States in the European Union. They're very big, very small, medium. Slovenia does not belong to any of these extreme categories, but we are a good 2 million, which means as much as it has, say, Germany or France administration. And when it comes to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Slovenia has essentially to do the same work as Germany or France or any other country, which means that we need to devote more energy to this percentage, more energy. And in the end, of course, some achievements can be summed up very meritocratically. And if so far you are counting all those chapters that we have closed since the beginning of July this year, and we still have a few weeks until the end, then you can see that we have closed several files, such as Germany during its presidency, by weight. This is not exactly comparable because some things have been happening for a long time, we are also in the common trio of Germany-Portugal-Slovenia. Despite the ongoing epidemic, we have decided that most of these key activities will be carried out live, not via audio-video conferences. As a result, many things have come to our table that have been waiting, some justifiable, and some also because the pandemic was a convenient excuse, and this has shifted to the future Presidency. When we look at the hooks under the files, they are very large, more than in some of the countries that have presided before us. Not all records are the same weight, but some achievements are such that no one expected them. So, given that you quoted a statement that Slovenia is taking the file – Slovenia was added to the file. No one took it, we got a lot of extras on the table, and we saved a lot of extras. And this is in a difficult situation where Europe is not just dealing with an epidemic, when we now have this pressure of prices when we have certain uncertainties, including as regards the future movement of the epidemic. Today, by the way, Slovenia has also joined the list of countries since we discovered a cluster of omicrons in Ljubljana, according to this new variant of the virus, which is already very widespread in some European countries. We are successful in difficult circumstances, and we wish that we were all happy, not that some are sad and concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, which is Wednesday, 15. 12. When the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on all the proposed decisions on this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is for discussion on the reply of the President of the Janezan government to Dr. Matthew T. Wattov's question regarding corruption and mafia governance with the State. At its 27th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response submitted by Prime Minister Janez Janša to Dr Mate T. Vatovec's question on corruption and mafia governance with the country. I give the floor to Dr Matthew T. Vatov to further explain the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! My question at the previous meeting was very simple. Why does the Prime Minister, when he is in the opposition, represent himself as one who will clean up corruption in this country once he is in power, when it comes to practice, when it comes to presiding over the government, in fact, the story turns and we have in a few years or months of corruption and similar affairs for a decade? I didn't get an answer to that question. I received some quotations or a summary of the book by Rad Pezdir. I see that the President of the Government today has it, like several other SDS Members. I hope it's not an advertising block for this book today. I just got these imaginary stories about some fortune tellers and stuff. I hope that in the 21st century, young people will no longer be heard of the udbomafs, but of the real problems of people. What I wanted to point out with this question, the way I put it, is whether in this country, every time SDS is in power, there's an association that doesn't take the state as something that needs to serve everyone, but as some kind of own feud that needs to be used up to the last bit. One of the main things or more of such things that indicate that this is the way it is organised and how it works. The first thing, perhaps the crown of everything, is usually, even in Mafia literature and in Mafia films, so-called consiglieres, is said to be the advisor of the chief boss, who is Rok Snezič in our case. The term Snezič, which the President of the Government likes to deny every time he is in this Chamber. I think that about two weeks ago, when the freighters came to him because he lost his claim against my colleague Mih Kordish, he repeated that he was a friend of the Prime Minister. The situation is very simple, whether Rok Snezič is lying, who wants the recognition of the Prime Minister of the Government, or whether he is lying to the President of the Government, who denies this friendship. In both cases, it's not the most beautiful thing. What is more worrying, however, are the many questionable affairs which are, of course, linked to the fact that everything revolves around the SDS network, the party chaired by the current Prime Minister of the Government. If I only propose the affairs that have taken place at this time, from Tonin's lost masks, and in particular the acquisition of quick tests by Kryptonyramidash, whose boss is Luka Lah, a person closely associated with the SDS client, who was primarily one of the main players of the Snegec affair, the cocaine affair of the SDS offspring, and in particular the respirators who, during the pandemic, also began to be supplied by the company of the President of the Government's brother, who had previously not dealt with the supply of protective equipment, and, finally, as a garlic on the cake, of course, could not even the arms affair. In this government's mandate, we have received a law that will throw more than three quarters of a billion euros into weapons, and it is already indicated that this will be the amount that will grow. In just a few months, the purchase of boxers grew from 207 million on the road 250, 300 to today's 412. Finally, I will mention the "stupid taxes" affair. Minister Vizjak, currently Minister of the Environment, was Minister of Economy in the first Janšev government. What reminded us of this "stupid tax" affair is, above all, that it is the way of any government led by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The problem of the "stupid taxes" affair and what we can remember is the connection between Petan and Visian or SDS, if you want. If you remember that first government, it was the DZS, led by Petan, that helped to purchase some of the shells of companies in Luxembourg and then through the same brother of the Prime Minister, that funds were channelled back to Slovenia and this cycle of money laundering and similar things was spinning. These are basically the basic mechanisms of mafia methods, the basic mechanisms of corrupt methods. Most of them are obsolete, perhaps because they know in this party and their ministers well the third intimate part of the judges who can take over the police and all the investigative authorities in this country and thus make sure that everything goes under the carpet and their members stick very tightly to the bulwarks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Janša for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Two days from now, the European Council and there is a lot of work, and we have concluded our coordination with today's General Affairs Council this morning. In the absence of the obvious that someone will not then reveal to me that we are putting on the agenda the topic of mafia governance with the country and that we have to say that you are the one who requested this debate and that you do not want to cooperate here. And if you've already given this subject, there's much to be said about this subject, much more than what you've read here. Because what you read here is more lies and insinuations than sentences. None of this holds. In fact, you've made these things up more or less, or you've made them up to avoid discussing the actual backgrounds that are criminal in this country. In addition to what you have listed, this is all that has been missing, that I would be blamed for any unsigned diploma of supreme judges and so on, because after many weeks of questioning, there are still no simple answers to who in the independent judicial branch of power is shaping our destiny. We will be happy to continue to serve you, not with insinuations, but with a very concrete description of mafia governance with a country which unfortunately has deep roots in Slovenia and which still represents one of the main problems of Slovenian people, which makes salaries and pensions significantly lower than they could be because it still steals too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, the esteemed choir! The fight against clientism, corruption, economic and financial crime cannot be won through populist, pre-criminal convictions of people, but through consistent advocacy and strengthening of the rule of law, through such a system of legislation and control as far as possible, which will prevent abuses both in the economy and in public administration and in other areas. Anyone who commits a crime or other illegality must be treated equally and effectively. At the same time, both in the media and in social perception, everyone must be found innocent until his guilt is established by a judicial judgment. The basic tools for this task are: effective criminal procedure, the active role of detection and prosecution authorities, procedural discipline, the conduct of legal proceedings without delay, repetition of individual acts, the repeal of decisions and the consistent enforcement of penalties and other sanctions. Unfortunately, Slovenia is still lagging behind in this area. We have quite a few resounding cases where millions and millions of euros have been lost and there are no culprits. And it shows poorly that the guilty will be targeted, let alone brought before the courts, if the guilty are found and convicted. A criminal investigation found that TES 6 was overpaid for half a billion euros. Today, when we talk about green breakthroughs and carbon footprints, we still carry the luggage of an overpaid thermal power plant and its red numbers. According to some estimates, TES is expected to raise €870 million by 2030. A dirty energy project that has no future for our country has been overpaid for half a billion years and will create a loss until the closing of the thermal power plant itself. But the story is without epilogues. A crime with no perpetrators. Not for the first time in our Slovenian history. When we talk about a mafia country, no one can forget about a 5 billion deep bank hole. Five billion. What is the society where we have the culprits for the billions of bank holes that walk freely across the country, but there is no sanction for their conduct, as the law enforcement authorities could not enforce them. Unfortunately, the state's conduct in the event of a bank hole is a poor journey for the further development of the country. And from the European Court of Human Rights, we are still getting signals that this story is not yet concluded. Taxpayers have the sword of Damokle, which weighs 960 million euros, which may have to be paid to the deleted owners of subordinated securities. If we add all late interest to this, the final amount could increase to approximately the price that the taxpayers had to pay for the project TEŠ 6 or more than the cost of building the highway section Postojna - Jelšana. Let us not forget, for example, that almost EUR 800 million of Iranian money has been washed over NLB. Again, a crime without perpetrators. Not for the first time in our Slovenian history. Rado Pezdir said about this: “The fragnant collapse of institutions in handling this problem, silence and billions of dollars. All of this constitutes the biggest financial scandal in the history of the country." Undoubtedly. In the Group of Members, we have mentioned only a few large cases where we are looking for traces of the mafia's way of action. In all cases, these are huge amounts, which also have a huge impact on the functioning of the country. It is interesting that under this government there are suddenly so many resources that we can devote to citizens and the economy. Funds are available for municipalities and their citizens, for pensioners, for tourism industry, for homes for the elderly, for schools and kindergartens, for roads and railways, for soldiers and for health care. We wonder how there hasn't been any money for all of this in recent years. Where was the money going, and what do Slovenians have from soft projects in the past? Despite the investments, let us not forget that Slovenia owed much less than the average European Union country during our coalition, but we have been able to provide funds for all of these purposes. This raises the question of whether the major evidence of the country's mafia activity comes from the right side of the political space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today's debate on corruption and alleged mafia governance with the country is an opportunity for us to finally look the truth in the eye and highlight the essence. To also define the term udbomafia, which represents only fiction for the applicant. He's so wrong. Therefore, we must first highlight the economic origins of our independent country. On the functioning of parallel mechanisms, sparrows were already lurking on the roof until Rado Pezdir undertook systematic research into the very obvious adverse phenomena of our economic history. In Slovenia alone, it started with the first non-transparent privatisation procedures, which can be called the initial capital accumulation. Remember the owner's certificates and the pydovian tycoons. This was linked to the process of gradually establishing a privileged layer, the so-called transition left. For him, however, political or decision-making power was crucial, allowing for the adoption of the right legal system decisions, whose authors were, of course, specifically selected lawyers. The established economic power was the one that then opened the door to all social sub-systems, including the media. The circle was so concluded and so established a system of action can also be named parastata or a deep state. The paradox, however, is that its design comes from even the days of a former group of countries and is – proven on the documents – justified, paradoxical, on the very criminal smuggling grounds. And that's why, for example, the power in the state's New Ljubljana Bank was unpunished to wash a billion dollars through all the supervisory institutions. Therefore, several years later, there were no appropriate criminal sanctions to cause the so-called bank hole. It is not too much to add that such events do not contribute to confidence in our judicial system, which unfortunately conceals its scrupulousness and inviolability under the cover of constitutionally protected independence. But let me get back to the economic structures. An important part of economic capacity is still partly owned by the State directly or indirectly. During the thirties, untransparent, almost incestuous ownership and business connections of state-owned enterprises, which thus do not allow the owner, the State, to manage their assets in an optimal manner. One such highly up-to-date example in energy is the Group of Genes. Surveillance is very difficult and financial exhaustion through various implementation contracts, such as cleaning, PR, IT, advisory and legal services, is therefore easier. All of this makes us increasingly lagging behind in the global competitive fight, because our development potential has unfortunately focused on wrong priorities, maintaining and increasing privileges and not on healthy growth and development. That is also why the last financial crisis has affected our economy relatively much more than our global competitors. Unfortunately, there was also a clumsyly executed and expensive bank recovery of another stone in the mosaic of economic power redistribution and the reselling of bad claims also for some new recruits. From a ten - year distance, therefore, it is now possible to understand why the then second Janša government, which set up the bank recovery, had to fall. In order to be able to perform recovery, those who, in the background, have offered themselves opportunities for good business and may even have caused this bank hole by irresponsible lending themselves. Nevertheless, there is no lack of vision and courage within this government's mandate, to shudder at this, so far almost untouchable parallel of a system that operates only in the background and in favour of precisely defined spheres of interest. Therefore, it is understandable, of course, that the current opposition wants to return to power in every way, because it has created levers of economic and other power in the last two years slowly but confidently crawled out of their hands. Moreover, it even points to an attempt to pick up a similar tactic from the outbreak of the epidemic in 2012. On the street, an alleged spontaneous demonstration against the new government, and instead of the KPK, the Court of Auditors is expected to write a most burdensome report on the acquisition of medical protective equipment. It is therefore no wonder that the opposition opposed all anti-Korona measures. The epidemic and its public health were used or abused as a means of political struggle to return to power, even at the cost of lost lives. The modern centre has been an integral part of such or other coalitions, government coalitions since its establishment. We can say that we had the opportunity to participate in coalitions with different priorities and foregleams, and we had different roles in them. In these different roles, we have also felt on our own the affection or disfavor of all social sub-systems, the public, the media and non-governmental organizations. In particular, the role of the media should be to keep a close eye on the functioning of public institutions and related exposed individuals. We have not previously questioned the autonomy of the media, but in recent times we have found that, due to the involvement of various interests, such as capital-business connections, also through the purchases of ad space, their work is not as autonomous as we initially imagined. In our belief, the media should first and foremost follow the principles of objectivity, truthfulness and not, under the pretext of editorial and journalistic autonomy, defend existing capital ownership, financial, business, human rights and political ties, i.e. the wider society's harmful status quo. In this light, let me also stop at that part of the question of the delegation, which again burdens Minister Pozvalska. The so-called story of the supply of protective equipment was our first real experience with a completely unfounded and unjustifiable media lynch. In doing so, a large part of the public is excited to see that virtually the entire duration of the epidemic has been slow, but the report and documents, which increasingly show a picture of the good functioning of government institutions and justify the conduct of Minister Počvalška in one of the most difficult periods in the history of Slovenia. The Minister has also set out his name for an effective search for assistance, which political opponents, with the help of the media, have tried to destroy completely. In the eyes of some, they may even have succeeded. In our eyes, however, there remains a minister who has prevented a much worse scenario in the most difficult times. It is not important for the media, however, that our economy, compared to others, has experienced a long period of epidemics. All of these are practices that, despite the warnings of our current coalition partners, we ourselves have had to get used to. Over the past two years, we have known and felt the mechanisms of action of a deep country on our own. It is therefore more clear to us today than ever that all those who expose and endanger parallel mechanisms and established privileges are given similar unjustifiable rocking. In recent months, we have also been witnessing to many people in the case of Minister Viszak, from an extremely biased public interpretation of a law where populisms had significantly greater weight than legal content, to the disclosure of 14-year-old informal and illegally obtained recordings of private conversations. But this affair has actually solved something else. These are inadmissible business practices and the services of various capital schemes, with which state-owned companies in the past have been inexorably exhausted. In this way the potential of the Slovenian economy, including the Slovenian tourism industry, has been greatly weakened. On the other hand, through ownership of some important media, media landscapes have been shaped and influenced or shaped by people’s opinions. But despite such obvious manipulations, colleagues in the opposition feel that this government coalition is the central source of corruption and affairs in our country. It's nothing more than a deliberate diversion of attention in a way that a thief with a finger points to another and yells, get a thief. We are convinced that in the time of this government, disputed practices and the resulting privileges are diminishing, and that there are so many larger magnifying glass through which the situation is observed and is also deliberately blurred, and a speaker through whom false accusations are answered. Regrettably, however, the arguments generally remain outside the field of vision and hearing. As it is said, today's debate on the parliamentary issue of the opposition fellow from the Left on corruption and mafia governance with the country is very welcome. It allows us to draw attention to too many disputed past practices, as well as to the lightness with which some in the opposition gave up the sparrow in hand to get a pigeon on the roof, that is to say, more influence and power. You have to deal with this on your own in the so-called KUL coalition. And since the math hasn't worked out, it's been all wrong for almost two years. We are marked as traitors and our internal political arguments and deceptions about the endangered democracy and the rule of law are exported abroad. Ever since the gun was thrown into the corn, the work of all those who have been truly trying to shoulder their responsibilities has been defiled in every way. And the figures show that the government coalition, despite all the opposition poles under its feet, is successful, that Slovenia is well flowing through the economic and health storm. And numbers don't lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	Your Honor! Events in the country in a good year and a half strengthen the feeling that the current authority is increasingly self-sufficient and courageous. Not only does it show the primacy of autocracy, but it follows almost the mafia's past the law. But worse still, it also changes these receptions if necessary. So let me just give you a few obvious cases that are affecting the current government's mafia manoeuvres. These are potential energy damage, the blockade of improving public health procurement and the unfair payment of coronary supplements. Let's do it in one order at a time. In the SAB Group, with the support of the opposition's work in the past year, we have convened several urgent meetings of the Commission for the supervision of public finances on the subject of various affairs. These have been swimming on the surface for a week. Last Monday, we opened a debate at an urgent session of the Commission on recent political recruitment and energy machinations. We estimate that those involved in the conduct should immediately assume political responsibility, with confirmed speculations about the alleged destruction of Gen-I, as well as personal compensation. Events in the tops of Slovenian energy are unacceptable, despite the fact that staff exchanges are carried out to a certain extent under the so-called every government. But how? As with many other things, the existing authority in this area is reaching new milestones and is going in a totally incomprehensible dimension. The speed and uncompromisingness of the government of John Janša’s staff clearance and the overheating of energy are more than worrying. It is unacceptable that the current government has left such a successful and important company as Gen-I without leadership. This is irresponsible and harmful to state property, and we have a reasonable feeling that it wants to destroy it. And this is the same company that has drawn up a plan for the emergency decarbonisation of Slovenia and has taken over the government's role in this segment. The authorities therefore left the company without guidance, which provided customers with the cheapest electricity and the best service. Doing good for people is obviously very wrong. Let's move on. Acquisition of protective equipment during the covida-19 epidemic. Thus, it was not only about saving lives that the current government likes to interpret it, but rather about war profit. In procurement procedures, the implementation of public procurement has moved away from the principles of transparent management of procedures, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers. Taxpayers' money must be treated transparently, effectively and in the spirit of a good master at all times, and in this story public money was no longer under control. He wasn't. What were you doing? Now there are no more secrets about family and friendly purchasing connections, purchases of excessive fan numbers, paper masks without adequate quality and type of opacity in procedures. The assessment of equipment needs was largely unorganised, non-systematic and uneven. In addition, entities that did not have the appropriate basis for assessing the needs were involved. On the shoulders of the taxpayers, some apparently filled their own pockets, while ministers were well aware of the role of procurement and logistics referees. Let us not forget the payment of the crown allowances. In the SAB Group, we have also submitted a request in mid-year for an urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, at which we opened a debate on the unfair and unfair payment of the crown allowances for healthcare workers and DSOs to employees by ministries. Our goal was to verify and determine why payments were made in such great differences and differences. We have proposed that all who are equally threatened by the virus at work receive the same amount of supplement. We spent about half a billion euros in one year to pay our work allowances during the epidemic, I repeat, half a billion euros. Helping people at the time of the epidemic was urgent and welcome, but it is unacceptable for us to accept that the Coronal Supplements were paid in the way they were. It is extremely unfair that doctors received a few thousand euro supplement and a record among them eight thousand euros a month. On the other hand, employees in older citizens' homes received 1.4 euros of gross allowance per hour, amounting to about 250 euros in one month of 180 hours of work. We were shocked at the Sab Party when we received the government's reply to the written question about the payment of the crown allowances by the cabinets of the ministries. We were appalled to see that last December's cabinet of the Minister of Defence received a good thousand 500 euros of allowances per month and employed in the cabinet of the Minister of Interior last April for a good thousand and 150 euros of allowances per month. These two recorders came out clearly from the data collected. We are confident that such differences have been made due to the payment of allowances in percentages and not to the nominal amount as regulated in some other countries. Coronary allowances in the public sector have also been paid in very disproportionate amounts in relation to the economy. After all of this, we can conclude that this government has been shot down by corruption and is operating with mafia revenues, which shows up to a small affair. Modus operand Prime Minister of the Government is the State this is me, but this is only for the sake of the well-being and strengthening of its own electoral base and the partisan interests of the SDS party. After leaving, the government will leave the destruction especially in public finances, and our values and social morality are seriously conceived, and there is no confidence in politics. We're wondering how to stay Prime Minister at all when most are against you. The domestic social structure typical of Slovenia and the support of a sufficient number of seemingly independent right-wing parties is clearly the right recipe for survival, for self-survival and survival of members of their home-grown alias of co-thinkers and SDS supporters. It's sad, but that's how it is. We must wait until April 24th for Slovenia to be the most important elections in the last 15 years. 131 more days, and Slovenia will – hopefully – again take the path of a normal and democratically functioning country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	My colleague Tašner Vatovec asked the Prime Minister last month how it is possible that he, who represents himself and paints the image of a patriot and a fighter against corruption, does so every time he takes office in a few years for decades or more of a corrupt affair. It is an excellent starting point for today's debate, even though it is in the opinion of the President of the Government that the deep state, the one left, is responsible for which our country is supposed to be full of parallel mechanisms, mafias and corruption, as it says. Let's see. When we talk about corruption, many in Slovenia still take it very literally as paying bribes to someone to provide material or intangible benefits. But in this year, if nothing else, it has been clear that this government, led by the largest government party, is transferring corruption to all times of the system. And it's not about corrupting averages or amateurs who don't always need money, it's about corrupting a professional. Or if I make it a little bit different: Hand washes hand. Let me first remind you of some of the typical actions of this government, the largest government parties and coalitions we have witnessed in the last year. The Minister of this Government shall agree with the tycoon and promise him a servile supervisory council and the possibility of taking over other state-owned companies if they agree, of course. Meanwhile, a party in the media is declaring the fight against tai tai tycoons. The President of the party meets with suppliers in health care and their lobbyists on exotic sites, in front of the Slovenian public of hidden locations, while his MP in the National Assembly declares the fight against corruption in health. The government is sacrificing a minister who advocated a legal procedure for the selection of European prosecutors because they were elected prosecutors who did not like the President of the Government. Then the new minister is working hard to discredit the selection process at least if it can't be eliminated. This is followed by an attempt to amend the legislation by which the government would, of course, have the main word in appointing prosecutors and by which it would regulate things a little in retrospect. Not naming a number of state prosecutors in Slovenia, and thus weakening the prosecution of crimes, the public has almost forgotten all the affairs of this government. To the personal lawyer of the President, the largest government party is to the mercy and mercy of the state-owned property, the general secretaries of the parties and the tax collectors, and the latest developments in energy companies are just another step in looting the property of the citizens of Slovenia. Let's move on. Orban's oligarchs pay millions of euros for advertisements in the media by the largest government party in the Slovenian media. This government, however, invites Hungarian capital to build a second track, even though the financial structure of the investment has already been completed without it. In the midst of the biggest health and other crisis on social networks, let us look at the happy boys who are bragging about the good work they have done with this government. And in the epidemic, the government bought masks from serviettes and inadequate tests, and the profits of friendly entrepreneurs were enormous. About how the government speculated over the acquisition of cheaper AstraZeneca vaccines during the same period, and at the expense of human health, I'd rather not lose my words at the expense of the additional orders of Pfizer's vaccine. But all I've listed is the tip of the iceberg. In the case of systemic corruption and the way this government and the government coalition rule, this is something completely different. I believe that many people have already become tired of the constant repetition of stories from the government and the discovery of new and new corruption stories that appear almost every week. It is no longer easy for us to repeat all these repulsive acts that they afford. No other government and no other coalition would politically survive any of these scandals that it has enjoyed in the past year. Then what is their goal? If we pay attention to their communication on social networks and in the media, they do not try too hard to wash their names before the public. In fact, they can be said to devote themselves only to strengthening the situation among their believers. They are confident that they will not change their electoral preferences even in the upcoming elections. The aim of this government and this coalition is therefore not to be trusted by most voters, the aim of this government and this coalition is to prevent voters from trusting anyone else, not politicians, not professions, not independent state control institutions and law enforcement agencies, but even less independent media. The goal of this government and this coalition is to take in people the idea that in politics we are all the same, all corrupt as they were at that time. They are probably thinking that in this case, many would choose to stay in the elections at home. And then, with their low participation in their small support army, we could continue to rule. The hand can do it. They're wrong. We're not all the same. The elections are approaching, so they rush, rush with the politicization of the police, rush to weaken the law enforcement and judicial branches of power, or call them the people they like. They are hurrying by looting state-owned enterprises and by the economic exhaustion of media that they are unwilling to or are not yet reporting under their dictatorship. Perhaps we can speculate and suggest another attempt by this government and this coalition to make it difficult for voters and voters to participate in the upcoming elections. But, dear colleagues, they're not going to make it. The fact is that people in Slovenia still know how to separate grains from weeds, at least a large majority of them, and this will also show elections in a few months. Until then, we will continue to draw attention to any incompetence that this government and this coalition have afforded. It would be really good, therefore, for the Prime Minister to answer today the question of Member Tashner Vatovac, whether it is really time to let this country breathe again. And when we are breathing, I guess I'm not too optimistic if I think that Slovenia, on the corruption perception index from the 35th place in 2020, would have improved its classification by at least half only with this Prime Minister's resignation. And then after two years, she took a deep breath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	Dear President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! Today there will obviously be a very interesting debate in the National Assembly on corruption and mafia governance. The panellist is a member of the far left, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, and the chief defendant, in the notes, is the President of the Government, Janez Janša. The proposal actually needs to be congratulated on the topic of the debate of Members, because corruption and the mafia governance of the country are a real problem for us – especially under the left governments, of which Levica was also a participant. Of course, the defendant is the wrong person at the moment. Some facts. The Mafia has been monitoring some of our country's activities since all its creation. Even before its creation, the left political forces tried not to create it at all. The Mafia doing of our left political scene first appeared just before and after the performance of Demos' government led by Loizet Peterlet, when the then president of the presidency of Milan Kučan calmly allowed mass disarmament of the Territorial Defence, the predecessor of the Slovenian Army. However, when the people decided at a referendum with a plebiscite majority that they wanted their country, the mafia's work of left-wing political forces continued. In the then congregation, today’s National Assembly, the left political forces hindered the emergence of a new state to the point of disability, such as by preventing the adoption of a defence budget. Joze Mencinger, the on-call commentator in the dominant media today, convinced us that we would eat grass if we gained our independence. Some MEPs, say, Aurelio Juri from Kopra, even boycotted the festive declaration of Slovenia's independence and preferred to look at the sea, as he said when asked why he would not be at the festive declaration of Slovenia's independence. Such and similar cases of mob behavior on our left were all the political medium you want. However, when the independent state of Slovenia was irrevocably reached, the left political forces resorted to literally Mafia stories, such as those of the so-called arms trade which they held alive until 2008, although the judiciary had already decided in 1996 that there were no crimes in this case. In fact, the left political forces themselves traded weapons. Just remember in 1994 and found large quantities of weapons at Maribor airport. The Patria affair could also be referred to as literally mob activity. The Left Political Forces launched it into our political orbit in 2008 just before the elections and kept it alive until 2015, when the Constitutional Court unanimously decided that Janša, Krković and Crnkovich had been tried for acts that were not crimes at all. But even today, in the National Assembly, you will hear some proud successor to the Communist Union, who will be involved in the arms trade and the Patria case, even though they have long been concluded. Quite typical mafia work is also billions of dollars or more of dirty Iranian money washed through the New Ljubljana Bank for financing terrorism around the world. Clearly, this happened during the time of the left government. It is unusual, however, that the Slovenian police and prosecutorial system still does not see the crime in this regard. The two parliamentary investigative commissions in 2014-2018 have clearly confirmed during their work that in the event of an alleged laundering of Iranian money in Nova Ljubljanska banka there was a violation of the legislation in force and that there was an abuse of the situation. This is reflected in a number of documents and published reports on the work of the investigative commissions. As the Commission of Inquiry found on the identification of alleged money laundering and terrorist financing and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the alleged money laundering in Nova KBM, the Bank of Ljubljana was responsible for the so-called Iranian scheme, which was directly in the hands of the Iranian State. Let us not forget, too, the mafia work of left-wing political forces, which in 2013 also accounted for more than €5 billion in private banks. Today, however, it is reported to this government that it owed the country several billion euros of money and distributed the money to people, which it does, but all other countries have done. However, we cannot attribute Mafia behaviour only to left political forces, but also to their satellites, such as some NGOs, the judiciary and the bulk of journalism and most trade unions. The judiciary, which hides behind independence, makes cardinal mistakes and protects itself. Only they know how to lose thousands of wills, resulting in thousands of injured heirs. Only they know how it is possible that there are a maximum of 100,000 inhabitants and spend almost the most money on one judge, but at the same time we have the most backlog, and we are the country that loses the most lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights. Mafia is also the behaviour of a number of NGOs, of which people have nothing, and they themselves are particularly fueled by state money. Not to talk about journalism. The bulk of our media is privately owned. Some media owners have already been convicted by law, but their media are particularly in the service of left-wing political forces, while at the same time shouting across Europe how the current government is suppressing them. Mafia is also the behavior of some unions. When the current government wants to amend tax legislation that would make everyone pay higher wages, they're against it. Understand who can. The Mafia governance of the country is best described by Dr. Rado Pezdir in his book Parallel Deep Country Mechanisms, in which he reveals all the mafia activities of the former Yugoslavia, as well as the period after 1990 until today, when the mafia methods of the left political underground and their supporters remain virtually the same as they were in the old South. However, since the proposer of the meeting of the National Assembly, Dr Matthew Tashner Vatovec, of course, is referring to alleged mafia governance with the country during the current government, it must be confronted with the reality of some actual data. Over the past 10 years, not one single home has been built for the elderly. Today they are being built or already provided for dozens of homes for the elderly or for their modernisation and expansion. Left governments, however, spent tens of millions of euros on studies in this area alone. The Long-Terms Act has also been written by left governments for more than 10 years. A few days ago, the current government, with close political support in the National Assembly, only brought him to reality, despite the mafia's insistence on left-wing political forces in the National Assembly. The current government has seriously reversed the trend of falling military funds and adopted legislation on investment in the Slovenian Army, similar to health care, where long-term funding will be provided, not to mention education, where funds are also provided for investment in education and sport. To conclude, let us look at some more numbers that speak for themselves. All data refer to 2019, when we had the so-called Charles KUL coalition with the Supercoal Party of the Left, of which Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec is also a member, and the comparison to 2021, when he is in the power of the current government of Janševa. Education and sport funds KUL Coalition of Billion 86 in 2019, the current government of 2 billion 200. Unemployment during the KUL coalition 7.4%, at the time of the current government 3.9%. Minimum pension for 40 years of work during the KUL coalition 2019 530 €, now 620 €. Average pension at the time of the 2019 KUL Coalition €661, now at the time of the Janša government €730. Gross social product 2019 2,7 %, now 7,4 %. Only budget resources for health during KUL 198 million euros, now 348 million euros. Investments in transport infrastructure at the time of the KUL Coalition 0.9 billion, now 1.2 billion euros. Minimum pension base 2019 858 EUR, now 947 EUR. Average for municipalities during the KUL Coalition 2019 573, now EUR 645. R & D funds during the KUL Coalition 2019 892 million, now €7 million. With such and other information, of course, everything is clear. The third Janšev government is much more successful in all areas than the Sharčev KUL government with the super-coalic Levican. Pensions are growing, wages are growing, we are investing more in education, science, sport, health care, infrastructure, and the Slovenian Army, and we could even list them. At the same time, we have one of the lowest unemployment rates and one of the highest rates of gross social product growth. Foreign credit rating houses give us extremely high ratings, which also makes credits with zero interest or even a negative interest rate. So the difference is more than obvious. I would therefore like to point out the proposal for a meeting of the National Assembly on corruption and mafia governance with the country to ask who he was referring to. If he was referring to the left political forces of their government, he was certainly right. But if he still doesn't understand things, I recommend that he read Dr. Rad Pezdir's above mentioned book. Maybe he'll understand he's on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, Members and Members of Parliament, I address you on one hand with great concern and on the other with pleasure. Concerned that it is obvious, otherwise I cannot explain it, that most in this National Assembly, in the work of the President of the Government, have nevertheless recognized corruption and mafia methods, and I am pleased that most of these rallies have concluded that the President of the Government must take time and respond with content or with at least a little content, but not by misleading, lagging into 1945, by moving and similar practices, in which there is no exception. In short, the National Assembly, as an institution, clearly believes that the allegations of corruption and the prime minister's mafia governance are justified. We voted on this and adopted it by a majority. That is why it requires at least the answers of the President of the Government if he does not already accept any responsibility for his conduct. Why, in the opinion of the LMŠ, the National Assembly considers that Members are justified, and even more people, we see, in fact, from day to day, from week to week and from month to month. Although or perhaps because there are no epilogues and no epilogues, the answers are urgent today. It started about 20 months ago with a catastrophically dictated purchase of protective and medical equipment, with a steady uncontrolled and untransparent purchase of everything on average, of course for their profits. It continued to be totally wrong and to the point of insulting, underestimating communication with people, by adopting unconstitutional measures that interfered disproportionately and without a legal basis with the fundamental rights of people, not with laws, but with decrees. By violating the Constitution and ignoring laws that the authorities should respect first as an example to people, with human rights brutality, by interfering with vital state subsystems – SURS, FURS, NPU, the police, Energy and other state-owned companies, we do not need to mention in detail, all of us remember hundreds of suspended because they are not serviceable. The obvious and also proven irregularities of violations and illegality are a whole species, huge and excessive. And what is completely incomprehensible is that he is ruling with President John Janša in the lead. She bragged about disappearing trucks, bragging about golf, bragging about saving lives, bragging about efficiency at the beginning. And this smugness continues and lasts, while at the same time the omens and criticisms of the civil sphere of the opposition actually attribute to everyone and everyone their misunderstandings. Everyone's wrong, only the government is infallible. They're all ignorant, only the government is omniscient. Everyone's against her. She's the only one who works for everyone. It's not like that. The profession in your own and from you personally named advisory group has warned you from the beginning of the suspicions of war profit – that is exactly what they used – in the purchase of equipment. Did you respond to anything? No, no, no. You have sent to Parliament a government report on procurement, full of false allegations and misleading. And since the report is not signed, the responsibility is collectively government, with you at the head. We were monitoring a spectacular flight of planes, right in the face of the coming difficult day when we lost a busload of people every day in Slovenia. Then you didn't get the vaccine because it was probably too expensive, but you got quick antigen tests that the expert warned you weren't suitable for mass testing. Did you do something? No, on the contrary, as the last few days' minister of health, you approved these tests and made it possible for the boys to do sick work. And so we monitored your activity or inactivity through the third and fourth waves. More priority was given to brutal human resources exchanges to control the country of you and your political currents before the upcoming elections, as much as possible. In the meantime, we also monitored past vacations on yachts of famous businessmen with the most famous lobbyists. And did you have the opportunity to explain your view and your role to everyone? You did, repeatedly, but you didn't accept it because you didn't want to face unpleasant questions, because you don't have to put bills because you're allowed everything. Today, however, we will likely be following in a well - known manner the wonder why we have this meeting. It's a big surprise. We have it because the majority of Parliament, which you say you are in control of, have concluded and voted on, not on the motion, the majority in Parliament have decided that answers are needed today. But you think, in fact, you're sure that the whole world has conspired against you, but it hasn't, it's responded to facts, and they're not exactly brilliant. The EUobserver announced that Slovenia's GDP, which is about €47 billion, costs 7.5% every year, €3.5 billion, €3 000,500 million. Did you do anything to stop anything in this direction? No, no, no. Even the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors has been a selfish hindrance, and their task is to detect fraud with European money if we cannot prevent it in Slovenia. And you see, the difference between us and you, between the opposition and the coalition, between the LMSH and the SDS, is a fundamental difference. We believe in the inviolability and respect for the rule of law, we believe in the law, we do not seek criminal justice, we know how to separate between private, state and public. We know how to take responsibility and we stand firm for transparency. Here are the essential differences between us and you, between LMSH and SDS. And today we demand answers, concrete and no selective amnesia. Are we going to get them? Given my own and short experience in this respected institution, I am not exactly optimistic. But we certainly can't feel good. You know, we didn't go into politics in LMŠ to deal with your crime, but to do something for people. We have ideas, drive, vision, experts, content and solutions. But we can't face the content, the views, and the best, because you know everything and it's the only way in which you're going. That it's complete corruption and mob income doesn't matter. Isn't it? When your party soldiers, or soldiers, relentlessly attacked after corruption, of course only in words, you, the Prime Minister of the Government, enjoyed luxury at sea with the most famous suppliers in the country. Today in LMŠ we give you a clear sign and message: Enough corruption. Enough domestic business with ours and ours. The time has come when it will be necessary to lay down accounts and also to restore the entire story of the origin of the property. This time it's honest and realistic, not with a fig in my pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Respected and respected! A question sent to the President of the Government concerning corruption and mafia governance with the country. Sounds awful worrying. In a democratic and legal country, they would even say that something like this is impossible. However, under this government, anything, including the decommissioning of the rule of law, unacceptable interference with independent and independent authorities, pressure on the media and so on. This government deliberately destroys public media space and interferes with media freedom. If I start only with a report by the European Commission on the rule of law, which notes in the report that the situation regarding media freedom and media pluralism in Slovenia is deteriorating. Online harassment of journalists and threats to journalists are an increasing source of concern, says this report. Next, illegal non-financialisation of the Slovenian Press Agency, attacks and insults of public national media, interference with information broadcasts and so on. If I only point out the development of national RTV a few days ago, when there is a reasonable suspicion that certain content has been censored only because these contents were directed at the main tax inspector who himself boasted that he should invite the best, most decent taxpayers who pay the most, to some lunch. And when we tried, civil society tried to challenge these things, of course, the new structure of public RTV prevented their voices from being heard. This is how dictatorships and autocratic states work with the media. And unfortunately, in recent days, the main hostage is public RTV and, of course, this power has largely subjugated it. It's unacceptable and unacceptable. Therefore, the first thing to do is to end the fear of this government in order to establish such a legal basis that politics will no longer be able to influence the public RTV programme. Also, John Janša does not publicly conceal that he has a thorn in the heel of NGOs, since he says that most of them are just lined up on the stings of taxpayers and that their funding is in some way compared or blamed for the lack of money to build a home for the elderly and other important things. And, of course, he's a terrible deceiver, all with the sole purpose of discrediting them. NGOs are one of the key pillars of any normal society, and for this government obviously everything before that. I'd rather not see them. I'd like to wipe them out of my face. Such things really only happen in authoritarian countries, where the government has only a handful of people who want to subjugate all social sub-systems in the country. And that's what he's been doing in the last two years. In this context, we could really interpret this debate today on corruption and mafia governance. Then forward, Your Honor and Your Honor. Police politicization. Never since the beginning of our country have I heard so many police experts talk about such serious policy interventions to the police as I hear in these two years of the reign of John Janša, or about the unacceptable pressure on the prosecution, when the government does not appoint the state prosecutors or the European Delegated Prosecutors, because they do not fit it, very simply. The task of the State is to protect fundamental human rights and the highest legal assets in society and therefore, in its interest, to prosecute the worst forms of crime. At least that's how it's supposed to be. The police and the prosecution are two bodies for which it is essential that, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, they act by constitution and law, not by policy, because they are engaged in the detection and prosecution of the worst crimes. And it is these two organs that seem to be the most affected by the reign of Janez Janša. In the wake of the implementation of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, all the police leaders were given a decision to end the situation. That's almost 130 people in leading positions. The law changes the way new executives are appointed in the police force, so that the appointment will now depend on the will and wishes of the retired Minister Hojs, even more so than who, by work, effort and experience, deserves to occupy the highest positions in the police, but whether he likes Minister Hojs or not. If I move forward, saga or tragedy, I could say, with European Delegated Prosecutors. The European chief prosecutor said last week that it was clear to her that the conduct of our government, when it did not want to appoint or approve two Delegated Prosecutors, was sabotaged by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That this led to a gap in the European Public Prosecutor's Office and that they could not start investigations in Slovenia. What the President of the Government and this government are afraid of, we ask ourselves. Respected and respected, this government has the first minister in the history of Slovenia in criminal proceedings due to economic crime. In this government, there is a minister who would not pay taxes and lay eggs on the judges. This government is run by the President of the Government, who does not raise judicial shipments that insult judges and prosecutors when their decisions do not suit him. This, of course, undermines the confidence of citizens and citizens in all the institutions in the country. And then the President of the Government, in response to the question we are discussing today, says quite the opposite. I quote: "Not to mention how everything has been done in all the systems at this time, in the judiciary, in the prosecution, in the police, in education, in diplomacy, in the social institutions, in public companies, in the supervisory agencies, and in principle in the negative selection of staff. This is why today we have many social subsystems controlled by parallel mechanisms or, as you say, mafia and corruption." End of quote. The President of the Government is therefore convinced that the non-political professional and independent bodies act in a biased manner according to the guidance of some old Udbomafian structures. With these beliefs, it excuses its political fracturing and staffing, and the impact on so-called social sub-systems. Already seen in many systems, last in neighbouring Hungary. The worrying fact is that the government is writing legislation that benefits its supporters. He writes laws for specific people and specific situations. For example, the PKP has hidden laws in which it has already hidden a number of subcontractors, an example of an extension of accreditations that has benefited only one and only one specific private university. Or an invitation to tender for concessions for universities or the adoption of a construction law which will finally enable the Member concerned to legalise its black construction. Well, you see, this kind of thing keeps most of the government going. And if I continue to mention, the most famous Slovenian lawyer, John Janša's advocate, the Ministry of the Environment has assisted and granted a permit for the operation of the biogas plant, which was requested by a Hungarian buyer at the time of the sale and demanded a million euros in compensation. The suspicions of corruption were also found in the purchase of protective equipment. Not to mention the affair of all arms affairs. There is not enough paper to list all the suspicious actions of this government, some of its members and supporters. The portal uncensored the whole point in one sentence, I quote: "But it is now clear that the SDS will have an advantage over political rivalries before the upcoming elections in the National Assembly. The ruling party has practically unlimited financial resources, particularly from abroad, including to finance its own propaganda. This is demonstrated by a number of documents and data on financial flows between SDS, its media and various Hungarian companies, which we have analysed in the last year in the editorial sector." Moreover, “The independent investigation should therefore also check whether it is the original Hungarian money. The sequence of events points to the possible links between Hungarian remittances and the international money laundering network, which according to investigators in several countries is supported by Rok Snezič. The SDS party most likely collects money from abroad, which is illegal, even more, the money that flows into its hands can even come from criminal associations.” Of course, it is a serious accusation, which must certainly be proved first, but, unfortunately, these people are running the country today. Dear colleagues, late April 24 April will be a very important day. I think that all citizens and citizens see the direction Slovenia is going under the Jancism. And I believe that April will be a serious beginning to the sinking of amber. Thirty years of working with John Janša and his controversial business were enough, as were the insults of all who think otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The final point of view is the position of the Left Group, which will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. The dispersion created by the government of Janez Janša in this country under the cover of the covida-19 epidemic in the last two years is tangible, very tangible. But the question is how measurable it is and how much we can define it in numbers. Maybe we can try to start with the next one. At the beginning of this month, which is the month of December, the anti-corruption Commission has provided data to ensure that as much as 7.5% of the gross social product, or EUR 3.5 billion in fat in that country, is destroyed every year by corruption. Translated into the current political situation, this means that people in this country pay 7.5% of gross social product or 3.5 billion euros as a mob rocket to the power structure in this country. It is totally unacceptable, but almost understandable, for the situation of peripheral capitalism, in which we can also put the Republic of Slovenia. For countries of peripheral capitalism, it is characteristic that the link between the political and capitalist classes has given up any development function and has given up on the parasite an income role. By social dumping, cutting down environmental restrictions and taxing the rich and capital, this peripheral logic creates a flow, at which the demand for capital and policy sits, if necessary also through corruption, and cuts its share of the margin. We can see this very clearly especially in Eastern Europe, which is the focus of the current government of Janez Janša, from Hungary to Poland, after all, Serbia. For these countries of this type of dispersion within peripheral capitalism, the transformation of right-wing parties into extreme right-hand parties and the transformation of client structures into purely typical mafia pyramids is also significant. This is somehow the logic from which we have been able to monitor this government's affair from the beginning, by buying masks and fans, and by issuing all possible commissions for these transactions, and with various cryptopiramidas who have supplied fast tests and have earned fat. It's just the tip of the iceberg. Only the most typical form of corruption, where we can say that private interest affects the public interest. Perhaps even more problematic is the so-called legalized corruption. In particular, we have been able to monitor the affairs of the Coronary Supplements, where the medical and insurance lobby has also been richly rewarded with thousands, 10,000 euros of a doctor-specific allowance for its political loyalty to the current government of Janez Janša and for sharing their ambitions after the privatisation of our public health system. The far largest amount of legalised corruption funds has, however, come under this government under the umbrella of economic aid. Billions and billions of public money earned through debt were transferred into private pockets of selected capitalists just to keep them in possession of their property, their monopoly on productive assets, and the state or government did not ask who needed it and who did not, it was important that profits were secured and that jobs could be painted. Of course, in defense of this action today, we listen to all possible conspiracy theories. The biggest problem with these theories is, in fact, not that they are pure fairy tales and fictions, but that they are handed over by Janez Janš from the post of Prime Minister of the Government and not from prison. In prison, he encountered an example that can be presented as a typical example of how the current government of Janez Janša works, which is the arrest chamber of the same Janez Janša and convicted fraud Rok Snezič. The deadline of Snezič has also been proven by investigations in several different countries in the criminal network, which has been in Slovakia, Hungary, Austria, Switzerland and since 2016, and has washed or turned around €22 million. Part of this money also flowed into the financing of the SDS media network, the New24, and finally in the form of that insolvent loan, Dijana Djudžić, directly into small SDS. Fortunately, public pressure prevented that action at the time, but it was eloquent enough. But today, Roz Snezic, who owes the country more than half a billion euros, continues to praise himself as his advisor with his friendship with Prime Minister Janez Janša. And he's got his affections back. How? Through state energy, this same law firm, Roka Snezič, is funded by the same law firm, with which a person who is formally de facto without property, makes a series of complaints against everyone in this country, the media, politicians, with me at the helm, who we hope will be able to expose this power and its friends in any way. At the same time, at the top of the National Bureau of Investigation, this government placed a friend of Roc Snežič Petro Grah Lazar, of course, in order to sweep his past crime and current government's work under the rug and to ensure that no one in this group will be harmed. It's kind of a motivation that drives the police's staff cleaners, which pushes pressure on the media and everything else that we can hear about today, and we'll hear more from here. To conclude, I will reiterate what I think we should all take away from today's debate. This is a minor problem with conspiracy theories, about the Murgels, the deep state, and I do not know what the SDS is spreading with Prime Minister Janez Janša in charge, is the fact that Janez Janša answers to today's meeting from the post of Prime Minister of the Government, not from the arrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. First, Dr. Tashner Vatovec, the proposaler, gets the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. A few responses at the beginning. What is the coalition's tactics, as we have heard in our positions, is very obvious that this is a typical tactic that was also highlighted by a colleague from the SMC who represented the position. So, some sort of diversionary action, when he says, look, they're the ones doing it, we're just defending ourselves. I think this tactic is going to work badly today. I propose this point, I propose this decision. It will be very difficult for you to tell me what happened at the time that Peterle and Kučan were doing their things, and it will be difficult for you to tell me any past influence on the media or any other activity. I mean, most of the fantasies you dream about happened when I barely crossed the threshold of elementary school. As far as this is concerned, you will have to find some more creative way to address this issue, which is, of course, a very important question. What we have heard today, the piles or long lists of how corruption works through this government, and every time SDS is in the government and Janez Janša is at the head of the government, is one thing that should be of great concern to every responsible person in the National Assembly and also to a wider society. And I think that on these three experiences that we have experienced, we have probably already learned well and learned what it means to run this association and that these things should be cut off. Therefore, my supplementary question was also at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, whether it might be time for the President of the Government to retire politically. As for all these statements by coalition members, “you want to go back to power, you want to do the same, you want to do it back, you want your influence back. ” [[…]] Here I would point out only one thing – this fake dichotomy that you're painting, me and you, has one problem, and this is the problem that has been shown just by the footage in the stupid tax affair. The actors of this affair were Mr Visjak and Mr Petan. Petan as a longtime member, or at least in the LDS orbit, who spoke to the then Minister of Economy of Visiak about some purely specific business. And this is our country's problem – when the issue of work comes to light, if you want to call it that, or if you want to call it that, or if you want to call it that corrupt business, the color of politics quickly fades. And this cooperation between Mr Visionak and Petan, as I have already said in the introductory explanation, has a longer dimension than only Terme Catež. The question is, why was the DZS at the time buying companies in orbit of the brother of the Prime Minister and why these funds then ran where they were. And then why did some come to real estate, cars, and so on? This was not about some deep-state operation, but it was about the very explicit work of representatives of two political parties, on the paper of opponents, who had very specific interests at a certain point. As for your media moaning and so on, how is corruption and strange things happening everywhere and how it is pressing on the media, which is mostly privately owned in Slovenia. I'd just like to warn you how Nova24 is financed. We now have an investigative commission in the National Assembly that works more on gills since she replaced the president, but there are some members active. It appears that these amounts of money, which was injected into Nova24 by funds coming from Hungary coming from Hungary also through other countries into the organizations of a group of people who are, see also the fractions associated with Rok Snezic, allegedly. The same Rock Snezic, who is the consigliere of the Prime Minister of the Government and has been advising him since the Age on how to take these transactions. What is problematic in this is that, without the sale of Novo24 to some Hungarian companies, it is problematic that this was the perimeter of the rules and the law applicable to the financing of political parties in Slovenia, because Nova24 carried out an online SDS party campaign with the same money from Hungary during the 2018 early elections with sponsored ads on its facebook profiles and sharing content on the SDS party. This is only one of the ways in which this party, of course, tries to expand its influence. Also problematic are the flow of money, or circles of money, that just come and go, with cash remittances and so on. These are things that are just by the book, manual mafia methods, these are things that you can also read in the best if you want, books that deal with these topics. And here Mrs. Gregorčič is right. She said that the thief points with his finger and yells, "Take the thief!" Taking into account all the views of the coalition parties that we have heard today, this is damn true. And this thief is called SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Now I suggest before you get another word that you do not pursue such judgments as you do not have any grounds and no evidence, Comrade Vatovec. If you continue to use such methods and debates, I will warn you. Prime Minister Janez Janša, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Just a few answers. The last debater said that since this mafia power has ascended to the government in Slovenia for 3.5 billion money, it is corruption. [[…]] I've never heard so much self-criticism, because this data is from 2016. Here is a study by the European Parliament's Research Centre, conducted in 2016 by RAND Europe, that the cost of corruption at European Union level is somewhere between €180 and €990 billion; as Slovenia's GDP is 0.35 GDP of the European Union, we can conclude that the cost of corruption in Slovenia is €3.5 billion. This is calculated from the evaluation for Europe and 2016. As far as I know, it was on the left hand side at the time, or at least it was on the jump, as well as the other parties that voted on this debate. So if that's it, then thanks for the self-criticism, it's pretty rare here. Someone was talking about TES. The fact that the investment firm that built the TES recognised corruption and, on the basis of the procedure that we completed in this government, paid 240 million pens has disappeared from the Slovenian media in one day. The company that built TEŠ6 recognised 240 million corruption, at least so many pens paid in different forms or will pay them. We all know it was a project of proud heirs. Proven corruption, not what is said here about certain purchases and respirators and so on and thousands of euros. 240 million euros. And where are the court proceedings? There are some judges, probably in a court that is in the same building as the Social Democrats in Velenj. If you know any seat of any court in Slovenia, which is at the same address as the Slovenian Democratic Party, then show it to me. But in Velenje, you're just neighbors. And corruption of EUR 240 million has been proven at TEŠ6 – no serious judicial epilogue or proceedings against those who have led the case in the background. We're doing a little bit of court-martialing until they're probably excused because they know too much. As far as the frame-up is concerned. We all remember the famous USB key of the Secretary-General of Social Democrats after the 2008 or 2011 elections when he waved: “There are names that will replace everyone who is not ours!” And these same parties now manifest political recruitment to others. I mean, a man would cry. I'm just reading that last year, when you proposed to J.P. Damian as a mandate holder, this expert signed an advisory and research contract with Genoa. Last year. I believe that the Anti-Corruption Commission will not detect any corruption like that of the President of the Court of Auditors for 20 thousand euros a month, because it is the first-class. So much for the Mafia country today. Where are the roots? I'll read you two articles under two constitutional laws if you don't understand the point and I'll explain it. On 25 June 1991, the Slovenian Assembly adopted the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. And in this constitutional law, in Article 11, the second paragraph, where it states, said: “The Republic of Slovenia will take over an appropriate proportion of those sovereign debts of the SFRJ whose direct beneficiary is not identifiable.” These are the so-called unresolved debts of the SFRJ. This was adopted on 25 June 1991. On 27 July 1994, an amendment to this constitutional law was adopted at a meeting convened on the same day. The doors of this Parliament have been locked, and no Member has been released. The Act was published on the same day in the Official Journal. In this amendment to the Constitutional Law, an article was added 22b, which is generally known where it reads: "Ljubljana banka, d.d., Ljubljana and Kreditna banka Maribor, d.d., Maribor leave business and property to new banks established under the provisions of this Constitutional Law." This is the famous decision for which we are paying today, which is why Slovenian taxpayers are still paying branch savers today. This constitutional law also recorded something that was not communicated at the time, to which only we were alerting, even though we had only four members at that time in the National Assembly and one minister in the government. Article 22 of this Constitutional Act also states: “The share of the debt referred to in Article 11(2) of this Constitutional Law will be taken over by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of the new agreement with foreign commercial banks and the new bilateral agreement with the members of the Paris Club.” This constitutional law of July 1994 deleted or amended the second paragraph of Article 11 — in 1991, I was a member of the Constitutional Commission and of the then Assembly — which adopted this constitutional law, and we then wrote this because Slovenian taxpayers would not be forced to pay disproportionately the proportion of uncontrolled Yugoslav debts. We Slovenians were 8% in the former SFRY, after GDP we represented some 16%, and in these frameworks we were also prepared to assume unallocationable debts, that is, those debts that were formally not known which part of Yugoslavia was used, although they were largely not in Slovenia. Both articles, which were amended or added to the Act implementing the Basic Constitutional Charter, had major consequences for Slovenian taxpayers. And in both cases, it is Mafia governance with the country that then adopted the highest legislative authority in a way that kidnapped it. Members received material on the table, they were told, Slovenia will go bankrupt if we do not get rid of the debts of former branches, you have to accept this and under this pressure the vote has been voted on, I do not know who voted in favour and who against it, but in a few hours the constitutional law has been amended. Now the motives. At the time, we were in the government and the government came up with a proposal to sign an agreement with the Paris Club or creditors of the former Yugoslavia and to agree in this agreement to pay 44% of the outstanding Yugoslav debts. We were then a weak coalition party with four Members, but we stopped this agreement because we were just alerting us to the constitutional law. Drnovšek took it back then. And then what happened? It happened Depala village, the removal of the Slovenian Democratic Party from the government and the kidnapping of the Slovenian Parliament and the amendment of this law. When it comes to the branches of the former Ljubljana Bank, it is necessary to know that the branches of the former Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb, Sarajevo and Skopje had the status of independent banks in 1988 and most of 1989 did not have the responsibility for the roles of the depositors of these banks. Then, at the end of 1989, a meeting of the party leaders of Slovenia and Serbia in Belgrade took place, the formal event was the opening of the Studio Marketing branch in Maribor with a large pump, with Milan Kučan and Slobodan Milosevic present. And there was an agreement that Yugoslavia should be linked so capitally that the independence would not be paid off. On this basis, the Bank of Ljubljana has converted from the status of independent banks in these three republics to branches. And Serbia did so for the Bank of Belgrade with consequences that were significantly lower than those we suffered. The management of the Ljubljana Bank then ordered an elaboratory on this, on the usefulness of this step. Ellaborat showed it was negative. The lady who signed this lab then died, under strange circumstances, and the lab disappeared from the archives. We are paying for the consequences today because we lost in the European Court of Justice, the savers of the independent Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb, turned into a branch, large sums. Consequences of taking over the disproportionate part of the disproportionate debt. Why did we then object? Because there's been information in the public record that the Safti Group - you probably know who it is? This was simply a udbomafi organization under the cover of assistance to the Slovenian insteadment in Italy. That the Safti financial institutions in secondary markets purchased Yugoslav debt from creditors at a price of 10 cents per dollar, not at a price of 40 cents per dollar at the beginning of Yugoslavia's collapse when it was on the market. In 1994, however, the value of Yugoslav debt in secondary markets fell to 10 cents per dollar. And all these institutions, MicroM was one of these, of course they lost a lot. Money that went from Slovenia to abroad, which was then hidden at the time of transition and independence. And of course, by making Slovenia take on a disproportionate part of this debt, the price of Yugoslav debt in secondary markets has suddenly risen. And see, in the negotiating group of the then Slovenian government, which was negotiating with the Paris Club and with the trustees, there were also people from the leadership of Safti. We pointed out that at the time, it should be all in government records, including magnetograms, if they haven't already deleted them. And this could not go through the government until then it changed with Article 22, paragraph 11, of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter. There is probably no legal act in the history of the Slovenian State that would cause such damage to Slovenian taxpayers, twice as damaged as that decision. Has anyone been responsible for this? Was there some sort of procedure going on? Has anyone asked for responsibility after the European Court of Justice has reached its verdict? We are still paying for this and we are likely to have to do most of this in the future. So much for this, so much for our debt to the state. And to continue with, I will say, Mafia governance with the country through a description of just one of these parallel mechanisms, which Mr Rado Pezdir pointed out in this book. In this book, you can find all about the Ljubljana Bank, its branches abroad, how they formed, who managed it, how they were taken over, how the party put the staff there even after the independence, with documents. I've never heard any of those mentioned here to say anything that doesn't hold. Everything is quiet, it is frustrated in this regard, despite the fact that the New Ljubljana Bank then appeared until privatisation as one of the instruments of mafia governance with the country. I hope that today the new owners have made it clear that the bank is far from what is described here, and that we are finally saved, I will say, these threats. You have good financial results, so let's hope that at least that's behind us. But it's only been a recent one. Before the 2011 elections, I think Mr Jankovic admitted to the explicit question of the Head of National Television that he had called on the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank to agree that the consortium of Slovenian banks would approve 200 million Euros of credit for the Premises, which had never been repaid. We're paying him off because we socialised him with public debt. 200 million. The man called, the Ljubljana mayor called the NLB administration and they approved. He said it himself. It's nobody's fault. Some trial on the abuse of European funds against him and Mr Roman Jakič, who is full of the rule of law and human rights while liberalism, but because Mr Janković said equally publicly on television that he would never be convicted or imprisoned because he always opposed the SDS policy that the Member had previously said we were a criminal association, then we see how things were put on the table. All of this has led to a situation where the biggest crime of the international dimension in the history of the Slovenian state was also possible. I think a colleague from New Slovenia mentioned this earlier, this is the laundering of Iranian money in the New Ljubljana Bank during the reign of proud successors. It was not worth 800 million euros, the latest figures show that NLB was then laundered $1 billion 800 million, $1 billion 800 million. And this money wasn't scattered into 35,000 accounts, as it pointed out then, but into over 70,000 different accounts. Some spoke on behalf of Miki Miska and Jake Racman, and this went through all the control of mob governance with the country. Has anyone been convicted of this? Has anyone been charged with this at least? No, no, no. The prosecutor who rejected the charges, as far as they had been filed so far or most of them, was sent to the European Public Prosecutor's Office for the award. His colleagues in the D.A.'s Council sent him to the European Prosecutor's Office for a prize. So much for European prosecutors. And a big saga now about the deputized prosecutors. Mrs Kövesieva said that the suspicion of illegal spending of European money, as far as Slovenia is concerned, is in 12 cases. But these cases aren't from our mandate, they're from your mandate. That's why you're so interested that people who are close to you are investigating this, so that nothing else will be discovered, as has been revealed in the case of Stožice, where Mr Jankovic and Mr Jakič sold the boiler room not by square meters, but by cubic metres of air. Very innovative, I must say. Experts have found that Iran is paying commissions in hundreds of millions of euros to launder such large sums of money when the Commission of Inquiry here discovered this crime of international proportions. So those of you who made it possible, tell me where these millions are. In what media, in which NGOs, in which paramilitary groups? You probably didn't point this at Karitas and the Red Cross, did you? At least so far it hasn't been significant. Supervisory institutions that should respond – Anti-Money Laundering Office, Criminal Police, NPU, Prosecutors, Investigative Courts – in Iran-NLB case, 10 years, 11, 12 years passed, no charges passed. Nothing. And now you're talking about corruption? When I explain when the word sometimes brings these problems to European colleagues about this case, they look very incredulously. Somehow they don't believe it's possible. They do not believe that it is possible for the National Assembly to unanimously adopt a report by the Commission of Inquiry, where all data on the laundering of Iranian money is available to the institutions and nothing happens. They don't believe. Look, nobody in Europe believes that this is exactly what it is. And in this case, it's some kind of lactose paper. IranNLBgate, with all the international and domestic criminal consequences, is the lacumus paper of the Slovenian criminal police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Until these things are investigated, don't let me know the statistics, how much corruption they've discovered, how they've persecuted her, and so on and so forth. And now to all those who advocate it, indeed, a drop down on the ability of such misbehaviour. We have a lot of criminals at the head of the population, a lot of prosecutors at the head of the population, I think, a record number of judges per capita, but when it comes to big corruption cases involving parallel deep-state mechanisms, all this crowd is doing nothing. No, I'm correcting myself, in cases where they fall apart, as in the case of Judge Radonjić, who was just judging by his conscience, they all come after him, they all come after him and chase him out of the system. And no noise. It is a group, for example, when an obscurate portal writes that our leader of the parliamentary group does not have a diploma — the next day he has to show it. National media or dependent media, such as national television or POP TV, are triggering a huge cow because Mr Simonovic, the Member of Desus, has no diploma, and must show and watch every phone, every word, every comma, every signature. Then there's doubt about the Supreme Judge's degree, and there's no dependent media about it. The Supreme Court has issued a communication that all the judges are appointed by some procedure, that these issues are inappropriate, that the judge will initiate proceedings and that he will make an appeal for charitable purposes. Is that the rule of law? You can imagine that there is a suspicion somewhere, such as that one of these rare judges who is not involved in a parallel mechanism of a deep state has no diploma or has no judicial exam. Let us say that such doubt arises in the case of Mr Jan Zobac. What a tie! Graduates from national television would stand at his door and wait for him to show his degree. However, since it is a dedicated judge, there is total silence in the central media. The opposition does not require any reference to any commission and verification, and so on; they all act as if it were some disgusting attack on the independence of the judiciary. At the same time, in the National Assembly at the Supreme Court, you appoint judges of people who do not have a single day of judicial practice, such as Mr Gorkič, to become a supreme judge. In this case, one really wonders if, without one day being in the courtroom, one can become a supreme judge, as then one without a diploma can become a judge; I mean, these criteria have really been completely divorcised. Look, this is Mafia government. All these procedures, ignoring, breaking the rules, defending something, because it was ours, it's no problem, you have to defend it with all the means. And then the creation of data like this, that corruption disappears at the time of this government, 3.5 billion euros, even though this is 2016 data. Now, whether it's accurate or not, I don't know, but if we're just adding all of these things that are connected to the Ljubljana Bank, to the parallel mechanism connected to the Slovenian banking system, and all of these abuses, then probably this number is still low if you look for the average. But you certainly will not get it if you add up the cost of personal protective equipment and the respiratory masks, because if it were all corruption, you would not reach 10 percent of that amount. That's it. I really suggest that we talk about the actual problems of mafia governance with the country, which, for example, are described in this book by Mr Pezdir very precisely with all possible documents and, I will say, a very mild approach when it comes to evaluating individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. After 20 minutes of a little lesson in history, I really don't know what we're talking about anymore. President of the government, what you've just been giving away sounds like a typical Trumpet QAnon. Well, there's some conspiracy between some people who run the country, and I don't know what. That's exactly what I suggested that we actually talk about people's problems, and you go into some conspiracy theory, into some past. Look, I don't know if anyone's interested in this, today it might be information that criminals are investigating the National Laboratory for Health, Food and so on with regard to the verification of the Maybert Pharma tests, which, of course, made more than €5 million worth of this company in the past year. An entity of which one of the main founders and leaders is someone connected to a SDS client. That's what I'm talking about. I was talking about the newly established supply company owned by the brother of the Prime Minister of the Government, which, suddenly, at the time of the epidemic, began to supply the respirators. So that we don't go on with what's been bought. Now, if this is not corruption that the Prime Minister of the Government would at least hope to say, no, it is not true, as he said before, that no one has denied this QAnon, which he has just given away. Even the Presidents of the Government did not deny that everything was wrong with those beds at the moment. So here I think that this misdirection clearly points to this tactic once again. You do it, someone else does it, a deep country does it, it's not us. In fact, you do twice, three times the worse. In fact, what is happening and what we have been following since you were in power last March is essentially one continuous cycle of corruption that has been taking place from day to day. A few days ago, we also read again how some of the people that the President of the Government here in the National Assembly accuses them of what their roles were during the epidemic. That is how Mr Breznik, the Member of State at the time, visited Rastoder and what these visits were intended for. Again linked to the financing of Nova24 and again linked to customer services. Not to mention once again, Holding of Slovenian Power Plants is paying for a law firm that is in stock for lawsuits against individuals in this country, journalists, Members and so on. Holding Slovenian power plants pays some law firm that Roku Snezicu, who is the consigliere of Mr Janša, can file your chain lawsuits all around. A man who drives around Slovenia with hundreds of thousands of euros worth of masseracy, who officially has nothing or some 300 euros in cash per month or a bank account, is one of the major taxpayers in this country. Nothing happens. What about this? What are we going to do with this corruption, what are we going to do with playing rules, by playing tax money? A man who is more than obviously closely linked to the President of the Government owes the country half a million euros in taxes and nothing happens. In this case, the President of the Government has very specific levers to move something if he cares and if he really is such a warrior against corruption. Not to mention Mr Simic, who is also one of the advisors to the President of the Government, who has scrutinised the FURS data on tax confidentiality at the time he was there. We can also go after the ministers. We have the Minister of Justice, who is probably the first time in the history of this country that someone is suspected of forging documents and tax evasion, the Minister of Justice. So we don't touch the different visionaries and that. And here's to talk about some of the things that happened in the early '90s, when Slovenia was on its own, about what ex-communists, future communists, and I don't know, proud heirs, I don't know who cares? [[…]] Let's engage, I don't know, Detective, let Mr Pezdir explore this even more thoroughly, three-quarters of things are probably obsolete and we're not going to solve this. However, I am specifically interested in why this government is doing the same thing and has no problem with it. What we have now heard from the President of the Government is literally, look, because that's what everyone's been doing in the past and we're going to do a little bit. We'll have some. I mean, it's problematic, it's twisted. And that's what you do. This is what you do when, for example, you put a man, a person who doesn't have a single day of specific practice, as the President of the Government has now said for one supreme judge, a man who wrote more than no criminal charges in his life and so on and is now the head of the NPU, and of course also a close friend of Roca Snezic, once again consigliere of the Prime Minister of the Government. Yesterday and since the beginning of this government's mandate, you have been putting pressure on the media, and we know for what purpose. Managing the media is one of the basic methods to control, of course, what comes into the public, to what extent and how the truth is interpreted. This is what you've been trying to achieve with the STA, now you're trying to achieve with RTV, attacks, capital pressure on the media are happening by the SDS in this country. Once again, even as far as arms affairs are concerned, someone at the outset said that it was also a planted thing. Look, Patria's not, she didn't end up in this country. The proceedings were outdated, they were outdated, while in Finland and Austria people were responsible for related matters. But it's likely that these affairs will happen again. Once again, for the first time in history, we have received a law that provides for essentially legalised spending of 780 million dollars on arms deals, and from month to month their items are growing. I think these are problems that we should talk about today, not some old transition stories, Peterletts and Puppies, I don't think anyone should be interested in, or at least shouldn't be interested in. We have people today who don't know how to pay their bills for rising electricity prices. We have people who don't know if it even makes sense to stay in a country where there's not enough jobs and we're facing a brain drain. We have a problem that people will probably start leaving because you're trying to subjugate schools, you're trying to subjugate the media, all the subsystems, and they don't even see the point of staying in this society anymore. And I think there are things people are interested in today. But not some old story from 20, 30 years ago that actually only serves to put this Tomkin village, which you then attack, while in the background, things are much worse than what you're trying to show.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Mojato Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	President, I ask you to warn the debater before me, Mr Vatovac, that there are two committees in this Parliament in connection with the acquisition of the tests he has mentioned and that he has prejudged the outcome of these investigations, which he should not have. And that, at the same time, he violated and spoke about who the biggest taxpayer was, that is, tax secrecy, while condemning Director Simic not to know what his signature was. In fact, Director Fursa Simič will sign all informational calculations. And now the Lord has spoken [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Colleague Mojca Boxer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	on taxpayers. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	I'm sorry, but this is not a procedural proposal. [[…]] In this case, nothing has happened with regard to the Rules of Procedure, and another is the substantive emphasis, which you will also be able to deny in the debate, because they are inaccurate and misleading. We continue the debate. I'm going to start by reading the first three, four, that you're up to because of certain changes. First he gets the word Anja Bah Žibert, followed by Rudy Medved, Natasha Sukič and Joseph Horvat. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	President, thank you so much for your word. Just maybe a few answers to what I've heard so far. When it was voted in the National Assembly to discuss mafia governance and corruption, at first I thought or was still not sure if it was an inside-left hearing. Given that I do not see Luka Mesca here and that he would probably like to explain to us what he was doing with Kordez, of course this matter would be very interesting. It is not just a man convicted of corruption, it is a turbocapitalist and a man who has actually admitted to harming that country. And given that you're meeting him for coffee, this is certainly a very good starting point for today's debate. We will probably get these explanations in the coming hours while this meeting is still under way. Secondly, I am very concerned about what my colleague Vatovec said when it seemed that all the matters concerning the investigative commissions were already known. And I wonder if it's already written in advance, or if it's written in the first place, and then it's started to work, because we already have the answers at the beginning, and then there's the commission of inquiry. This is another serious problem that I see today, and I hope that there will be much more to be said about it in this national assembly. Now I think it is also time for us to answer once to the proud heirs, not to deal so much with the Slovenian Democratic Party and to pay their own bills. There are one of the customers who have debt, unpaid accounts, and it doesn't end up having a bad light on all the other parties, even the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the people he wants to work with then look a little bit strange because they think it's normal for you not to pay the bills in this country. But of course this is true of the first-class. Comrade Vatovec said he wanted to talk about the present, but he started against the arms affair and so on. Yeah, it's true, Patricia's out of date, that's all the defendants wanted, that's what someone else wanted. In order to know things, however, we must go at least at the time of our independence. Now we know exactly that those for whom independence was not an intimate choice and they never wanted it. At that time, however, it was also a time when we were talking about the so-called transition and about Slovenia urgently needing it. Today we can tell not only that it wasn't, it failed. But all this was happening on purpose. There were blind bullets in Slovenia, but there was never a transition. It's not a book for me, but it's a real manual. Don't talk about the past. From the past things flow into the present. And our present has a problem because of these unresolved issues, and I've already mentioned the transition. If anyone has in the past thought about what a deep state is, in fact, an indefinite verbal relationship, with this research guide, respected and respected, the answer is in the palm of his hand. You will be able to see exactly who, what, and why. Let me mention just one of the pieces in this book: “The network created by the old links between politics, then the Judgment and the economy was by means of channelling money,” this was the NB operator, then the New Ljubljana Bank, “may have successfully survived this transition.” [[…]] And that's what this is all about. He also talked about this, at least about the Ljubljana Bank, the President and the fact that this system could be maintained. Why did he keep it? Of course, one thing for sure is that we had the Presidents of the Peace, Love, Bok government, which is said to be of no use to the deep country or to the village cheerleaders, even they did not threaten the deep country, including the various LDS presidents of governments who shouted around, who set up, for example, or Jankovic them or vice versa, although they probably thought they were pushing Jankovic, they finally realized that he was setting them up and so on. Why is all this possible in this country? Simply because we stayed completely at the beginning of justice. Let me tell you how justice lived in Slovenia immediately after the war. “The fundamental task of the judiciary must be to eliminate political opponents and enemies, not to resolve disputes arising through the application of the law.” That's what this is about today, Your Honor. That's why it's about the arms affair. That's what this is about. Elimination of political opponents. That is why, of course, lawyers are not needed after education, where they can be lawyers, but above all, they were conditioned to be boundlessly committed. So, people were without real education, and the important thing was that they were boundlessly loyal. Then we also had so-called judicial laymen. Let me tell you after the war, when in Ljubljana a number of judges did not act the way the system intended, they were replaced. Do you know anyone? With the tailor, Captain JLA, the messard and one of the workers. And then you became judges. And this system based on Bavcon's, I'm going to say, the dictatorship that is today still exists today. As soon as it's done, and if one of them is dealing with the problems of a deep state, he will sooner or earlier be on the pedestal to make him black and, if possible, he will be liquidated politically, not politically, but as a person, but as politics has done so with people. The justice system has been in the hands of a deep state all the time, and this is still today, so, respectable, we are not and are not dealing with the past. We're talking about the present. But until we resolve these matters, and this is a rakrana, we will, and we will continue to have journalists who will be able to talk about the fascist army, and on the other hand, your greatest allies will be, and that will not be a problem for you. But when someone writes a textbook, literally, that they should have in colleges, in high school, of course, there's a problem for you and dealing with some past that isn't. This is the present, Your Honor. A billion and a half laundered money is now. And we need to talk about that. And in this sense, I thank Levika, and I still hope to receive the answers of Luke Mesca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Rudi Bear has the word, and he will be discussed by Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Apparently, we have two hours of history in a row. I thought we only had our first hour of history when the Prime Minister came along, and it took us a little bit. However, I did not know that in the context of the meeting of the National Assembly and the transmission we also have advertising blocks. I have great respect for the work of Mr Rad Pezdir, but I doubt that he has purchased so many advertising blocks in the context of this meeting of the National Assembly for his book. But I'll talk about the present. This, after these two hours of history, is certainly, of course, about the way in which it is governed, and this was also the purpose of this question of the mission and of today’s debate – about the way in which this government is governed or managed, which is an extremely authoritarian, highly authoritarian government with decisions. The rulings are ruled by authoritarian governments, who do not find contact with civil society, either professionally or with the National Assembly, which is often bypassed every time by these decrees. And what authoritarian ways of ruling are doing is subjugating all social sub-systems. We're talking about affairs. We mentioned them today. We are talking about the present time, the time of the third government of Janez Janša. About the affairs related to the purchase of medical protective equipment, the affairs related to the acquisition of tests. And, of course, we say, because we have law enforcement authorities who need to investigate and process this properly. Do we have a professional inside these law enforcement organs? Yes, we do. Can we be sure that this profession within the law enforcement agencies can also perform its work unhindered? And, of course, we can also be in doubt that the affairs I have previously discussed will be investigated. Can they do their work autonomously and without pressure from criminals, police, prosecutors? What has recently been said by the European chief prosecutor is horrifying. This is exactly like what movie about the mob when it says, and it goes to the Slovenian prosecutors: "The Prosecutors, speak up. You are not alone.” That's scary. That's just scary. And so, of course, we can have legitimate doubts, because of all these pressures, that perhaps these affairs or possible criminal acts within them will not be investigated. When I talk about pressures on social sub-systems, we mention a wide variety of institutions and what is somehow past us is many times the situation in the Slovenian police, about which we need to speak openly and out loud. Because the situation is alarming. The state of the Slovenian police is alarming and must worry us. The police have not only become a leader, but in this good half-second year the term of the ruling policy has become extended. And very deep traces leave politics in the police system. And that is what many employees in the police system themselves are attaching, saying that the situation has never been worse than it is now. And then she wonders about the Home Secretary and asks the Director-General of the Police where that came from. The only thing that's true is that you can't deny it. You can't deny it. And they're setting up some groups within the police to investigate where this kind of data is leaking to the public. From people working in the police system. From people. Not from one, two, five, ten. Of many people who have a state like that of the police now, it is simply unsustainable and they do not remember it throughout the period of Slovenia alone. People will say that. You don't have to set up some groups looking for whistles or I don't know who else. They're gonna have a hard time finding all these people and punishing them. However, it is a systematic staff cleansing and a change in the overall organisational structure of the Slovenian police. And what's the point? The aim is to establish a system that will operate exactly as instructed by the ruling SDS party. That's exactly what I'm saying. Of course it's interesting why they're in such a hurry. It's a few months till the election. And here's the answer, actually, on the palm of your hand. Because by the time of the elections, this system has to work according to the measure of the ruling party - what if this party does not form a future government? And, of course, they can rightly expect this, and therefore within the system they are setting up a human resources structure, which the SDS is counting on to remain loyal to the ruling party no matter what the outcome of the future elections will be. But on the other hand, it could be a very strong obstacle to the normal functioning of the police system in the context of another government. And the SDS party wants to ensure the flow of certain key information on the functioning of the police, whether or not it will form a future government, because they want to maintain the inviolability of key members and their supporters, because more of them are in criminal investigations and the SDS party itself is under investigation. And so the circle is concluded, why this is happening, and why such an urgency is needed, such a nipple. That is why this process of normalisation awaits us after these elections. It'll be heavy, heavy. Just as politics has now been cut into the Slovenian police system, it is, of course, incredible and it will be very difficult, very difficult to fix. Because in key cities, the key management posts in the police are staffed directly by the dictatorship of the ruling policy. They don't have to be party members. We're not talking about that. We are talking about philosophy, thinking and careers waiting for their opportunity, regardless of their professional competences, regardless of the career system within the Police, which is broken. Notwithstanding the fact that such an important element as personnel check, security checks for the employment of someone in the Police simply no longer apply that this does not have any role to play in the system of relocation and employment. Even more, they create them, and they change them. They're changing too. And believe me, I'm not saying this there in one day, because you could also hear it directly some day ago and see it in the testimony on the investigative committee, which are public, people will tell you what's going on. Transfers, discharges usually take place without any explanation, without any justification, but according to the system “it has been decided” because even so many new police chiefs do not have such confidence that the people who move them as chess pieces can honestly tell people why they don’t want them in a particular job anymore, but they always say, “It has been decided. ” Where has it been decided? [[…]] Where was it decided? At another center within politics. This year and a half, longtime police officials have publicly exposed the police's submission to current policies and all manoeuvres to prevent investigations involving representatives of the entire ruling policy or SDS parties. And such an exciting example is the setting up of these working groups, where people move inside of this into some thinking room, and they withdraw the highly qualified personnel and isolate people under pretext, let's say they're solving migration problems or setbacks in the police, but it's personal degradation of these people. While the Director-General of the Police mocks to the extent that he says that these people, who are experts and who have worked in very responsible jobs, are very excited and see new challenges, how - because they are mostly all moved to Tacen - they are raising new police personnel, which is, of course, a complete non-reality. Just because you're in Tacno doesn't mean you're teaching there; only one of those ex-police chiefs is teaching there. If I move on. Speaking of obstructing and impeding a wide variety of criminal investigations, which is obvious. If the head of the investigation investigating the suspicious acquisition of protective equipment in the case of the Minister of Economic Affairs is withdrawn and placed in the working group in the middle of the investigation, I think that this case is for backlogs or migrations, since it is not as important if this happens within the National Investigation Office, then of course it cannot lead us to any other belief than that it is an obvious obstruction or obstruction of the investigation. And after this political governance, and finally the National Bureau of Investigation is also politically controlled, of course for the government and the SDS party this is of paramount importance, because it is the National Investigation Office, from which some criminals were then withdrawn from these working groups, that is to say, they investigated you for the government or the party of the SDS's most painful cases. This is the reality that is happening before our eyes when we are talking about the present, when we are talking about how this government is managed by the state or by the government coalition. And that's what we need to worry about. And, of course, that's what people are worried about. People also see this, from where else would this mistrust of the Slovenian police have fallen so drasticly in this half-second year. People just don't trust it, and it's not the cops' fault, it's not the 8,000 cops' fault. There are several ten guilty people who in these leading places have completely removed the ruling politicians, completely that the CEOs are under this government, three of whom are now or are now third, actually puppets in the hands of the ruling policy. And that's what people see. And it is no wonder that this sad decline in confidence in the Slovenian police, the police, which is based, of course, a service for citizens and this is what people employed in the Police are aware of. We are dealing with some click on the leadership positions, but of course it has fully adapted and removed the ruling policy and philosophy of government control through the repression of the SDS party. And we need to worry about that right now. And, of course, we must also be concerned that such situations within the Police may create doubts that certain corruption or any other use or affair will not be properly explored as long as this government is in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word, and Iva Dimic will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry my colleague Bah Gibert wasn't here asking about Luke Mess. I'll try to answer what I have to say. First question. Here today we are discussing corruption, which means tens of millions, hundreds of millions of suspicious transactions, and here a colleague wonders why Luka Moon had coffee with Kordez in public space for everyone to see. And I think that Mr. Cordège is probably not some grumpy person that you don't sit with and drink coffee with. If Luka Moon had something to hide, he probably wouldn't be sitting in a public space outside the gallery, but he would be hiding, like, Ambassador Franz Breznik, who went incognito to visit King Derby Banan, the cocaine king Derby Banan, who was finally in the NPU investigation, which I will talk about later. And today we know that he did not go there for the onions and bananas, but it is obvious that Mr Rastoder is one of the main financiers of Nova24TV. Documents just reveal that Novi24TV has already donated 122 000 euros of money. It's your business. And Mr. Beznik was there incognito. And if the police hadn't stopped him a little bit on the road, we wouldn't know today that Mr. Breznik was at the office of King Derby Banan of Cocaine. And now you're all going to be talking about Luke Moon in front of the Modern Gallery, having coffee in public with someone who's been staying with him, and he's not supposed to be some hot person. And that has nothing to do with corruption. Because this is exactly your problem – the caller of today’s session is Levica, who you really can’t hang, either, that we are Udbomafians, or that we are associated with any corruption. That's your problem. But what am I trying to say? I want to say that this society has obviously been plagued by corruption and customerism, which we do not approve of, regardless of which government it has been in power, does not mean that if this has happened before, it can only happen now or it will happen in the future. And we're trying to talk about this, that these practices are trying to cut their wings, that this society is starting to fight such phenomena, not to say, ah, because they used to steal, because it's not a problem, and you don't deny it at all, but you're talking about some past. In short, if it didn't smell like corruption, customerism, and if you wanted to, even the mafia government of the country, then in the Police and the National Investigation Office, there wouldn't be a brutal sweeping of big scales right in front of our eyes on the basis of some sort of lustration law on police organisation and work. There would not be such a mass transfer of high-level criminals, high-level personnel to Tacen or some kind of criminal working group where these movers don't even know what to do in those so-called quiet rooms. No one checks them either, no one evaluates their work, no one explains what they're doing to us there. In short, they are there because they are withdrawn or, as the Prime Minister has said today, because they are excluded from the system; because they are on the periphery of the system because they are threatening the current government because they know too much. And in short, there are not only those who are not loyal to the SDS, but unfortunately people, top criminalists or police chiefs, even unionists, because they simply hope to say something out loud or because they know too much. And then they're threatened by the termination of their working relationship, they're threatened by Twitter, by the Prime Minister, through the minister, to the Director General of the Olai Police. For example, the minister gives the unionists a whiff of Twitter: sloths, start working. I mean, of course, it's not innocent or it's just random to pretend that we understand each other, and it's not some kind of slip. These tweets are strictly purposeful, their purpose is clear. It's about intimidation, it's about political subjugation in the police, it's about silence for everyone who knows too much, and they're therefore at risk. And in this way, corrupt business is protected, respected and respected. First, you arrange this at the National Investigation Office and in the Police Department — where crimes are usually investigated. Isn't it? Of course, that's why it doesn't happen exactly at the NPU and exactly at the police station. That's how you stop the investigations that you want them gone. And this actually started immediately after this government's appearance. I understand that any government will replace the Director-General or the Director-General of the Police. That's what every government has done. But it started a little different. Following a rapid procedure, the director of the National Investigation Office, Darko Muženič, was released illegally. You're supposed to be an official CEO, but you're not. It's not simple. And why? Interestingly, under his leadership, the office launched an investigation into suspected irregularities in the acquisition of protective equipment in late April. Under the leadership of the Husband. And then he was suspended without explanation. Therefore, the decision is made on its own. These are circumstantial evidence, respected and respected. When trials are under way in court, you have direct evidence and you have circumstantial evidence, and these evidences are circumstantial, but clear indications are why this is happening. In order to stop investigations into people who are either close to the SDS party or in the interest of this government coalition, let's say to prevent the investigation of Roko Snezič, as we have heard from the former Prime Minister's prison roommate and personal friend, the current director of the NPU and Minister Snežič and so on. Who decided to replace Director Male? The husband doesn't know. We're teaching in Tacno now. In Tacno, where many other top-notch criminals and criminals were found. Some are appointed to the so-called Migration Working Groups or to resolve backlogs. That's where we put top-notch personnel today, when there's not enough of these personnel in the police. David Antolovič, Assistant Director of the NPU, and Head of Investigations at the NPU Igor Kekec, who, most interestingly, are still officially sitting in their seat, but no longer doing this work. And when, on the board, an investigator who is a public broadcaster on television, you won't say that I'm publishing classified information, we ask who's doing it now, we don't get a clear answer, respected and respected. There's a lot of evasiveness and a lot of scheming, but these two don't do it anymore, even though they've done it. With regard to the alleged list of so-called shootings on which the disruptive employees were supposed to have been transferred to Tacen, Antolovič said at the investigative commission that he had received a personal warning, I quote: “Let him look after himself because he is at the top.” End of story. In such a country we live, respected and respected. And then we listen to how the country used to be like that and drive people out of the system. Today we've heard an hour of history about this, but nothing about what's going on right now. And scary things happen. None of these people get an explanation of why they're being expelled from the system, as Prime Minister Janša would say, no one. These Witnesses also spoke about a number of NPU controls that were listed in a very short time. According to Antolovic, these controls literally hoarded the work of the National Investigation Office, as they were running out of time, logically, in explaining their past work. It also confirmed the former NPU Director Lekoš, who warned that within two months there were as many as three controls at the NPU, which is the same number of controls as since the entire start of the NPU operation. Imagine. Of course, Leprechaun gave up because he couldn't handle it, and he didn't agree with the transfer of staff, say, criminalist Antolovič to Tacen. Antolovič also explained in the investigator that the first supervision was, be careful, the first control determined — when? Precisely on the day of the investigative activities concerning the purchase of protective equipment, when NPU criminals carried out a house investigation with Minister of Economy Zdravko Počvalska. Right on that day, Your Honor! Any coincidences or no incidents? It's all just cases and coincidences. Of course, the investigation into alleged irregularities in the purchase of medical fans purchased by the state from Geneplanet was notified in advance – we know this because Nova24TV published this one day earlier – and also refused to unlock the phone, said criminalist Kekec. The phone was forced to be sent to Germany, of course wasting valuable time in the investigation and so on, in the meantime the removal of Antolovič took place, so that everything was taken care of. What's going to happen to this phone? We don't know. In view of Janša's recruitment to the NPU, it is likely that the phone will mysteriously disappear or that all key information from this phone will be mysteriously deleted. That's how it is, respectable and respected. Who's investigating Restoration today? I don't know, really, do I? Kekec also replied, of course, to a question concerning the assumption that the tax optimisation expert Rožič was informed in advance of the house investigation. V. d. Director of the NPU Petra Grah Lazar, who received this place in the middle of the ongoing invitation to tender when three others signed up - we do not know how this is possible - a woman who personally told me that she had written more than no criminal charges, that she was not running statistics, but that she was probably more than one. Well, this woman today is the director of the NPU and a friend of Snezic. Although she withdrew from the investigation, Kekce's words about the house investigation meant that she should have known she was the director. And what she said, he said, if she said, there could be only conjecture, speculation, of course we don't know, but circumstantial evidence, respected and respected, connections, connections, relationships, that she knew, they say a lot. Kekec also said that he had not yet been subjected to such pressure and interference in his professional work in his career, as was the case with the house investigations last June. And you're going to say it doesn't smell like corruption, customerism, and mafia government? I mean, this is a clear example of what's happening right now, why it's happening, what's trying to hide and so on. It's something to talk about, respectable and respected, not about 1994, but I don't know about some deep country, but udbomafia, but I don't know what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic has the word, and she's going to be discussed by the mag. Andrei Reich. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Indeed, today I have listened to all the views, now two or three debates, I must say that things are simply really worrying. [[…]] Why? Because in fact, in order to have effective prosecution, we need, of course, an effective criminal procedure, the active role of detection and prosecution authorities, procedural discipline, the conduct of trials without delay, the repetition of individual acts and the repeal of decisions, the consistent enforcement of penalties and other sanctions. And for all of this, we already have everything in law. Unfortunately, only performance is not right. And here I must say that all of this would be the easiest to get to the bottom of, of course, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. For 10 years I have wondered why we cannot enforce this law in Slovenia. Why is it written to protect some? Why is it written in such a way that, finally, in ridicule, if I may say so, the Balkan warrior goes through this sieve? I'm sure if we had a marriage that was good enough to fit in all the articles, we'd get to the bottom of things. Last but not least, what you're talking about is corruption, mob, financial crime, property. Where the property is of illicit origin, proceedings shall be initiated. Is that why Serbia could have done this? Why could Italy do this? Why could Croatia and other countries finally do this? In Slovenia alone, this law is practically not implemented. Very bad, with very few consequences. Indeed, Slovenia is far behind in this area. Remarkable examples such as the Balkan warrior are called to heaven. Millions and millions of euros have been lost and there are no culprits. Who does that suit? It was said that we were going too far into history. Look, laundering Iranian money is not history. That's not history. The commission of inquiry has come to the bottom of this. When I look, really, Rado Pezdir wrote down a lot of things, but the prologue from parallel banking from the year, that's page 30, you can look at it, it describes exactly how in 1979 in Iran there was an Islamic revolution, how things changed then. And of course, because they had the embargo, through the Ljubljana Bank they then came to the Swiss banks. This is described and there are papers for it. By 1968, the Ljubljana Bank had created a parallel banking system under Niko Kovacic, with the mechanism being key to the functioning of the market, precisely the accounts opened by the Ljubljana Bank to various Swiss banks. It describes everything. We're probably living in a parallel system right now. And therefore there is no interest in having a well-functioning Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. We could step on everyone's fingers and look at it, but a deep country that certainly comes out of the former system is not in the interest. However, only words and advance convictions of people and the defending and strengthening of the rule of law with a fig in their pocket do not lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. At one point, I very much agree with colleague Dimic that we should have a functioning law on the seizure of illegally acquired property. I'd like to remind my colleague who broke this marriage. The SDS proposed an amendment whereby the period during which such acquired assets would be determined after the tax procedure from 1991 onward, which was unconstitutional and the article has been repealed, is why we now have a law that does not have an article which sets a period and is therefore invalid, cannot be applied. Why such an amendment has been proposed, which has been made clear in advance, to put this law in very serious danger, is probably a rhetorical issue. However, if we could apply this law, it would be very likely that the Prime Minister of the Government would be the first to return the Volvos and any apartments in the centre of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Vatovec, I said you don't serve such matters, which are inconclusive and non-document-proof. That's what the other organs are for. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, he'll get the word Marijan Pojbich behind him. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Indeed, things are worrying and we are also witnessing in this National Assembly the disintegration and destruction of the reputation of state institutions, and some Members on the right are beginning to be very vehement and shameless. The service of rhetoric, that is, right-wing rhetoric, as we have it in the United States of America, false elections, false courts, false media, false news, it all came to us from the United States of America. And this right-hand, right-hand option is used persistently and consistently to create mistrust, anger, fear among people and to somehow consolidate them when they repeat the same cases, remember the demonstrations before the courts, remember the attacks on the media, remember the attacks on the prosecution that are also taking place in this institution, remember the attacks on the judges. These are things that are unworthy of this place, and yet they happen. And we need to discuss this so that these things are no longer repeated. As we go on, we're talking about history and pointing our finger back, it's good to look back, that is, 1991. I have nothing against it, even though I don't know why we're going back so far, especially since the same Prime Minister of the Government, who is the party's president, has always been making sacrifices in all the affairs that are coming to him, and he's never done anything wrong, they're always guilty of everything else. So I'm just going to name a few names, i.e. lawyer Matos, dr. Rok Snezič, igor Bavčar, boško Šrot, Hilda However, Robert Èesar, Andrej Lušin, we're talking about the first arms affair that's out of date, and we're talking about the Patria affair that's out of date, and we're talking about selling Mercator in the government's office. Remember that Mercator was injured at the time because of the Officer Delo, remember the theft in Luka Koper, when the director, also a member of the ruling party, is abroad, and the damage to Intereurope in the construction of the logistics centre of Čehovo is 140 million, and those who participated do not allow them to look into the current account abroad. These are the things that make things difficult. And not picking up written invitations from the court. These are cases of degradation and abuse of the judiciary. When we speak to a deep country, let us not forget, after all, the Istrabenz amounting to EUR 1 billion in debt and essentially the sold-out hotel industry. Let's not forget the bank hole. The bank hole that was created between 2004 and 2008 and no one was punished, as Czernigoj correctly established, and the five billion needed to be paid for it. Remember Bell 1, Bell 2, T2, Vegrad, the church barons. And let us not forget the direct instructions of the then President of the Government to the administrations of these banks. No one was responsible for these acts, no one took responsibility, no more, certain actors from those times are moving around, and they say yes, and we have not created such a hole. Here I'm going to give a very vivid comparison - a lot of happy people forget how much they drank, and then the next morning, after the bill and the drink, they get a headache, and they pretend they don't drink so much, why his head hurts so much. And of course, when we talk about these things, we need to look at them more broadly, and we need to say bob beans and act in a way that respects the institutions, the countries we have set up. In this National Assembly we are witnessing constant attacks on the judiciary, we are witnessing constant attacks on the prosecution, we are witnessing attacks on the media, we are witnessing accounts against everything we disagree with, in a way that is unworthy and disrespectful of the National Assembly, and only with one goal, building mistrust in all state subsystems and destroying what generations have created for many years. And when people no longer have confidence in the system, then this system is gone and there is chaos. To reason that this is a good thing is, of course, a perverted and unworthy act. We have problems that have been solved, thank God. We are talking about the fact that judicial proceedings are now taking place within the deadline. Complaints to the Court of Justice of the European Union are virtually gone. And to say that we have first-class, second-class, that it is allowed to deal with judges, even in the National Assembly, what to name, comment on specific procedures, of course this is not a real journey, and this should be done once. The clarification of views from past events, which have no causal link, raises many questions. What does the 1968 banking system have to do with today’s problems and challenges, i.e. the present, when a colleague Dimic began to read? What does this have to do with, I mean, what is the purpose of trying to communicate and justify things like this? You know, that's just disrespectful. This is disrespectful to citizens and leads exclusively to one goal – the destruction of state subsystems and the construction of mistrust. We must be aware that we have one base of voters, especially on the right-hand side, who want to hear that they are being wronged, and they are looking for someone who points to the alleged culprit with his finger, while setting up a policy without any justification to invent the culprit and justify their position. And that's just not right. Czernigoj also spoke in his position about bank goons. These people have been exonerated by the one who has devalued their assets into negative depths. Those people let you down. They have been decommissioned by those who have decommissioned and devalued their assets into negative depths. Remember, the bank already had negative capital at the time of privatisation in view of the European Commission's decision, i.e. capital that had no value, and the then government sold it to them at a fictitious value, twice the fictitious value. This was a place for citizens and citizens! And passing on a bank hole [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Comrade Montenegro, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	whether it was too large or too small, knowledge of the consequences and depth is essentially the manoeuvre of one party who wants to cover its responsibility in this way. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I propose that you follow the respectful discussions of fellow Members. There are still many options for discussion. Buddy Reich, just two things. Patria is obsolete in the Supreme Court, probably in order not to proceed with the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights. We know that. [[advertising from the hall]] Secondly, when you talk about banks, you must also take into account that Alenka Bratušek was also the supervisor of the New Bank of Maribor during that period. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural mag. Andrei Reich. Comrade Soniboj Knezak, if you want a word, please apply to the debate, to the word, to the motion for a procedure or whatever. Comrade Reich [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Soniboy the Prince, I give you a warning. Here you go, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	I'm replicating your position. The bank hole was created between 2004 and 2008, Mrs Bratušek was the supervisor in 2011. As far as Patrie is concerned, the culprits were found in Austria and clearly pointed to Slovenia as well as to the then Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	In the case of Patrie in Slovenia, the Court found that some other people are guilty because we have two Patricias. In this case, it was an indictory judgment that had no basis, so it probably did not. At that time, he was the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Masles, who allowed this process to be outdated. Procedurally, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Dear Vice President, we have just seen a colleague of the Reich replicated to you. As I saw in the traffic light and we also have a list of debaters, you didn't discuss it. I don't think you have that right either. You are commenting on the discussions of the other debaters from the chair, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Now let me explain how you could have had a few minutes of substantive debate from the chair of the meeting of the assembly and on this basis have also allowed Comrade Reich a replica of this. His time was running for his parliamentary group, your parliamentary group, due to your intervention, a double intervention, did not lose a minute. And that's irregular. I am really asking you to interpret – this is also my procedural proposal – and I also ask you to stop doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	First of all, my fellow Reich had a procedural proposal. If there's been a mistaking of time, then it's a mistake because I also said he has a procedural proposal. And time runs also in the case of a procedural proposal and is not counted in the quota. Secondly, I am holding a meeting and to some things that are incorrect, I can also point out as chairman. I didn't have a discussion, I just warned you that some of the things that my colleague Reich was talking about were incorrect in this part. We continue the debate. Marijan Pojbič has the word, and he will be given the word Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to remind you once again that you are colleagues and colleagues sitting in the National Assembly, reading this book written by Mr Pezdir. I think it would be very important that you read it to get a little bit of width about what's right, what's wrong, what's wrong, what's wrong with the Mafia, what's not the Mafia, what's what's parallel power, and so on. And I also recommend this book to all citizens and citizens who are watching this debate right now. Colleagues discussed, among other things, how we, when we are discussing the Mafia power today, the Mafia country and so on, associate it with our brief past. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that the key to the problems and the core of the problems, all that is happening to this parallel country, with this criminal association in our society, is that we have not performed lustration in addition to independence. If we did that then the situation in our country today would be the same as that in a medium-sized democratic state. And because it wasn't possible to perform the lustration, today we have problems like these. And why am I saying this? I'll give you at least two, three, four things. First of all, we're talking about the fact that, if you remember, when we conquered ourselves, Kučan allowed the disarming of the Territorial Defense. It is said that someone who is already extremely exposed in this society has been a very important person and Slovenia is not his own private option. Then we also talked about Jozet Mencinger today. When he was talking about when we were lonely, we were going to eat Slovenian weed if we were going to win. So the other person who lives well in our society, who is definitely involved in the Forum 21 team and so on, is one that Slovenia was not an intimate option for him. And then when we look at the matter ahead, I'm gonna drop some things because I don't have a lot of time, but I have to point out the Patricia affair. As regards the Patria affair, it was clear that our President, the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the current President of the Government had been imprisoned unlawfully. It is against the law because the Constitutional Court has decided that everything that has been done has not been in accordance with the law and that the case against the President of the party has fallen before the Constitutional Court. True, it took eight years. Eight years of attacks on the Slovenian Democratic Party, eight years of attacks on our President and so on. At the same time, this, I will say, non-democratic power, I think that another member of the Members and Members is sitting in this Parliament, has taken away the mandate, legally elected mandate. If I continue, it also happened to France Kangler when his mandate was taken away from him in the State Council. But I don't know how many charges were filed against him. They all fell. Is that what you're talking about? It's not a mob country? And who was in power then? Isn't that a mafia state for you? So, double criteria, one for the other, not the other. Do you remember the murder of Ivan Kramberger? When preparations for the national elections were under way, the list showed him about 25%. [[advertising from the hall]] It's connected when we're talking about the Mafia country. That's the theme. And then they killed him because they knew that at that time the democratic forces that were and who were running in those elections would gather together a two-thirds majority and it would be possible to carry out the lustration. It was easier and to the extreme limit damaged to liquidate Ivan Kramberger. Shameful! And you're saying it doesn't work in the background of a corrupt mob country. Then not to mention the sale of New KBM, Ljubljana Airport, all major companies in Maribor, Helios, not to mention the alleged places in Talum, Peru's Ptuj, Mura, Murska Sobota, about SCT Zidar, which never happened to him. We hear many times about the surnames of Zemljaric, Isajlović, Jankovic. Remember Mercator's sale, the Stožica project, where because of the default of certain obligations, even the entrepreneur committed suicide? And nothing happened. More than that, evidence is being destroyed for the untouchable. You remember Mr. Novič - proof that he's innocent. They tried to lock him up anyway. The question is, what was going on at the institute, why was he convicted of being a killer? And in the end, it's proven that it wasn't. Who is it? It's a mafia state. To talk about how left-wing authorities used budget money – mainly for NGO studies, prestige, yachts, villas, private pockets, to write off debts that are untouchable and so on and so on. But since I said I have little time, now I'm going to try to tell you what this government is doing differently. The current government and coalition are investing in people, the health system, the social system, homes for the elderly, the economy, pensioners, rising pensions, rising wages, more investment in education, science, sport, infrastructure, the military and, of course, could still be listed. If I conclude, this government is working from people to people and there is no way for a criminal association, i.e. a mafia, parallel, corrupt and misleading structure that is trying to rule from the background. Dear colleagues and colleagues, believe me, the government of Janez Janša and this coalition that now runs this country will never allow this, precisely because of this, to this government and this coalition is such an abnormal pressure. We're being convicted of attacking the media, attacking the judges. And if you look at the diary, POP TV, A channel and so on, go see who's attacking someone. Inadmissible, 85 percent of all media have left-wing structures at your disposal and under control. And under control. And you're trying to tell us that we're pressing the media and the judicial branch of the authorities that are making these decisions that I've talked about before. And then here we see what are the double criteria and what is the power of those who have to this point practically control everything from the background, except when the government of Janez Janša and Janez Janša appears to you as the president of this government, who step on your toes. This government and this coalition not only will bring this mandate to an end and bring this country to democracy, it will also win the next elections and bring this country to where it belongs - among the highly economically developed countries in Europe and in the world. I therefore greatly appreciate this coalition and this government, and I am also a member of this coalition and this government. I'm proud of what we do, what we do for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has Carmen Cosmos Ferrjan, to prepare Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I regret to note that today's debate, earlier in its views, has seen this go only in a certain direction, without any real evidence. In recent months, there has been a very current reference to constitutional rights, which is true that we have constitutional rights to be aware of, but many times forget constitutional duties. And it is my constitutional duty not to interfere with the constitutional rights of someone else. Today, we see that everyone can interfere with the constitutional rights of John Janša, even deny them to him; he can be muddy; he can be put in his mouth; he can be accused; even in the role of a judge, he can be accused. Janez Janša is a man with his rights and duties, but you let him go to the National Assembly today, I don't know, as if he were an object without rights. He tells you something, answers you, but you don't hear anything because you have in your head what you set out to do, and you go his words across one ear into another, out the other. Today we have also heard many mentions of the name Rock Snezič. Sometimes you feel like you're dreaming about the Snowman at night and you're dreaming about Janez Janša in the daytime. All of a sudden, one and the same. You even say: “A consultant for your government's tax policy, Mr Rok Snezič”. And then the Prime Minister answers, Snow is not my tax advisor, not my tax advisor to the government. But nobody hears that. They don't want to hear it. Look, I really doubt that Roz Snowman would be playing counsellor for free. Probably, if you were a consultant, you'd have a contract. With it, you would wave, the media would wave, and probably Mr Snow White himself. Then let's move on. If I were rude, I could also ask the proposer because he said that Rok Snezič spoke in Bosnia, that he was the advisor to the Prime Minister of the Government. You could ask him what he was doing with Rock Snow in Bosnia, that he heard it because we didn't hear it. Look, we all know there's a lot of talk about public figures, both about John Janša and about you, as well as about all of us. But that doesn't mean that everything is true, as we hear it. And sometimes you have to use a filter and decide what's true, what's wrong, a little use of a healthy farmer's mind. As far as the proposer is concerned, all the time, maybe someone will think I'm overreacting now, but I always think of him as a cultural speaker, a cultural person who is highly educated. And today I'm very disappointed at the debate in terms of Baba's hearing, Grandma said. Corruption and the Mafia are indeed a problem, and he has opened up a good subject, but he has brought the wrong defendant, the wrong person, before us. But he forgot about the real mafia business. He did not mention any opposition to the independence, not the disarmament of the Territorial Defence, not the ventricles and not the laundering of money through the NLB. If we and all of us spent the five hours we have to discuss the real problems, we might be able to find the right solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, ready to be Mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. We've heard quite a few things today. Of course, logical, classical defense by colleagues from SDS, quite understandable. And warming up new, new, new stories we've heard 100 times. That's why I played a little game to start my debate with Wikipedia and actually looked at who the gentleman we're talking about today is, or why we're actually talking about the subject we're talking about today. I will quote what Wikipedia says: “Janez Ivan Janša in 1975, ” that was two years after I was born, so I was two years old, “as a 17-year-old youth he joined the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia and was the youngest member of the party in Grosuplje. [[…]] This year he attended a party school in Kumrovec. He was a Fellow of Titov, President of the Municipal Organisation of the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia, member of the Municipal Committees of the Socialist Association of the Working People of Slovenia, member of the Republic and Federal Authorities of the ZSMS and the SZDL. In 1977, as one of the most promising party personnel in his environment, Ivo Lola Ribar led the first squad of the youth brigade in Bosnian Eggs. End of story. And then he to me, who was then two years old, and LMŠ, which of course was not there at the time, about the communists. It would be funny if it wasn't sad. But unfortunately it's more sad than funny, fellow SDS, which is funny to you now, what I'm saying. And I believe that's when [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Your Honor, I interrupt. Dear colleagues! Let us be respectful, respecting the rules of procedure and also our code of conduct that we have adopted. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for calming down your colleagues. And I even believe that when the gentleman was doing this, he also believed in all those ideals. And I don't even understand why he's denying it now. I don't understand that at all. But okay, people decide what we decide. And then for the next 30 years, of course, it revolves around Slovenian politics in one way or another and plays the victims. For 30 years now, the game has been played by the victims and for 30 years everyone else has been guilty of what is happening to the gentleman in question. And then, if Wikipedia continues to be read, the Independent also sees it as an extremely right-wing leader, which he has also developed into. And one can also read that this party promotes intolerance and advocates authoritarian approaches, which we actually feel in the last year and a half in this country. And then all this anger has been on the fritz for 30 years, and we're going to get warm, and we're going to get warm. Today, too, we have received an hour of history, which is basically nothing wrong if a person remembers a little history. Now it is a question of who interprets this history and how it interprets it. However, the distinguished President of the Government, who is not here of course, is today, unfortunately, not interested in Communists or in patriots, partisans, nor in all the theories of conspiracy that have or have not been, nor in the wise thoughts of the President of the Government, nor in the thinking of this President of the Government at this time. Most young people don't care. However, they wonder whether they will be able to study whether schooling in this country will be available to all for free or publicly available. That's what they're interested in. They want to know if they're going to get quality knowledge, if they're going to get enough skills to get to a permanent job so they don't have to be reprimands. That's what young people are interested in today. Not the patriots, but the partisans, all the affairs, the things that happened or didn't happen. Young people today also wonder if they will be able to buy apartments so that they will not have to be credited for 35 years and their parents are mortgages on what to give. That's what they're interested in. Are they going to be able to create a family that they can maintain, that's what they're going to be interested in. Whether they can, I don't know, travel, hang out with their cookbook friends, ask them if they can write down what they think, or if they can also say what they think, and so they won't lose their jobs or be transferred to some criminal battalion, in their notes, or if they can defend their professional positions and decisions in their services and do not lose their jobs. They also want to know how their grandchildren are going to live, how their grandchildren are going to repay all this pouf that has accumulated in this year and a half, and all this pouf, which has already been announced with approved budgets. That's what they're interested in, how much will be taken out of their pockets so they can live. Young people are also interested in how they are actually going to pay off all these puffs and all the candy you share before the elections, especially those that support this coalition, Members of Desus, Members of the SNS and minorities. That's what they're interested in. They're not interested in patriots or partisans or imaginary affairs. Young people also want to know how to deal with the environment in which they want to live, of course, in a healthy environment. And of course, they are interested in their children living in a healthy environment. That's what they're interested in. Young people don't care at this point how you want to submit to schools and obviously reintroduce a new religion. They don't even care that they're obviously trying to ban their abortion. They don't care about that either. They are also not interested as patriotic content that you want to introduce to schools. They don't even care how you want to set up new ones, because they don't care because they're traumas that you've been doing for so many years and so many years, you've been pulling on the road and making some kind of affair out of them. People today, if you ask them on the street today what they're interested in, they won't tell you that today in Slovenia it's so cool that they barely want to move back to Slovenia those young people who have already moved. Because they feel it every day on their skin and because they see it and because they can read it. If we just look at all the attacks on the media that took place during the time of this government, I will not now list all of this how this government is accounting with the public media. I'm not even going to talk about more than a year's non-payment of the STA, or RTV, which you and the last MVK have completely subordinated. I will not even talk about those changes in media legislation when you gave a public debate in that three- or five-day summer because it is clear to everyone that the media must remain independent. As it is clear to all that the government must ensure and must ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the STA. This is clear to every Slovenian, except apparently some percentage that supports everything you do. If we just look at what was happening at that time with self-employed people in culture, if we start talking about tangible measures to restore culture, if we talk about the financial blockade of Slovenian film, if we talk about human resources cleaning in museums and ignoring the professional public, then we actually see what the modus operandi of this government is or, if I say, the largest government party that is loyal to it and, of course, the remainder of the SMC, or how they are now renamed, who are now loyal to the weakening of all these and educational conditions connected to the profession, in all those substitutes, to say, human resources replacements that have occurred, even though people have no adequate competence to even occupy such jobs. By the way, it's just the latest data from the last government meeting, 9. 12. Do you know how many new appointments there have been? New appointments? A thousand 345. Of course, it's a brutal recruitment. A thousand and a half in a year and a half. But you've seen 275 changes to the government of Marian Charz. But it's always everybody else's fault, everyone else, only the biggest client ever did anything. And I'm not going to list any other purchases of protective equipment or any good golf. I'm not even going to talk about more than 5,000 500 dead because it was too late to react or to the wrong response at the time of the epidemic. Today, we can read that criminals are investigating or conducting housework or any investigation into the acquisition of rapid antigenic tests. And those toilet paper masks, if you remember them. And all the changes that happened at the police station. On the other hand, on delegated prosecutors, on the other hand, on unnamed state prosecutors, on systemic corruption in all subsystems. That we don't even mention scandalous ministers or inaction. That we don't even start talking about the education that I'm covering a little bit more and everything that's been going on in this area, because then we're not going to finish this session in two hours, but we're going to be here for two days or more. In short, how important this session is. How important it is to talk about non-compliance with the profession when making decisions. How important it is to talk about incompetent people called just one goal. How important it is to talk about the way this government communicates — that we do not even start listing those tweets again — and about all the things we read and where the international public is surprised and ashamed of us. Because the goal of this government is indeed, obviously, alone – it is that people would no longer believe anyone to throw everything in the same basket, if, all of you are the same, all of you went into politics because you had nothing to do before, all of you went into politics to take advantage, and all of you are corrupt. But we're not all the same. We're not all rotten. Neither are we all who have nothing to do before, which we have not done before, and we have shown nothing. That is why I want the people who are now following us to see the difference between those who constantly claim to be guilty of everything else, what the current government is doing, and those who have been willing to take responsibility for mistakes as well. And there's a difference between us and you, if you want. I want people to see this because I don't want us to be completely responsible for everything that this government should take responsibility for, but not taking it, guilty of the opposition, then guilty of the protests, then guilty of the crimes, then guilty by the press, then guilty by non-governmental organizations, then guilty by the unionists of the Short, all the others, only those who are really guilty, and they are never guilty of anything. [[…]] That's what a five-year-old boy sees. And then the rhetoric that we received here today: “The Mafia's left-wing guessing has happened in this country.” I mean, I don't understand how you don't want to see that 60% of people just don't approve that they just don't like it, that they want to have a nice, normal life, serve, go to work, do whatever they want, go on vacation where they can afford it, and live up to their values and opportunities. It's so simple. I really don't understand how you can't see what people are telling you all the time. I don't understand why you can't hear people. And I don't understand why you don't want to take responsibility for your mistakes. Your Honor, there is no good atmosphere in this country right now. People have a suitcase full of everything, according to your household. You will now vote PKP10 for the i point and possibly force them to be vaccinated. I would like this government to find out that it makes mistakes and goodbyes, because it will be good for our grandchildren, so they won't have to pay for these poofs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would only suggest that you warn the Member of Parliament or that we stick to the topic of today's agenda. The theme is completely different from what we have just heard. The agenda should be read, which item is on the agenda and then discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is not an interpellation of the government or a pre-election campaign, but it is a completely different point. I have not heard a single sentence about this topic, which is today. If we're all gonna do this, then we can just, I don't know, discuss everything long and hard and waste taxpayers' time and money here. That is why it is, as I have heard from the debate, that people have only half the suitcase. Of course, if they're listening to this, I'm not surprised they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Member, for your procedural proposal. If you have listened carefully, the Member has been turning around all the time, or a little more broadly, about the topic that we are dealing with today. But it was wide open. Mag. Dejan Kaloh has a word to prepare for Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	Chairman, thank you. From the judicial eggs we have come to the Bosnian egg, as we have heard earlier with the MEP LMSH. I estimate that citizens have seen once more what the opposition is doing for the nation. In fact, nothing, but for your burkas, as we can see, quite a bit. This Member, who is no longer here, said how important this meeting is. If we really were to talk seriously about corruption and the alleged mafia governance of the country, there would be a whole bunch of people sitting in here on the opposition's side right now. Now we see three Members sitting there: Mr Koražija, Mr Pavšič and Mr Medved, who also came in five minutes ago. Where is that seriousness of yours about these subjects? We don't see her on this side. Also, what colleague Doblekar warned, Lidija Dijak Mirnik in 18 minutes practically did not talk about this topic. So at least keep the darkness in this respect if you are no longer here for more than one tarok. However, as regards mafia receptions, mafia governance, mafia manoeuvres - these are actually difficult words that have now been addressed to this current government on your part, but I still estimate that this will then always turn to the bearers of such debates, in this case, of course to this extreme left, to Cardelian Social Democracy and to the state administration of really incompetent LMŠ and SAB. In order to do something for people, we have entered politics, Member LMŠ said in the opening presentation, but the facts, see, are indeed different. For the people, for the people, the government of Marian Sharca has done virtually nothing. That's what the polls show. You're actually supported by 4% of the people. We saw that in yesterday's poll. On the contrary, the third Janša government has done huge things for all segments of the population in all areas. In fact, despite the severe coronary crisis, citizens live better, pensions and salaries are growing, economic growth is increasing, and unemployment is actually the lowest since 2008. So here in your reign you've really done a bit of fighting. I was there a month ago when Prime Minister Janez Janša answered that initial question by Dr. Vatovec that the central problems we have still take root in that half-time when these parallel mechanisms, as we now now call them, were concerned by the udbomafia, and in fact without any elections, without legitimacy you still control all or most of the subsystems. It's that left-wing thing, if you can say, Mafia governance with the state, that without some legal leverage, you're not even being pulled in the background. We have already heard something in the context of this mafia governance with the country, what has happened in the last 30 years, if you will, with the mafia sabotage since the beginning of this country's creation. We've heard of that quiet agreement of Kucan's when the territorial defence was disarmed in May 1990. I say that these were then some basis for later really real udbomafi work through all the systems of the country, which was then created a year later. As I come from Maribor alone, I am also pleased that this mafia arms trade has been mentioned in previous discussions. In 1993, 130 tons of infantry were found at the Maribor airport, and then the then defence minister warned current Prime Minister Janez Janša of those works and in 1996 the court ruled that the actual words of the then defence minister were credible information. I believe that some actors were already greatly threatened by these Janša statements, and this, of course, continues until today. I also believe that at the time, Milan Kučan’s pants were shaking heavily, which, of course, was familiar with this infantry weapon at the Maribor airport. Here you can see where this root is in the early '90s. In his presentation of the SDS position, our leader of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Krivec, also mentioned the Patria affair, which, of course, we can characterise as a typical mafia work. I wrote two sold-out books about this affair. It is clear here that this was a politically-mounted trial, because it was more than obvious that the merger of the court and the prosecution. My colleague Reich was saying that it's all out of date. Here, for example, he was deceiving this because in April 2015 the Constitutional Court annulled all those criminal and illegal judgments. Just like in the '90s, we're pulling a parallel here. Political liquidation, of course, to call this class enemy number one — Mr Janša was in the focus of these forces that made this structure. But as always, it's all turned into francs, because you're obviously not even capable of at least trying to build structures that at least in some part stand, but unfortunately, the truth always finds its way. As far as IranNLBgate is concerned, we have already talked about this today, but I would just like to remind you that it was not mentioned that in autumn 2017 the KNOVS here in the National Assembly approved the report on the suspicions of money laundering at our largest state bank in 2009-2011. This report pointed to a certain delay in the competent services and their inappropriate conduct. It is said that someone has tried to place this under the carpet, obviously for some reason, because through this state bank of NLB, we now know that it was not only a billion already, but even a billion 800 million of this money, which was put into circulation by Iranian citizens or their companies, of course for the purpose of financing terrorism around the world. And this is a very very criminal act. During those years, both the then President of the Government, the Finance Minister and the Minister of the Interior, were informed about this work, and today we are in 2021 and nothing has happened. So, then, the government outfit clearly supported this criminal activity. As far as I'm concerned, if I say in quotes, every day of criminal activity or one that at least smells like criminal activity, by the proud successors of the KPS or by someone else who wanted something small or even made a lot of money past FURS, of course, at the expense of all of us taxpayers. That's what the media has been writing about. This was discussed by the courts. In the final stage, the then SD candidate at the European elections in 2004 Mrs Lidija Mavretic smuggled migrants into an international criminal association. Radelski Mayor, as early as 2020, was a member of SD, and Alan Bukovnik was also convicted of receiving bribes. Also, articles on other former members of the SD – it seems that everyone then fled like kafre – one medium wrote in August 2020 in the title: “How did the former long-standing influential member of the Social Democrats, Marian Karl Rebernik, come to land for his castle worth 150,000 German marks through the condemned late cheater Igor Triplat.” There's something else about these things. Mrs Sukič, who also came from the party proposing this point, said today: “We cannot really place the Left among the udbomafija.” We've all seen the photograph where the head of the Left says the nominee chief of MPs of the Left sat down with the condemned Kordez. Cordage was convicted of unlawful property acquisition. Was it a cup of tea now, or was he actually sitting with a convicted criminal? I don't know. Someone else from the Left is probably going to say something about this. And the founding member of Kučan's Forum 21, who also had a very strong potential not to say pedigree to some paramat structures, met him there nicely, had tea or what they were doing. And you know what the Finances wrote down in January 2014 in an article entitled How Did Forum 21 Deplete Slovenia? “Most of the economic part of the Forum 21 network is in difficulties, investigations, insolvency proceedings or prisons.” It is said that members of the Left are happy to meet the people of this mile who have ended up in prison. Of course, the essence of this was, at least from this title, the Kučanov Forum 21. So here is clear evidence that the Udbomafija under Kučan's patronate is still meeting with current members of the far left. You have indeed brought this policy here, colleagues from the Left, to the very extreme edge of society, even by citing such meetings. But then you preach to us about criminals, about thieves, and then these screaming words almost always turn to your own contradiction. That's what I had to say. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince is on his turn, but I see that he is not in the hall, so I give the word to Juret Ferjan, to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us, who are accompanying this debate on the Mafia country, about the Republic of Slovenia! Allow me to start with some concrete examples where I think that each of us, that every citizen, citizen, Slovenian, Slovenian, resident, resident of this country can be asked whether it is possible to use this or to perceive it as at least one of the elements of the mafia state. IranNLBgate. One billion 800 million U.S. dollars of dirty Iranian money for the needs, apparently, of terrorism. Respected and respected! One billion 800 million U.S. dollars on 70 thousand different accounts, among them apparently at the expense of Mika Mouse and Jake Racman. Let's ask ourselves what would happen if any of us went to a bank, any of us in Slovenia, and said that 100,000 euros wanted to direct Jake Racman or Mika Miska, maybe not 100,000 euros, 10,000 euros, or a thousand euros. What would happen, respectable and respected, if we went to the bank and wanted to direct 100 euros to Jake Racman or Miki Miska? What would happen? What, though, happened when a billion and a half million U.S. dollars pointed out to these two children’s heroes, could they say? More than that, after a decade of doing this, we had a commission of inquiry led by a Member of the State, and today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Ange Logar, who has drawn up a report on more than a thousand pages, adopted conclusions that the National Assembly, respected and respected, adopted unanimously without a vote against. This was in 2018, if I am not mistaken, this final report was presented. And with respect and respect, to this day in 2021, which is slowly running out, who was responsible for this, had some sort of procedure taken place? I don't know how to run. At that time, at the press conference, when Dr. Ange Logar presented this final report, which was adopted unanimously, without a vote against this National Assembly, he said, quote: “The final report was adopted without a vote against, it was presented on a thousand 40 pages, consisting of two parts, from the work on political responsibility, and from the report describing bad banking practices in NLB and NKBM. Together with names, surnames, statements of individual parts of the hearings relevant for the demonstration of exposed bad banking practices, together with statements of hidden witnesses, documents, electronic communications and other electronic correspondence that we seized between the documents, in accordance with the sentences and conclusions of the courts.” This is the report of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission of Inquiry, adopted unanimously, without a vote against. 2018 Dr. Ange Logar presented this. Today in 2021, December, nothing happened. Nothing. A decade has passed since this work. And respectable and respected, who was in power when the Iranian money at the state bank was being laundered? Me you! You were in the area. You proud heirs, as you like to say. But we haven't heard a word about this today. Not a word. And it's hard to read about in Slovenian media. Next thing you know, it's the venous braces. The Commission of Inquiry was also led by Mrs Jelka Godec in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. There was a high-quality report here, too. Has anything changed to this day? Has there been any court proceedings to this day? He wasn't there. Did we initially hear about this investigator, these mob jobs in our country? We haven't heard. Bank hole. Respected and respected, we have put five billion euros of taxpayer money in a bank hole. EUR 5 billion, including in two private banks, respected and respected. Have we heard anything about this today? Nothing. We haven't heard anything about it. We also recapitalised two private banks with tax money, respected and respected. Maybe it's mob business, or isn't that mob business for you? TES 6, respectable and respected, the investment firm that built or was supposed to build only recognised corruption and paid 240 million Euros of compensation, penals, as we call it. So proven corruption. Has anyone been convicted of this until today? How many procedures are in progress? And have we, with respect and respect, in the introductions by the KUL's proponents heard any words about Tesh 6, about this proven corruption recognised by those involved? Respectable and respected, whose project was Tesh 6? It was a project of proud heirs, respected and respected. This was a Social Democrats project. Today we have heard in this National Assembly the wisdom of the House of Servants on corruption, about the Mafia country. It is Mrs Slug who is meeting with the President of the Court of Auditors, who, by the way, deserves another EUR 20,000 a month of some afternoon's extra earnings, which is obviously not a problem, and with which he talks about open cases, which is what the President of the Court of Auditors himself says. Is it a mafia state or is it not a mafia state? For, esteemed and respected, we have heard nothing of these openings by the proponents. Do you not want to or do you not want to hear about this, but these were some specific cases that I listed, from NLB to vascular braces, bank holes, Tesh 6, and I could still list them? Specific cases, proven, are only those institutions that should exercise into their own hands that have this duty, but have obviously not removed any proceedings and no judicial epilogue has yet been found. Why is that? Is it because we're a mafia country? While you are dealing with some fictional stories, this government works, walks on the ground, solves people's real problems, raises averages, prepares and in the National Assembly the coalition adopts laws that systematically regulate a safe, peaceful and dignified period of life — the Long-Terms Act. We have before us a novel of the Income Act, which raises wages for all those who work and create prosperity in Slovenia. We have anti-Korona packages with which we helped people, the Slovenian economy, unloaded a lot of people and prevented and saved a lot of hardship. This is for you, respectable Kulovniks, the Mafia state. But when you gave taxpayers money to banks, you gave it to NGOs, especially those based on Metelkov 6, when you paid tens of millions of euros for studies, what can or cannot be done, which was not a mafia state? For the money is also to you. The money has gone to yours, to yours, to yours, to yours, to those who are your supporters. At the time, it wasn't a mob country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard, I believe, by the SD, that it is sufficient 30 years to deal with Janez Janša. But, uh, then stop dealing with him. Stop setting him up for three decades with some affairs that always turn out to be framed, that it's mounted, and that it's political processes. Then stop this, for God's sake, after 30 years. You say one thing, you do something completely different. However, the fact is that the President of the Government is a thorn in your heel and that you probably want to have at least once, if not three times, the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But such achievements also require knowledge and intelligence. Today we have also heard a few words about some lobbyists and meetings on leave. Respected and respected, not so long ago that we do not remember, the KUL coalition or KUL opposition has now proposed the former key of this individual, whom you are here exposing as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, now you decide who the Mafia country is and who's not a mob country. Things don't go together, respectable and respected! Or do you really have the memory of a goldfish — a few seconds or a few minutes — but nothing matters anymore? Ladies and gentlemen, here is an interesting book — a parallel mechanism of a deep state. This book is very problematic for you, I have a feeling from the debate today, but not from the point of view of content, but from the point of view that this book actually reveals the benefits that are happening and which are elements of the Mafia state. The work that's been going on, I don't know, maybe it's still happening. It bothers you that people can take the book into their hands, read it, look at it, and create their own opinion. That bothers you! That bothers you because you've had a lot of power over the media for decades, and with that, I'm going to say, as you like to say, you've been doing brutal propaganda to people of the brain. But that's not how it works today. The media space is pluralized, people also have Twitter, Facebook and social networks, where they can get significantly more information than only those given by individuals. Respected and respected, I will conclude with another concrete case that can also point to the so-called Mafia country, respected and respected. We have heard, not so long ago, that we would not remember at least when it is on Croatian television, I think on Croatian national television the current mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana Zoran Jankovic asked the director of the show: Are you not worried that one day you would be sentenced and sent to prison? I now quote the mayor of Ljubljana, the capital of our country, Zoran Jankovic, and quote: “Not by chance. In all my years in the field of executive power I was the greatest opponent of Janez Janša.” End of quote. A man would say okay at the first ball, okay, but he's saying something, he's the opponent, okay. But you know, it followed; on 12 January 2016, RTV Slovenia reported something like this: the Ljubljana Mayor was forgiven for the disputed construction of Mercator's shopping centre in Nis. The following was the case: The Special Prosecutor's Office missed a two-year deadline for prosecution in the case of the Pharmaceutical. Moreover, the court must destroy all evidence against Jankovic. Now one wonders, even one who didn't believe it when Jankovic said these things, but one seriously wonders when it happens once, twice, three times and so on. Is there something really about that or not? Is everything working? It's not a mob country, not a place! Is it a mafia state? But you know, with respect and respect, we have not heard a word about this particular case at the outset of today by the proponents. Not a word. And as far as Jankovic is concerned, the man obviously even has the power to take the phone, call the bank and bank committees 200 million euros of credit. Credits that have not been returned and credits that all taxpayers now pay. This isn't a mob country either, is it, respected and respected? And yes, you guessed, also about this introduction by the proponents of the KUL, by the Left, SD, LMŠ, Sab we have not heard anything. Nothing, respectable and respected. The problem is that this government, under the leadership of Janez Janša, gives money to people, to the Slovenian economy, when it relieves hardships, when it prepares and proposes to the National Assembly measures that increase net wages for all who work and create prosperity in Slovenia. Respected and respected, everyone! Not your paramilitary, not just NGOs, which are government supporters, but all those who work and create prosperity in Slovenia. This is a mafia state for you. You're discrediting. It's a mafia state when you don't like something. But when they were laundering money at the state bank, when they were dealing with an odd supply of veneers when it was being sold, private banks were recapitalising, and it wasn't a mafia state. Stop fooling around! Stop blinding me! Stop lying to yourself! Respected and respected! Several successive mandates will be held in power by the right-centred government, a less-mafia state, respected and respected, less-mafia country will be in this wonderful, beautiful country of Slovenia. And this fact, respected and respected, even with the brutal propaganda that so-called major Slovenian media are launching, cannot be destroyed. That's the end of it. Today we have 5 hours and 55 minutes for this debate. I believe we're going to use it to the end or almost to the end. If these five hours and 55 minutes were to be used to read this book, they probably could not read it to the end or could not, because, as you can see, it is quite extensive, and perhaps if they were to read this book for 5 hours and 55 minutes, they might be speaking less nebulosis today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has a word to prepare the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The debate is therefore on the question of corruption and unacceptable governance by the President of the Government of Janez Janša, a fellow Member of Vatovec. Well, for me, I must say, the word “mafia management” is a hard word to say, because in Slovenian history there are really no bots and underworlds, but some of their unseemly business networks have been brought to Slovenia by arrivals, especially from the Balkans. Some of these indecisive and criminal works were also inherited from the old party structures, the so-called fortifications, which later became lazier, but continued to be a criminal, illegal activity and, of course, has roots in smuggling, imprisoning innocent people and unfortunately also in the killings of Slovenian and foreign citizens. And now we're talking today about what our Prime Minister isn't doing right. It is right to discuss, if anything is wrong in this country, but not the way everything that is wrong or what is wrong hangs exactly to the President of the Government, Mr Janša, because this government, under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the President, has achieved extraordinary success in the field of economy, infrastructure, work, employment and so on despite the epidemic. It also played a unique role in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. So of all the successes of this government, I have to say, somehow the most outstanding of all is the Long-Term Care Act, which will have excellent long-term effects. But don't let me get away from the darkness. Why did I mention this marriage? Because it's a system law that we've passed, somehow, even after the direction of the European Union, which the left governments have written for more than 10 years and spent quite a bit of money on them. And that, I must say, is sad. But I don't know if it's because of incompetence, because it's because it's alienated through a variety of counseling, or if it's because of the mafia. Because honestly, now that we're all using that word, we're going to move on so easily. This government, I must say, has adopted this law in the National Assembly, regardless of the fact that it is crucial, should, in fact, be a priority to protect our most vulnerable, but the KUL coalition has not supported it. Because they don't care about the elderly, and they just act like they care about the elderly. And here we have new and new actors in this National Assembly and we also have one mentor, unfortunately, in the National Assembly, which belongs to the KUL Coalition, this mentor has a so-called political role play programme. And now we learn well from this player also others to play well here, what is good and what is not and how we work for the good of the country. The current government has therefore seriously reversed the declining trend in health care, for long-term care, and has adopted legislation on investments in the field of housing in all sectors and fields, the military, health care, education. And today, to be honest, we have been stealing time from a capable, successful President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who some of the more left-wing options themselves are maligning in the European Union, as well as from the same Prime Minister and the distinguished Council of the European Union. Unfortunately, some in Slovenia still do not see this, even because of the strong media blockade and ignoring it, and of course also these governments, as well as our Slovenian Democratic Party, which has been happening to us for some time. But it's not such a bad thing, and somehow without the media, we'll have to take things forward. Meanwhile, many terrible things have been happening since the beginning of our country’s independence, including here. Many of them were hidden, and some were only slow to arrive on the day. Many of the injustices that have led the European Court of Human Rights to constantly remind us of the indecisive work and the biased decisions of the courts. Now that this last affair about this diploma has somehow escalated and we have once again received one new photoshop master who actually conceals who judges us in Slovenia, I must say that we need to list others who have happened and who are taking our condition so that this country can be even more successful. Some of this is also well described by Mr Rado Pezdir in his Parallel Mechanism. A previously-discovered story of money laundering, i.e. close to a billion dollars in the New Ljubljana Bank, which was laundered for terrorism and armament of the country under the United Nations embargo, which was under the supervision of all the European Union countries. Well, this is where it went smoothly. And I hope that the proposaler will not now say that, of course, Mr Janez Janša is also responsible for this administration of the country and banks. He cannot say this because, at the time, there was another government in power, which had its head in the sand with the silence and non-action of the system of prosecution, criminalists and police, and was also responsible for the relief of everything, and despite the clear findings and evidence of the Möderndorfer system and then the Logar Commission, we were able to do so, so we achieved a zero result. It is certain that the situation in the field of human rights in Slovenia, as well as the order and management of public funds under the government of Janez Janša, is changing for the better. Meanwhile, corruption without evidence, based on some newspaper articles, clippings, titles and so on, is also evident in the request for today's debate with the President of the Government. But this government and this party that runs this government, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, leading this country transparently and, to the extent possible, also economically in the time and state in which they took over this leadership, and this was an epidemiological situation of a difficult dimension. And it's not the devil that you don't make some kind of mistake, and then it has to go away and get rid of it. The Slovenian Democratic Party and the coalition do not work like it did, for example, before. And of course, we go to our decisions in a way that makes sense, economic and economic science. What happened, for example, in previous governments, for example, with the former government, which is now actually under Alenka Bratusek, is said by its successor, Sab, when it happened that the real embezzlement of investors of securities in the shell stole money from middle-class citizens and set it up for write-offs to rich people and tycoons. And therefore, under the government of the current SAB, it has also occurred that, in the end, the European Court of Human Rights has also said that this case does not drink water. It can happen that we will cover these 960 million with much higher amounts than were actually encroached on our citizens. And of course it will be necessary to take new steps to drive Slovenia along the path of success. And certainly not turn all those things that have happened in the past to the current successful prime minister and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted, fellows and fellows! Today we are talking about a question that actually shows again the picture of the KUL opposition when they want to show that the SDS party is dividing Slovenia into two genders and how the Mafia government is running and running the country. But they set up the mirror for themselves. What they read to this government and to this coalition was actually done by themselves when they were in government and when they were running the country. Although Vatovec wanted to show that he was not there at the time or that what the President of the Government was talking about was none of his business — it was best to raise our hands and say, we were gone. But you're there, you're defending what was going on back then, and you want to cover up everything that happened back then and put it under the rug. But that's not how it works. Unfortunately, if you have decided to be part of the KUL Coalition, you must also take it for hire and not just choose what suits you, but the rest you put on other colleagues from the KUL Coalition. You have to take everything in the package. And what we listen to today and what we tell you based on the facts, you don't like to hear. Indeed, all that the President of the Government said at the outset was that this had accumulated in 30 years, which was long enough to bear witness and to prove the functioning of those governments that led the country in the time of the affair. Not to repeat what has already been mentioned, and I will leave time to my colleagues below, I will merely quote - that you will not say again that I am saying something that is not true or that I want to defend the Prime Minister Janez Janša and turn my words to us in favour - the author of the book who commented on his book on the facts he collected and testified: “This book came 30 years too late. Based on documents given by Owl in the archives of the Republic of Slovenia. These documents were previously in the hands of the predecessor of the Owl. So all the documentation existed and then, in 1991, "we should start working with the police, the prosecution and the courts and all the money that the network of parties managed to hide abroad. Why didn't that happen, I don't know, but I think it was a political decision. The President of the Government appoints the Director of the Owl and that no Prime Minister has asked, and at the same time no Director of the Owl has revealed this, this is a little crazy. Something was very wrong." Do you hear me? Very wrong. “There has therefore been a retention of data, as it is an obvious crime in the economy and the competent institutions should react. Only in the case of the laundering of Iranian money through NLB ten years ago were all regulators, from Banka Slovenije, Office of Money Laundering, Police, then government, and many others have not reacted. It's just crazy to wake up one morning and find out that someone's been laundering billions of dollars of money from Iran, and no one's moving from regulators and competent institutions. And the case even closes. At the same time, the gentleman still opens new and new accounts and continues to launder money." That's what the author of the book said in the interview. It's really funny that when someone goes to a bank and they give him money, they only protect their credit by the name of someone in the then politics or someone who had some influence in the background. Here we should ask the proposers of today's point of what the current government is like and when corruption and mafia governance were actually with the country. Not today, of course not. Because of what you are reading, it does not hold anything completely, especially because it is pointed at by the indicators. And you know why we're talking here today? Because you'd like to cover up these indicators of success. I will repeat some of these: unemployment under the KUL coalition of 7.4%, under the Janša government of 3.9%; the lowest pension for 40 years of working age of €530 under the KUL coalition, under the Janša government of €620; the average pension under the KUL coalition of €661, under the Janša government of €730; the gross social product under the KUL coalition of 2.7%, under the current government of 7.4%. It's just a few pointers, and I'm not going to keep listing the others, because there are too many good ones, and that goes right in your nose. But when you talk about the media, normally, anyone who endangers at least a little of the former state's operation, the previous coalition, is the first current opposition, but then it is necessary to get on the road quickly and stop. Why? Because of not being able to show how good things can be done and what is best, it is important not to become overly disconnected from this old relationship and the old ways. That's the point. And that is also the essence of today's debate. You want to show the opposite and do not want to interrupt this old path. But no, this government works well, works for people, works for citizens and citizens, and will work in a developmental direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Bojan Podkoršek has the word to prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. I am a lovely greeting to my colleagues and colleagues and, of course, to all those who accompany today's session! Maybe a few sentences from my point of view on today's agenda called Corruption and Mafia governance with the country. In 2021 this is a very sad title of the point. Today we listened to the proposaler who explained this point, and we all listened in particular to the detailed President of the Government, who went to the history of this country and even a few years ago. I am grateful to him because it is very clear and simple that everyone who is in the Chamber and who is accompanying this meeting really understands why today's item is on this agenda. Today, we have heard several times about the book by Mr Pezdir of the Parallel Mechanism of the Deep State that came out this year. So far, as we have already heard, no one has come forward, especially perhaps no one has called Mr Pesdir to see that there are some odd things written or fictions or things that do not. In short, it is a book that can make it clear to anyone who takes a few hours and slowly and reads this book in detail what parallel mechanisms of a deep state mean. I don't want to accuse anyone in this national council, but I'd like to point out some old ones. Certainly, the fact that people who live in Slovenia have difficulty living or are periods where life in Slovenia is more difficult is very connected with the system that we are talking about today, which is very sad for me. Surely we have mechanisms in Slovenia – the electronic system for paying taxes is so determined that when you owe one euro, it is immediately blocked if there is not enough money in the account. In short, it is not possible for someone to remain one euro of taxes. Of course, on the other hand, there are millions of taxes that do not pay. The banking system — none of us or citizens and citizens who have pensions, wages — cannot happen to have one cent or one euro left somewhere, not to pay interest or to have what is owed to the banks removed from their account. I think it's a fair system that works, but it doesn't work for everyone. I was in the previous term in the National Assembly when the current Foreign Minister, Dr. Ange Logar, led two committees. Above all, I have a very deep memory of a commission investigating a bank hole. This commission was made up of both the President, who was in the opposition at the time and the opposition members, as well as the coalition members. I remember when we even had a closed session when we discussed the data, even the names, that was not to be heard by the Slovenian public, the meeting was closed. I don't remember exactly now, but I do know that this report was adopted by a constitutional majority in the National Assembly. Of this, it has been quite a while, but I think that the report, which is so qualitatively prepared, is, of course, primarily due to the then President of this Commission and to all members and members, both then the opposition and the coalition, that those experts, both in the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, cannot have much work to bring these people to justice. But unfortunately, nothing's happened until today. I also have no intention of judging prosecutors or judges, but sometimes it pains me to listen to such or other stories, which, of course, have double vats. For those ordinary citizens it's just like it has to be, for the maggots, by the way, but nothing happens. In short, when I mention this book and listen to today's discussion of all of us, both on the left and on the right, I sometimes feel that if they accompany us in this book, they laugh at us all together in the National Assembly. Since we sometimes fight for masks in modern times, whether someone wears them or not, we fight about whether we have to get vaccinated or not, or whether they will be able to pour on the Ljubljana market at Christmas holidays, and what little things are we fighting about here. And out goes the caravan. Tell me which municipality other than Ljubljana could happen. None. We have 212, but it can't happen in 211 municipalities. It can only happen in 212th Municipality, which is Ljubljana, that an entrepreneur who has built his own company for 20, 30 years must commit suicide, but this is not important to the media at all. It is important to seek faults and to overthrow the government that is in power today. Colleagues and colleagues, if we go into today's debate and if we go deeper, what's been going on and what's going on in 30 years' history, I think we should all think together. I don't think it's a place for us to accuse each other now, but to ask those of the press who have been paid for it, this is the prosecution, the court to give results. If there are no results, then it is pointless for us to confuse ourselves with such or other words. In short, I want life to be better for citizens and citizens, and it is easier for us to ask them, because we are here in the National Assembly to do their job in the field of the prosecution, the judiciary and, of course, the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj, prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. It is right to talk about corruption because corruption is in Slovenia, as it is in many other countries, but other countries, with institutions that we also have in Slovenia, are more or less successful in persecuting, preventing and punishing those who break the laws, abuse the situation or otherwise exploit the system. Most of us have a feeling that those who steal pâté are being punished, but those who steal the company are not. Or, for example, the one who washes one billion through our largest bank, which tolerates more than 10,000 Euros of high remittances on Jako Racman or Miki Misko, when a regular pensioner comes in to pay for the trash, but for 9 Euros ordered by the Power, he must show a personal document and cannot point to Mika Misko. According to the analysis, 28% of Slovenians trust the judiciary and 72% do not. And this is certainly because of many decisions in recent years and decades, because I say that everyone has a reputation, with his quality work. We may wonder whether our justice does this quality work or not. Slovenia is among the countries that have the most judges per population, that is 41.7 per 100,000 people, but we know that we also have the most judicial backlog. It would be logical to have so many judges dealing on average with fewer cases than their colleagues abroad, that these decisions are timely and quality, but unfortunately not so. Moreover, we also came first after human rights were violated. This was found by the European Court of Human Rights. There have been 334 verdicts against Slovenia, which have found human rights violations, mostly due to lengthy judicial proceedings and the right to adequate compensation, and this has cost us more than 300 million. We know that thousands of wills were set up in court, which, of course, was a great damage to all those heirs, but - have we experienced any epilogues? Did anyone answer? Has anyone been punished for a bad job? Nothing. We lose most of the lawsuits in the European Court of Justice due to lengthy judicial proceedings and instead of asking the courts to carry out their work effectively and quickly, we have extended the limitation deadlines in recent laws so that some of the tramps caught by the police will be able to process the court in due course. Then we have various decisions that are incomprehensible to a thinking person. If I only mention Patrio, which some of you mentioned. “Not known when, not known where.” In order for the procedure to begin at all, it is only possible for us to do so. And it's terrifying that then all the important actors in this affair, I'm saying from the court circles, they've taken the highest positions in the judiciary and the prosecution system. The next trial, which may be embarrassing to all of us, is the conviction of Milk Novič for the murder of the director of the Chemical Institute Janko Jamnik. In addition to the fact that he was in prison for several years and was accompanied by the whole country by a depraved process, there was, in the end, a complication, I would say, at the wrong end. The judge who found violations in the proceedings and who found that Mr Milko Novič was innocent, found himself in trials and proceedings, because it was obviously not his fellow judges that he decided as he had decided. He said that the Slovenian judiciary acts as a mafia. If a judge says that, we'd expect the entire judicial system to bend over and start setting things up and cleaning up on its own. But nothing happens to us, right? He played a very important role both with Milk Novič and with Patria, High Judge Branko Maslesha, whose diploma we have been discussing for the last days or whether he has the competence to occupy such high positions. Now he's probably going to retire a little early, so there'll be peace and that thing will get out of the headlines, but this time it won't happen. Although we have been alerting these things years ago, I hope that Minister Dikaucič will review all the judicial examinations and diplomas of our judges, just as we did years ago for state-owned companies, to see if we can find any more fraud. While I am sure that most things are fine, also those who are not, they must be discovered and sanctioned. In recent days, we have again followed the news that drug king Dragan Tošić and his associates have been released from prison. According to the 2018 judgment, he should stay 15 years for the sake of cocaine trafficking in several countries, including Slovenia. Years ago, they asked Italy to hand him over, and it wasn't because we were going to take the matter away and process it, and of course that didn't happen. More than I said, Balkan fighters have already been indicted in some other countries and were released to us a week or two ago. If we expect to have confidence in the judiciary on the basis of all this information and believe that corruption is effectively pursued in this country, I think we are wrong. There are many things that need to be investigated, so years ago they set up a National Investigation Office, but the most excruciating problems and processes remain unresolved and unfinished.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Let's get one thing straight first. You keep talking to the proposer. The proposal for today's agenda item is the National Assembly, which voted by a majority that a Member's question should be answered at a meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. in plenary session, and discussed. But even so, despite the four repetitions, you have failed to internalise that today we are talking about a majority decision of the institution, such as the National Assembly. And besides saying, oh, holy forgiveness, exactly what we've been expecting and even hinting at in our positions, it's all about, it's all about, it's only about the essential problems that haven't happened in the last 18 months. And that's enough talking to think about, referring to some articles, and I don't know what else. Therefore, honourable Presidents, on the basis of Rule 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly proceed to the debate closed to the public because I would like to refer to documents marked by different degrees of secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	That was your motion of procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	Yes, paragraph 4 of Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	Just a minute. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	If I may help, Mr Vice-President, I think that the meeting should now be closed to the public and then we are voting in closed session on whether we are going to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your initiative, but first I give you a 10-minute break to prepare for the vote on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	I would suggest, Mr Vice-President, a somewhat longer pause to gather all Members, because they are probably scattered, as this was not expected. So 15 to 20 minutes would be great. But of course it's your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Okay, then I suggest a 20-minute break and we start at 14.50. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.29.) / At 2.50 p.m., discussion continued without public presence 21. Agenda items - Discussion on the reply of the President of the Government of Janez (Ivan) to the question of Mr Matey T. Watovč in connection with corruption and mafia governance with the State, EPA 2291-VIII/ (The open part of the hearing/meeting continued for the public at 15.20.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Hello again! We continue with the adjourned session and the 21st item on the agenda – this is the debate on the response of the President of the Government of Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question by Mr Mate Tašner Vatovec on corruption and mafia governance with the country. He has the word as the last of the panellists, Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam President. The world of Slovenia is crystal clear what happened at the part of the meeting, which was closed to the public, given that the meeting is now open to public monitoring. And this is proof that we live in a mafia country, no matter how much Members on one side of Parliament want to oppose it, because otherwise I cannot imagine how not to talk about concrete criminal transactions supported by specific ministers and a slightly less specific government. We can be ashamed of ourselves as a national assembly because we do not want to see concrete documents, material evidence, because we do not want to hear what really happened and what has been hidden for so long. Why am I talking about the first person? Because the result of the vote in a closed session is secret and therefore a shameful decision can only be made in the first person, and this is the responsibility that some of us can do here and others will never be able to. Those who know the content that we have met with her at the work of the commission of inquiry can be charged with the threat of private civil charges when we specifically accuse you of crime. In particular, we can prove a number of things and, in particular, we can underpin any thought we make. However, if we go only to publicly available information about what has been going on in the last 20 months, the first case is a specific video by Minister Zdravko Počvalska. If this is not enough to assume at least political responsibility? You're not. “You pay 100% of the advances” and we talked about almost EUR 9 million, “you pay 100% of the advances, Bitenc has to get this deal”, is a transcript. [[…]] No, it bothers you more that it was obtained in an illegal way, uh, like the Visionary, if paying taxes is stupid. Whoever recorded it is the first question, not what someone said. If we move on. In one of the interviews, Ivan Gale, whom I believe you hate from the bottom of your heart, said: “This is a business of SDS. GenePlanet is a business of SDS.« And the minister is transferring EUR 9 million for the SDS business. Whether that was true or not, you will never know unless the investigating authorities do something of their own. Which is prepared from the paperwork in this pile of paper that I'm going to go now that we're done, destroy, you won't know because you didn't want it. What was the role of the only Slovenian state bank in this business, the SID of the Bank, which issued a 50% guarantee in record time at the end of the week. Nor does it matter what kind of communication has taken place among key members of this business. Nor does it matter that the supplier ensured that the 100 % advance would ultimately have a 50 % advance, but the deal was still carried out. It's all public information. They've been showing up somewhere in the media. But it's true or not, you don't want to know. Synthetics of the whole job? 220 purchased caregivers, 90 taken over by Slovenia because it did not want to use caregivers that are useless, this also occurred in the media. Less than half of them were taken over by the state at a price of EUR 36 000 400 per piece, and the rest, attention, the Minister-General Zdravko Restoršek admits at this meeting, admits, tells before the universal Slovenia that the supplier, this well-known GenePlanet, sold to Hungary at a significantly higher price. Nothing's wrong with anyone again. No one asked how Minister Restorantsek knew at what price and who the supplier sold them to, unless he was in constant contact with him, and that was very good, because that is not what business people say. It doesn't matter either. No, we've been listening to whole novels today about what's been going on for the last 30 years. These last 20 months are crucial. These last 20 months point to the Mafia country and corruption in this country. And then the President of the Government, when he gives us his hand, is demonstratively getting up and leaving, says that the supervisory institutes don't do their job. Yes, they are. Of course they are, but you didn't like the job. The Court of Auditors issued a very well-founded, supported by the same identical papers as here, because we probably all requested the same documentation. It's a disaster report. The purchase was ineffective, untransparent. They wrote down 13 suspicions or allegations of crimes. Then what happened? The NPU of these 13 files, which are still probably waiting, I still have no data to take over, waiting for them in the Court of Auditors. About why, he was talking to my colleague Rudy - because he was interfering with the police at the NPU. All you have to do is count the individual stones. You can nod off as much as you want. Everything I have just said could either be rejected or confirmed by what is available to the investigative commission or the two investigative commissions. That's what I heard in the middle, because we have an investigative committee. No, we don't. Just the kind of person who can confirm these suspicions or throw them away, you're running it on your own. And for one year now, we've been dealing with directors of public institutions, how much protective equipment they had available by 13 March, and whether they told anyone they didn't have it. Such suggestive questions have also been raised. That's all that mattered. Of course, because it is necessary to make room to justify and justify all purchases that took place after 13 March, brilliantly, with the knowledge of the Prime Minister of the Government. It doesn't matter again. And if it goes once, it goes to the end. Today we see that the system responds, and I am very pleased that it responds. In NLZOH, the National Environment and Food Laboratory, investigations are under way. It wouldn't be fair to say what they're going to find out and what they're not gonna find out, it's their job, but the system has responded. If it is an irregularity, let him examine and determine what is true and what is not true, what is legal and what is illegal. You didn't even want to be able to monitor the contents. You didn't want to, you were actively opposed to that desire, with the expected result. And then the easiest thing to do is to wave with a thick book parallel to the deep state mechanism. It could be everything that's in that book. But what does this have to do with today’s subject, except that there are probably models, procedures, maybe even people who are identical in that book or in your kind? It's identical. And I think it has finally come at some point when it has to be said: “Enough is this practice, no matter who is doing it! That's enough corruption! Enough damage to public funds!" Not the sermon, yes, because you did it. Then what? Does that give you the right to do something like this on your own? Not even close. In fact, man is speechless when he follows the practice in detail. I don't like to talk about some trivial stuff, what is it, what isn't, what maybe is it, what may not have happened, because it's much easier to talk about concrete documents, concrete data. But it is an interest, of course, I understand, that it is the interest of the information concerned to blur the matter as long as possible. And now I'm probably going to listen to the obvious how we went beyond the topic of today's agenda. That's impossible. Corruption, the Mafia – we can say whatever we want in here. And the findings can be very specific. Although I see that it is from specific Members, there is only one other Member. This has also been revealed to us as to how we can withdraw from your desires for organic reading of unusual business. But in the end, all that remains is what we have experienced today. And I'm deeply disappointed. I'm really disappointed. However, I hoped that at least the National Assembly had so many backbones with individual Members and Members that it would say, okay, this is really interesting and I want to hear, I want to see, I like to judge who is a criminal and who is not. So I repeat, even under potential lawsuits of profanity, slander, I don't know what else, all I've said is that what's been going on today, what's been going on in the last 20 months, is pure-blood crime. I'm sure of that, and I can prove it. That's the way it is. You want to, you don't want to, one day you'll listen to the truth that you don't like. And one day it's gonna be necessary to put down the bills. And this peeing in the middle that I'm listening to right now, and now I'm not going to be quiet anymore, but it's obviously a bifidus insufficiency that affects a person in the long term. I thank my colleagues and colleagues for listening to me for so long. The epilogue, obviously, as we've been used to for weeks, no, long years -- although these three and a half years, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think we're going to be able to wait. There is no epilogue, there is no epilogue, and crime remains our constant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal has a mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I would kindly ask you to teach Mr Pavšić very detailed and very harshly that he is not above the law or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly govern the handling of classified information and the rules of procedure governing the work of investigative commissions and the law governing it. In addition, we have a law that regulates how secret materials are handled and how they can be reproduced and under what conditions. All that he has done now is, of course, a violation of these rules. These rules are not intended for themselves, but are intended to examine matters in order to make a report. I want you to make a report and then submit it to the National Assembly, so that we can deal with it, not manipulate certain materials or even manipulate it illegally. For what you have done here today, and when you say that you have some secret material there, which you yourself have reproduced and so on, as far as I know, is a violation of the Secret Data Act, and as chairman, as a responsible person, I suggest you inform the police and examine the conduct of Mr Pavšič in terms of legality. However, as regards his attempt to manipulate the work of the data, I ask you to order him, as a member of the commission and as a leader of another commission, to make sure that an appropriate report is drawn up. If he does not feel that he has a majority, he always has a right under the rules of procedure, it is only necessary to know the rules of procedure, Mr Pavšič, that he should also give a minority or a minority opinion to the report, which is then addressed by the National Assembly, so that the issue which is the subject of the work of the Commission of Inquiry is addressed comprehensively. Anyway, I'm done with what I started. Everyone is obliged to respect the law and to respect the rules of procedure and no one can be over it. And what you've afforded today is a grave abuse of the rules of procedure and the law. And even I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid not, I think that your conduct has all the elements and indications of a crime. In this case, it should be examined and decided by others, those responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes, for your procedural proposal. I agree with you in the work where you say everyone is obliged to respect the law and the rules of procedure. I hope that in your words you have also been heard by some of your coalition colleagues to listen to your call to respect the laws and regulations. As for classified information, however, I followed very closely and listened to my colleague Pavšić's discussion. I must say that he has not operated on any classified information, and I do not find any violation in his debate. Moreover, he was very correct when he spoke of the fact that we did not vote that the meeting should be closed to the public. So I see no need, however harsh and detailed, to teach my colleague Pavšić, because I believe he knows all the procedures and rules of the game. Mr Pavšič, first of all, the procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Otherwise, I expect a reminder, President. That's it. Do you think I'm that stupid or what? Yeah, you're underestimating me. Mr Grimes, these are the records, my own records from the investigative commission, and they are marked with a certain degree of confidentiality. What I do with my notes is my business until I use them for things I can't. That is why I have also proposed that we close the public meeting where I could show you these notes and conclusions. At the same time, I think I could invite you, in accordance with Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure, to the protected area and show you the original documents to make sure that my conclusions were correct. So don't teach me about what marriage grounds I have, what I have and what I don't have. What will be written tomorrow on your Facebook Facebook profiles, Facebook profiles, and now I'm perfectly clear. That's exactly what you just said. And don't be afraid, Mr Grims, I won't fall for the most basic trick you'd ever want. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you also for your procedural proposal. I will not give Mr Grimes a warning because I thought his procedural proposal had been corrected. However, it is a matter of his perception that he has developed through the procedural proposal, so that I do not intend to influence or comment on anything. Now again, Mr. Grimes. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I advise you to choose your words. Let's say there's an exit, which I could also talk about, let's say, what kind of ladies. However, I would remind you that the law governing the work of classified information - and as you know, I have met with him quite a lot in the past years - also deals with reproduction, transmission, copying, copying and everything else, which is classified and is extremely accurate in this regard, and any violation of this law is a crime. So please take into account that proposal I originally made. For it is a matter of manipulating, transferring, copying, transcribing, and everything else, which is governed by the Law of Secret Information. You said twice, once you said you had copies of the documents here, now you said they were copies. Either way, it could be a problem. And I suggest you, Madam President, to take into account what I have said and to inform the police, who will investigate this matter in detail. Once again, I ask Mr Pavšič and everyone else to do the work that they have taken and for which we have also authorized them by vote and to produce the relevant reports, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and then we will be able to deal with and adopt these reports in an appropriate manner at the meetings of the National Assembly. Not to manipulate classified information. That's bad, and it's always bad for the country at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, once again, first of all, about the Word Treasure. In my performances you did not hear the word “output”, so that what you said at the beginning did not hold. But if any of the Members have used this word, I will not have any effect on the word treasure of the other Members, because I would have much to do with the Members of your party in particular. As far as you're concerned, you're implying that colleague Pavšič is operating on classified information, look, I don't know what's in that map. If you know, I appeal to you to report it to the police. I certainly will not, because I appreciate that the implementation of my colleague Pavšič was not about any disclosure of any classified information, and I believe that if you have listened carefully to it in the debate so that you can attach it to it. Now, I warn you, if you make the same procedural proposal you have made twice now, I will give you a warning because it is a manifest abuse of procedural proposals. The following is a procedural proposal from a colleague of Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	So, Madam Vice-President, my procedural proposal is so much the same to yours that you simply stop this deception of Mr Grims and let him do what he thinks he does, but we all wanted to see and hear the results of this investigative commission, and you voted with the extreme left hand against it because you are not interested in it and you are not interested in the facts. But we have to listen to what happened 70 years ago, as if that was the reason and excuse for all the ugly things you're doing. He said very correctly that he would destroy these documents, which he had prepared for the closed part of the session. You weren't in. And what I listened to very carefully, Comrade Grims, if you read something other than your own media, if you looked at something other than Novo24, you would know and see that everything that Comrade Pavšič has said has already been said publicly in the media. I haven't heard anything new here, and what you're doing is completely misleading, so I suggest and my procedural proposal is that we move on and that you really don't allow such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, we have two more procedural proposals. First, Mr. Pavšič, then Mrs. Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	These dimensions of thinking really go beyond any common sense. But how am I supposed to talk about the things I wanted to introduce to you if I didn't have at least something written down, of course, in accordance with the law? And one more thing, Comrade Grimes, is that you don't know much about the Secret Data Act. Yeah. Who is the subject of a violation of the treatment, manipulation or any procedure with classified information? First the responsible person of the constitution in which we work and then this responsible person, this is the President of the National Assembly, currently the responsible person of all of us sitting here [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you told them to report me to the police right away. I'll go to the police myself now if you're satisfied and show them. Even so, they are familiar with these contents, at least those who are investigating these matters. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you for this procedural explanation. Even Mrs Škrnjar has a procedural proposal or explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The law on the protection of classified information states in Article 33: “A person who has become familiar with classified information in his work shall not use such information for purposes other than tasks or functions.” Since I think that Mr Robert Pavšč abused this, that is, the data is used for the work of the commission of inquiry, and the commission of inquiry has not yet finished its work, so it has not heard all the witnesses intended or examined all the material in its deliberations, I believe that these data should not be used for other purposes until, of course, the work of this Commission is completed. I do not hope to take any of the things out of this protected area, because, of course, it prohibits me from doing so as well as the rules of procedure on the work of this Commission. And Mr Pavšč said that he would cut all these things off if there was no secret information on these matters that he had brought, then he would not have to cut them off and talk about it. I think that the matter has completely missed its purpose and that it is necessary to actually declare, you are the right, you will know very well the continuation of this law, or else I am reading something else to whom you will announce it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	Mrs. Shriner, with all due respect, you don't have to read me any laws. As a lawyer, I know that it must not be in a certain situation, either read just one article or just one law, but look at the situation a little bit wider. And let me read you a Article of the Rules of Procedure, which allows secret information to be dealt with at a meeting of the National Assembly, of course under special conditions. This is referred to in Article 101, which states that “the meeting or part of the meeting may take place without public presence if the National Assembly or the working body considers material containing classified information or other data protected under laws or other regulations.” That's what you referred to. Therefore, colleague Pavšč proposed that the meeting be closed before he could explain any of these classified information. We did just that by deciding whether the meeting was closed or not. We voted that the meeting would not be closed, so we did not discuss the information that my colleague Pavšić wanted to discuss. That is why I see no problem and I do not understand you in your procedural proposals. However, if you think that, in his debate, a colleague of Pavšič has given any secret information in any way, we know that there is a magnetogram of this meeting and its debates, and I ask you to do what you ask of me. Submit your application, you obviously know the legal options and take advantage of them. But I have already said three times that in the debate, my colleague Pavšić did not notice, but I listened carefully to no secret data. If you don't mind, we'd like to continue the discussion. Collegiate Škrnjar, if you make the same procedural proposal, I will give you a reminder because this is a manifest abuse of the procedural proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I will not make the same procedural proposal to announce Mr Robert Pavšić because he violated Article 33 of the Secret Data Act, but I am supplementing this proposal to announce yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	I thank you for this farce, which you have submitted in the form of a procedural proposal. Indeed, the imagination obviously doesn't know the boundaries in this room either. Thank you, Comrade Boxer. Now we are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will get the word of the proposaler Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. After this mourning, it is now possible at the end to return to what is on the agenda. I will conclude where I actually started because, in the middle of these six hours, there was not even a shred of reflection on what this coalition was doing with SDS at the head of the opposition. Once again, the issue that we should be discussing today is a question that is somehow linked between the largest government party and some methods that could be called Mafia, and, of course, with a great degree of corruption. Last but not least, from the beginning of this government to today, Slovenia has slipped heavily on the scale of perception of corruption, so that we certainly are not proud of it. What is crucial is that essentially the coalition has chosen a very simple method to avoid facing itself, and this is just to find some monsters in the closet from the past. Fortunately, we did not talk about 1945 today, but the President of the Government had 20, 25 minutes of exposé on what went wrong from the moment he himself freed, bare-breasted and liberated Slovenia, and so he perceived the historical reality, and how it was then stolen, and we heard again about the fate, the dogs, the men, and the juries, and I don't know who else what was going on, how everything was stolen, how much and how in the past. But I am once again, and I stress this once again, I am not interested in the patterettes, the dogs, what they did in 1990, 1991, who is the money for the Iranians and so on. If these procedures are such that they can be dealt with, of course, I hope that the law enforcement authorities will complete them as soon as possible and do what is unfortunately obsolete as well as what patriots, where the President of the Government had his fingers in between, we have nothing left. The damage was done, and that's it. We do, however, have a situation because there are clearly corrupt practices ahead of us that all citizens and citizens must see every day reported by a number of media, including what colleague Pavšč stated in the end about air conditioners and businesses that the Minister of Economy has concluded with companies that are in such or other connection with the Slovenian Democratic Party, are things that should not be triggered by alarms, but those which are anti-flooding and sirens for natural disasters. These are such dimensions that it's amazing. This is what the debate should be today. That we have one client, in this country, who is every time he is in power, he takes this country as his own as his own, and he exhausts it and uses it to the best of his ability. The President of the Government, in his past grumbling, also said how much money had been thrown into the bank hole, what had happened to Tesh 6 and so on. For Teš 6, as far as I know the findings of the parliamentary inquiry carried out in the previous term, SDS and Janez Janša also had fingers in between and fingers in marmalade. As far as the bank hole is concerned, when we look at the Bank of Slovenia data, gross public debt has increased by EUR 25 billion since 2004 when it was 15 billion by 2008, when Janša’s mandate ended, to EUR 39 billion. And this move by the Janša government, which overheated the economy, then caused such catastrophic consequences for the crisis that was then created and all the problems that accompanied the resolution of this crisis, to the point that, of course, in 2012 it practically called the troika to literally cut us to the end of this country. That's the thing. And then there were these contacts between the visionaries and the roosters, and then there were these trances, and then there was some transactions with some straw companies from Luxembourg, and so on. At that time, there was also a coming of wealth, even today unexplained of its origin. And we're looking at a similar situation now. As I have already said, the rapid tests have repeatedly explained that these rapid tests obtained by the State from Majbert Pharma do not meet all the conditions and are not reliable enough for their mass use. Today we have a criminal investigation at the National Food and Environment Laboratory because of suspicion that there have been some errors in the issue of these certificates. These certificates, which then enabled these tests to be obtained within the public finances system for about EUR 5 million per year. Not to mention dealing with respirators and those golf clubs, other equipment that was also obtained through the companies of the President of the Government's relatives. Not to mention how some of them are financed as media owned by SDS or in the gravity of SDS, specifically through foreign companies, Hungary, which gives financial injections to the company, which would have been if it had not had these financial injections, long ago in bankruptcy, in order to produce, on the one hand, this factory of lies and drive it forward, on the other hand, that in 2018 it was financed illegally by a foreign party with foreign funds from Hungary. To the fact that people such as Rok Snezič are involved in this government, one of the major people convicted of tax evasion, including tax debtors in this country, who have nothing but a bank account and a permanent address, because they cannot find him, this man, in Slovenia, is driving around with more than a hundred euros worth of masseracy, and also, of course, has money to make a chain of lawsuits against anyone who mentions him. All these things -- people associated with the President of the Government, people who get jobs, for example, ties, people who are in orbit by the President of the Government, are connected in such and different schemes that the media are constantly revealing. In particular, there is a large part of the financing of Nova24, which is drawn from Mr Rastoder, which, during his working time, Franz Breznik, as State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, visits to donate some onions to the municipality of Lenart. I mean, if anyone believes that, then there's got to be something wrong with him. Well, this same company, of course, is funding Novo24. Until then Aleš Hojs, who was long-standing director of two companies producing media or truth on behalf of SDS, Nove24 and, I think, on Democracy, becomes an internal minister who makes such a tsunami on the police and the NPU, so they will not be investigating the government's work for years. And these are the steps and methods by the book of every good criminal in which a mob family is performing. And this hierarchy, which Micah was also talking about at the outset about how this party is structured, is something that only further confirms this matter. And as Franc Trček likes to say, when he once spoke to one of the SDS party's other active members, that this is not a customer, it is a company of one person. The one who said that will recognize himself. But I think that's a fact that we've all understood deeply and deeply in this country in 30 years. I think Janez Janša, as president of a party, is at the top of the world scales after one person has led one party for so long. Then he complains about the one-party system and the eternal mandates during the communist era and so on. The answers, some additional answers to these findings, of course, are not available today. But I think this is a serious problem that the whole society will have to deal with. First chance, first chance I get is April 24th. In November, I asked the President of the Government, at the meeting of the National Assembly, when I asked this question, whether it might not be better to retire, not to resign, but to actually go to political peace and leave this country alone. I think that 30 or more active years in politics have been far enough from the communist union and that the atmosphere may be slightly liberated. So I propose, above all, to all those who may accompany us to take advantage of April 24th for this opportunity to make an end to the old and to actually introduce policy changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether you would like to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Yeah.]] I can see that. I'm opening the application. Please sign in. If the applicant also wishes to discuss it, he shall also apply with the microphone switch. We've got eight interviewees reported. The first is Mr Predrag Baković, followed by Mr Robert Pavšič. Everyone has 3 minutes to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. In fact, today we have been able to listen even retrospectively to some illegal, unorthodox, or past actions to this day. You know, I'm here for my first term. And like many others that you are for the first time, I will not discuss some old matters that are controversial or even illegal. And respectable colleagues, those who have been in this house for a long time, have not wanted, wanted, or had not been able to clean up these indiscretions and to see to it that sanctions are sanctioned, I am the first one to want to sanction and punish those who are guilty of such misdemeanours for TES6, for the bank hole, for NLB financing and so on. But what's the problem? The problem is legislation that has been adapted for 30 years for current events, for current persons and those who have successfully slipped out of some procedures of such savage privatisation that I am not talking about political affairs. And that's what's happening today. The legislation has only adapted to individual cases and has allowed these things to actually happen, such as Patria, TEŠ6, and so on, if you are already exposing them. And such a policy or legislation was then in line with many people. And of course there was collateral damage that you all mentioned today, and that is the Balkan Warrior. I believe the politicians didn't want this to happen, but it did. Why? The Balkan warrior was burdened with evidence obtained by a foreign intelligence service, but, look at it, because we have some standards that rule out that the evidence obtained cannot be based on a finding of foreign intelligence because of some of our ideological or historical matters, so the Balkan warrior has also fallen. This is a collateral damage to our legislation that you have been respected by those who have long been in Parliament, including the co-authors themselves. And today to hang someone's guilt that the Balkan warrior is out there is completely irrelevant. Look back and look at what was actually going on. We all know what was behind the evidence that the Serbian intelligence service had obtained evidence of this story and case. What happened then? It can't be based. We have such standards that our judgment cannot rely on foreign intelligence services and their findings. That's all a fact. And what happens? It happens that all our things fall procedurally. They fall procedurally; not because there is no evidence, not because someone did nothing, but because we found some procedural errors. And I've been warning you all along that it's not necessary to deal with, I'm going to say, these procedural errors in a way that is a complete exclusion of evidence, but that each case is specifically weighed, whether the exclusion of evidence is the one that is important, in order to destroy things, the evidence, or whether it should be continued. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič has the following word, Mr Sonibo Knezak is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	I'm just gonna keep going where my buddy ended up putting his pick. We don't talk about content anymore. We talked for five hours today about corruption and mob governance. In the end, what? Now everything is going to stand in the way of Pavšič violating the Secret Data Act, not about what happened in the last 20 months. And I didn't break it. All things are traceable, Mr Grimes, don't be afraid. All your secrets are still locked deep in the basement of the National Assembly and will remain closed there as long as it is stipulated by law. But since there is a real difference between you and me, I have already mentioned it today, it is that we respect the law, respect the law, whether we like it or not. If we do not like it, we will change it or try to change it, but by then we will respect it. And every fear is really superfluous. The second remaining fear, however, is the continuation of practice; the practice we have witnessed in the last 20 months, the practice we have witnessed in this country for the past 30 years. But today, the subject and debate should not be about the last 30 years but about finding some old, ancient, dinosaur enemies, but the possibility of overlooking today. Of course, it is necessary to deal with a past in order to move forward, but so much so that it is constructive, but not to constantly point out the same things. People – they don't care what happened 30 years ago! We should be interested in what happens tomorrow and what we learned yesterday. This is not the case, because even if we want to deal substantively with you, we can scream until we are dark in front of our eyes, because you know everything and reject all our suggestions and also the proposals of civil society. I just see that, I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, you've passed the Illusive Diseases Act. Why? To block the one made by the civilian sphere? Since you know more, you know everything. And here, too, I can only end up with a dart. No, you don't know everything, nobody knows everything!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Sonibo the Prince has a word behind him. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I was also reported for the discussion earlier, but after this opening presentation or speech by the President of the Government, who, by his historical truth and all the accusations, who is responsible for the situation in the country, from the founding assembly of the year — I think — 1990 to Peterlet, the deep state, Kučana; in short, the mafia civil society, the mafia unions, today I put it all, I thought, Soni, hey, you have nothing to do with this debate. But at the end of the day, I only appreciate myself. What I would like is this first. From the coalition, or from SDS and New Slovenia, it would be right to announce today, in accordance with the advertising rules, that the media sponsor of these shows today is Rado Pezdir and the promotion of his book. You gave it to yourself beautifully, explained it to yourself. Great. That's the right thing to say. What I want to say in this minute is that I am increasingly coming to the realization that what we need in this country is to limit the number of mandates. That I was listening to this national council, what was going on, and what was responsible for today's situation, which happened 30 years ago, is little too much. Excuse me. My children don't care what was 1990, which is the main liberator of this country, we're going to build him a monument, we're doing it to him, I don't know what else. The Americans say that after every battle of the general he fought, they retire, no matter how old he is. They give him a favourable pension, in short, they take him out. We've had a problem with Ivan Janez Janša for 30 years. As colleague Matthew Tašner Vatovec said before – I think it is time to stop burdening the families of our children with John John Janša and with all his nebulos. Of all the things you do, business for friends, for SDS, while the President of the Government cannot explain the origin of his assets – bye-bye! While one of the ministers tells me that paying is stupid, that if necessary, they will also break some judge's balls; and I am one of those who don't judge before they condemn the institution. But, respectable citizens and citizens, judge for yourselves. April, everyone in the polls, and let's say it's the end of this one-on-one. And also, Comrade Pojbich, I deeply agree with you. Lustration would be absolutely necessary in this society, but you would have run out of presidents. The only former communist who is president of the government today in the European Union is your President Ivan Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims has his word, followed by Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you. Look, every problem you talk about, you have to light it up on all sides, not everyone can take it, like, in the case of this data, but one paper that fits him, and you come with it, and you say, that's the whole thing. The whole is to be illuminated on all sides and, of course, on the whole dimension. Well, today, when we're talking about the whole thing, there's also been a lot of talk about buying weapons, and you've made real science about corruption and crime out of this. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the facts. Interestingly, I have said this several times in Parliament. None of the central media has fully said this. Not once. Why? And these are the facts that are documented, and I've already shown the documents, here they are, public, but no one ever publishes this from the central media of course. What's this all about? Who really was the one who committed Slovenia to the purchase of weapons, or specifically armored 8x8? Ladies and gentlemen, this was Tone Rop from LDS, not the one you'd like to announce, but Tone Rop, LDS, the left-wing government was that. Even in so doing, he broke the law by sending a written undertaking to the Secretary-General or then to NATO, without having previously informed the National Assembly and obtaining the appropriate consent required by law. Only later did he go looking for him after he found out about it. Thus, the left government, Tone Rop, committed Slovenia to purchase, even to purchase patriums specifically, later, and in a contrary legal way. Let's move on. Alenka Bratušek then sent a special commitment in 2014 and renewed her commitment to the purchase of arms and armory. Alenka Bratušek, ladies and gentlemen! And then, you won't believe it, there was a choice made for the boxers who are now stressing here, and so did the left government. I think it was her government back then, wasn't it, Alenka Bratushek? Finally, in 2018, Mr Marjan Sarec from LMŠ sent a special commitment to Mr Stoltenberg and committed our country to this purchase. And who kept up, and who was he that set up the government of Marjan Šarc? Left. The one who's supposed to say the most about buying weapons today. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact. The whole gun story, the whole 8x8 armory story, is tied to the left government. And once the SDS rules to preserve Slovenia's reputation abroad, it tries to do what leftist governments have already committed us to, and then you cry out about arms deals and corruption and all that. Just because you, ladies and gentlemen, aren't there. That's your real problem. And for the transfer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, Mr Boris Doblekar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The success of the government is such that they need to be blurred. 7% growth in gross social product, lowest unemployment in the history of Slovenia, better pensions, better salaries for police officers, most money for education and science than ever in the history of Slovenia, billions of investments or plans and laws for investments in health and for older, long-term care, all of this was too much for Levi, for the left-hand side and some work there in the middle, LMŠ to carry this. So you had to come up with something new, some new affair, and this meeting is exactly what it is. Look, Lemahn's Brothers was the one who caused the crisis, but it looks like it's John Janša 2008. And that he does not know how to explain his wealth — he has already done so a hundred times, and you mention and mention it. If you could lock him up for nothing, for an unknown sum, for an unknown place, for an unknown date, unknown to anyone, then if any of this were true, he would have been in prison a long time ago. Investigative committees are working and there are no conclusions yet. This is proof of the rule of law. You are referring to the perception of corruption in 2016. You haven't been able to look at the data yet, and you shot yourself in the knee. It's all one slander, bluffing and drowning. But you're forgetting Iran's money laundering. It's written in here. And this is an ad for that book? You don't have to do commercials for this book, you have to wait for this book, so it's printed fast. There's still nothing about this Iranian money laundering. Drug dealers are out there looking for a diploma, it was not signed on the Internet yesterday, it's already signed today. And you're celebrating the passing of laws that then cause ecological disasters. And you're talking about rapid tests and mass use. See if it is for mass use or for targeted use – they were good for something. But, you know, even if I think it's okay, I don't hope from a safe area to drop off documents or notes and talk about it. I can only talk about what has been said publicly in public broadcasts, but not about what has actually been prepared for the Commission of Inquiry. As for the frame-up, Tone Rop told Jankovic: "I set you up, the politics set you up." So much so that you know who was setting it up politically.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	The following is Mr Boris Doblekar, preparing Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Another of the meetings of populism, another of the meetings, how to defile the government, how to defile the SDS party, how to fight people, how to make a difference in Slovenia. That's the session today. It's a session you don't even care about, because there's nothing in the hall. I've been in there all day, listening to all these rumors, accusations, lies, drownings, half-truths. In short, today's session is like foxes calling for a session to be held from the henhouse by foxes stealing their chickens. That's it! You only called the meeting for one purpose, one reason: how to fight people and how to defile this government. Party SD – proud heirs of the Union of Communists, Yugoslav Party; Levica – nothing else, the same; then these established parties, the nominees, which form each other's elections. Yes, hell, look back and ask yourself where this corruption comes from and all that you're talking about today. From the party economy, which then passed through the transition to today's Slovenia! That's it. You took houses, you beat people's eggs and skulls – yes, your predecessors, you inherit them – you did business through tax havens, you did money laundering, you stole people's houses, villas, you inhabited inside party officials. The president of the state was talking about uncles in the background, which is saying something must already be on it. So you haven't gone to your doorstep, and now you want all of this, since this government, all of your terrible things, or those that you've done before you, to put all of this on this government. You are meeting: Luka Mesec with Kordesh from Forum 21, which he founded, The Servant is happy to meet with Vesel, Jože P. Damian made a deal with the state AIDS bank at the time of the destruction of the government of Janez Janša. You have washed or washed, but you support this, more than a billion money at the Ljubljana Bank. The whistleblower Gale, who brought the affair out of which you are relying today, said the KPK that there are no crimes, and you continue to rumble and honk and repeat and the media behind you and you are doing heartburn in Slovenia. That's all you're after. This populism you're making, these lies, all of what you're doing, how to fight people, share people, black out Slovenia, Slovenes, I have to tell you because I get messages that people really have you. Even those who have supported you so far will not fall for you. People, you've had enough!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	Ms Violeta Tomić and Mr Vojko Starović have the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. From this debate is a perfectly clear mode of SDS operation, which is obviously Mafia. Let me just remind you – I don't know if you've read this whole book that you've been waving all along, but there's also a very thick trilogy on behalf of the country, the patriotism written with the zeros of Blaž Zagaga and Matej Šarc authors. In short, Drnovšek already had, if we go so far back, even a cabinet of evidence about John Janša's criminal affairs collected by the Moget Commission and as you threaten Robert Pavšić today – what happened to Rudy Mohet? He got hit by a speedboat in Dalmatia! Twice! I so hope Robert Pavlovich is alive and well. Now, if you read anything else like Novo24, 5 July 2020, former Yugoslav secret agent Božo Spasić said in an interview – a very extensive one – I will only point out to you that Janez Janša, as a co-worker of the Udba, was always interested in only money and so today. Many of the younger generations do not understand this fascination of the entire SDS party and its leader and Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša with Udba and jugocommunism. We have recently witnessed the true offensive of government ministers and other politicians, who, behind the President of the Government as parrots, are repeating the mantra of the udbomafia and the deep state that is supposed to be a thorn in the fifth of your unlimited power. I suggest a chandelier. Now you have a majority, propose at last once that no one who has been a communist has the right to participate, not in the economy and not in politics, but we will get rid of the SDS once and for all with Janez Janša at the helm. Why don't you take this most of your time? In short, Ivan Kramberger also spoke exactly about you. And Mr Anton Peinkiher tweeted: “Now that the gripping of Janša’s government’s terrible government crime has just begun to unfold in the procurement of protective equipment, Janša and SDS are spitting at the police, that the Udbov and party, although the heavy communist was exactly Janša and by Spasić revealed the wdbovec.” As can be seen from the discussion, we can also see from the time perspective a red thread that has been drawn from the participation of Janez Janša with the Federal State Department, the State Security Service, in this case also through the arms trade, and the Patria affair to the last affair with the purchase of medical equipment. This red thread, however, is only the fact that Janez Jansho was always interested in money. In short, if one person has delusions, I can still understand, but that there are so many people following these delusions, it's probably worth it to you, and for love of bread you do a lot of things when it's proven, but you'll cry out that it's a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Look, today was just a topic that we voted on when our colleague asked the question. Legitimately, Prime Minister. The topic should address some bad practices, some corrupt practices and putting its people in some places, which we definitely, whatever we look at, we all agree that this is not good. That's not good. Corruption is not good to set up people, greenhorns, those who are practically ignorant, amateurs in places, only that it is ours – no matter what matter it is – is not useful for this country. But we're here to work for the common good. Look what happened today. Instead of talking about it – "get a thief", they say, "get a thief" and we go back a hundred years, 30 years ago, 15 years ago. And we pull a book out, when all the truth is, we can also pull that trilogy on behalf of the state, which with the evidence tells us what was going on, and nothing happened. Look, if we go like this, we will not be constructive, and we must not be surprised that the level of respect for this House is far lower than it is for the courts when you had so much to say. I was also disturbed by this way of showing, here, a bank hole, a bank hole. Who made this bank hole? I have to warn you again. From 2004 to 2008, during the first SDS rule, total debt increased by 25 billion. Now he's grown 10 billion again. In doing so, the most prominent economists clearly demonstrate that our debt is growing at twice as fast as in Europe. We've scratched 10 billion again, and before we get this 10 billion, we haven't managed to get rid of that 40 billion, we've restructured a little bit, and we haven't done it yet. So, who dug this hole? The banks were completely under the influence of the state at the time. And who dug the biggest hole? Company, close to SDS: Bell 1, Vegrad, T-2, Bell 2. That's the four biggest diggers in the world. If we didn't go to bury this hole, people would be out of work, more companies would go down, people would take houses, apartments, and so on. So, don't mess with these things. This debt is becoming a terrible thing for us, and I think this meeting was on the spot, but it's a shame that it sounded empty, that we haven't found ways to get rid of such practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and this item on the agenda. We're moving to six. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — FOR ANOTHER DEFINITIVE DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE FINAL JUDGMENT OF THE AMBITARY COURT UNDER THE ARBITAR AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA IN THE FIELD PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for further explanation of the bill. Mr Aleš Irgolič, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	Madam President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Act on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgment of the Court of Arbitration under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted for the first time. 11. 2017. The Amendment Act was adopted 26. 9. 2019. The Act itself was adopted with the aim of declaring the final judgment on arbitration between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in view of the establishment of a border on land and sea between the Member States for the preservation of certain rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. During this period, since the final judgment on arbitration between Slovenia and Croatia by the Court of Arbitration in The Hague in 2017 until the end of 2017, there have been numerous incidents between Slovenian fishing vessels and Croatian fishing and police vessels in accordance with the arbitration ruling of the Republic of Slovenia. Croatian vessels made it difficult for Slovenian fishermen to fish, and there was also a high probability of causing damage. Since it was envisaged that at the end of the year when the six-month moratorium had passed, matters would not be settled, articles had been introduced referring to compensation for material damage on a fishing vessel and compensation for income loss. Given that the situation in arbitration is not yet complete, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food we postponed the amendments to the law for two years, until the end of 2023. During this period, financial consequences are expected to result from damage of €730 000. All means to implement the proposed amendment will be provided within the limits of the financial plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. I therefore give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Predrag Bakovic, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 28th session. 12. as a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Commission of the State Council for National Organisations and the Legislative and Legal Service. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Aleš Irgolič said that the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court, under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, had been adopted with the aim of declaring the final judgment in the arbitration between Slovenia and Croatia on the establishment of land borders and maritime borders between the countries of the institutions for the preservation of certain rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Since Croatian fishing vessels do not carry out fishing in accordance with the legislation applicable in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, damage to the fishing gears of Slovenian fishermen may occur. Regular fishing of Slovenian fishermen may also be hampered. The Act therefore provided that the holders of fishing licences were entitled to compensation in the amount of the damage caused by damaged fishing gears or fishing vessels from foreign vessels and to compensation for the loss of income. By amending the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters in view of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement, the validity of the provisions of this Act was extended already in 2019 in the work governing the compensation of operators for economic fishing licences for two years, that is to say until the end of 2021, as the situation at sea has not changed. This bill, however, is once again proposed to extend the amendments to the law for a further two years, until the end of 2023. The possibility of receiving compensation for damage caused by a foreign vessel and the compensation for the loss of lost income due to the obstacle to economic fishing is thus extended by two additional years. The representative also said that the financial implications of the draft law were estimated at EUR 730 000 and the funds would be provided in the preparation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022, 2023 and 2024 under the limits of the financial plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the proposed text. The proposal for a law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee voted, without discussion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all articles of the draft law together and also adopted them. Since amendments, the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Government of the National Assembly have not been adopted to the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have not been adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Andrej Reich, will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u151	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The Act, which we are considering today, was adopted in 2017 with the aim of regulating the preservation of certain rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as a result of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal. As a result of the incidents that took place at sea in accordance with the Arbitral Judgment of Slovenia, provisions have been introduced in the law to enforce compensation for damage. This is a compensation for holders of economic fishing licences for damage caused by a foreign vessel and for the loss of income due to an obstacle to economic fishing. The situation hasn't calmed down until today. And since foreign vessels are still present in the Slovenian Sea, an extension of the amendments to the law has already been adopted for two years, and this year the Ministry of Agriculture has proposed an extension until 2023, and this proposal is under consideration today. However, in the SAB, we still regret that the Republic of Croatia is still persistently rejecting the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, which it is reporting in a rather disrespectful manner. Slovenia could use the asset to implement the arbitration ruling, which is to allow Croatia to travel freely to Schengen. The entry of Croatia into the Schengen area would indeed be a great relief for Slovenia. However, in the SAB we are persistently advocating the rule of law and we want the arbitration ruling between Slovenia and Croatia to be consistently respected and also implemented in practice. Such a view is also based on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which almost two years ago stated that the Parties to the Arbitration Agreement must do their utmost to carry out the arbitral ruling. In the SAB we do not agree that Slovenia is a second-class country. We have repeatedly asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in particular, questions about the implementation of the ruling on the border between Slovenia and Croatia, but we have repeatedly witnessed the lack of response and the transfer of responsibility. At the beginning of the current government's mandate, it was mentioned that this issue would be resolved through silent diplomacy. The fact is, even in the last two years, almost nothing has changed significantly in this area and with which Slovenia could achieve compliance with the arbitration agreement. Moreover, despite the unresolved border issue, Croatia appears to have even succeeded in a breakthrough and will be given a green light to enter the Schengen area. Although the proposed changes will not resolve this issue, because the law follows the principle of the greatest benefit of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we will not oppose it in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will be next in line to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Act on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgment of the Court of Arbitration under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 30 December 2017. The proposed amendments extend the period of application of the law for a further two years. The main reason for the extension is that Croatian fishing vessels do not fish in accordance with the legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia. Operators of an economic fishing authorisation may therefore, in the exercise of their activities, suffer damage from foreign vessels on the fishing gear and on a fishing vessel or, as a result, may suffer the loss of regular income and are therefore entitled to compensation. The amendment of the law extended the validity of the provisions governing refunds on holders of marketing authorisations by two years, i.e. by the end of this year, by the end of 2019. The regulation is now being extended for a further two years, until the end of 2023. In this way, the possibility of receiving compensation for damage caused by a foreign vessel and the compensation for the loss of lost income resulting from the disruption of economic fishing shall also be extended. This includes a total of 71 fishing vessels of a total length of 540 metres, which means that the average length of the fishing vessel is 7.60 metres. This is also extremely significant and sad information on the potential and perspective of the Slovenian economic fisheries sector. The financial implications of the bill are estimated at EUR 730 000 and the funds will be provided in the preparation of the budgets under the financial plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The proposed amendment of the law follows the principle of the greatest benefit of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will therefore support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Certainly, the adoption of any such law is a moment when it is considered that arbitration, as such, was essentially a punishment for Slovenia for the reckless conduct of the then government under the leadership of the SD, which has declared quite publicly – and even in English sent it abroad – a blockade of Croatia. At the time, we had doubts in the SDS. Unfortunately, we have been over-voted and today the arbitration agreement is a fact. The arbitration agreement, implemented in the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, which was further bound by the conduct of that then leftist government and the people who acted irresponsibly and for which no one was actually responsible, was a permanent one for Slovenia and I fear that irreparable damage was caused. Today, we are correcting this law for the people — for our people, for them — just what we can get rid of. This is because of the disrespect or disregard of Slovenian legislation on the Croatian side, of course, there is a real possibility that damage may occur on vessels or equipment of Slovenian fishermen, on the other hand, as well as the real possibility of their income being lost. Therefore, the possibility of receiving adequate compensation by the State of Slovenia in the event of damage is extended for a further two years. This leads to the greatest possible benefit for Slovenian citizens in given legal conditions that bind us. Because this is about us, about Slovenia, about our people, we will be united in supporting this law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija is next. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u157	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. The amendment of the law amends the period for which the marketing authorisation holder may grant compensation for material damage to a fishing vessel or vessel, and the period for which the marketing authorisation holder may apply for compensation for an obstacle to economic fishing. Both measures are due to the fact that the final judgment of the Court of Arbitration in The Hague has not yet been fully implemented today. Four and a half years after the arbitral tribunal definitively established the border between Slovenia and Croatia, this decision has not yet been fully implemented. Moreover, Slovenian diplomacy simply ignores this issue and quietly even approves Croatian unilateral moves. Instead of free fishing for our fishermen, Minister Logar does not particularly challenge attempts by the Croatian exclusively economic zone. The final arbitration verdict is ignored by Prime Minister Janez Janša almost as persistently as the bodies of the fugitives in Dragoja and Kolpa. Because of the sanding of our heads, as is the case with the current government, there is nothing left to do but extend the time limits for the damage caused to fishermen. However, it is a fact that the consistent avoidance of the debate and the discussions on this issue harms Slovenia and its interests and the interests of its citizens and citizens. The crown crisis simply cannot be and must not be a valid reason for being passive in this area. Nor should there be a reason for the passivity of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU, which should also be made better use of. The proposal for amendments because it saves the hardships of specific people on the ground and covers the damage they have suffered without their own guilt, so we will not oppose it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u159	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! The Act on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgment of the Court of Arbitration pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 2017 and applied when the State border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia was registered in the State Border Register on the basis of an arbitral tribunal ruling. The purpose of the law is to give effect to the principle of equal treatment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia whose rights and obligations have been affected by the judgment, so as to preserve as far as possible the rights enjoyed by them until the judgment is declared. However, for those rights for which they are deprived, it introduces an appropriate compensation. Since Croatian fishing vessels do not carry out fishing in accordance with the Slovenian legislation applicable in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, damage to the fishing gears of Slovenian fishermen can also be prevented by economic fishing. The Act therefore provides that holders of fishing licences are entitled to compensation in the amount of damage caused by damage to fishing gears or fishing vessels from foreign vessels and compensation for loss of income. As early as 2019, the provisions of the Act in force governing compensation to operators for economic fishing licences were extended for two years, i.e. until the end of 2021. Since the situation has not changed, the new bill proposes to renew the amendment of the law for a further two years, until 2023. Therefore, following a new proposal, the beneficiaries of compensation for material damage to the fishing gear or vessel shall be compensated for the damage caused within six years of the application of this Act. They're being compensated for damage done by 2023. The period shall also be extended in respect of the refund on the account of the economically deprived fishing. The holder of an economic fishing authorisation shall be entitled to compensation for the loss of income due to the disruption of economic fishing at sea for a period of six years from the date of application of this Act. In Novi Slovenija we advocate respect for all accepted international obligations, so Slovenia remains committed to this agreement and to the decision of the arbitral tribunal. The neighbourly relations between Slovenia and Croatia have improved over the past two years, but we still believe that there remains a potential for better cooperation between countries, which we will achieve only by swearing differences. Members of New Slovenia will unanimously support the Act on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 15 December, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi, to further explain the proposal. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u161	The esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members, honourable Members! The realisation of tax revenues in the period from January to November 2021 increased by 19.8 per cent or 387 million compared to 2020; compared to 2019 when there was no covid year, by 5.7 per cent or 455 million. The realisation of the income we are talking about today has increased by 327 million in 2021 and 31.9 percent in comparison with 2020 and 13.2 in 2019, when the normal year was without co-vids; this is worth 158 million. On this basis, according to income growth and other tax revenues, the government is proposing amendments to the Income Act. By increasing the overall relief from the current 3 000 500 per year by EUR 1 000 to EUR 7 000 500 in 2025. Gradually every year for a thousand euros. This will ensure that the incomes necessary for human life are not taxed. Such a solution will also increase the net wages or net earnings of people, the population. This will, of course, also increase competitiveness and ensure sustainable economic growth. In addition, the solutions proposed by the Government are also the administrative burden of calculating income both in the case of advances and in the case of contributions from self-employed persons. At the same time, it wants to encourage investment in the clean environment and in digital investment – we are also talking, of course, about the abolition of the tax on the use of electric motor vehicles for private purposes – and, of course, the objective is a carbon-free society or this is only a modest contribution to ensuring a carbon-free society by 2050. It is a matter of fairness that, when inflation or price rises, automatic coordination of incentives and net annual tax base is introduced in the income scale and, of course, in this respect, we will adjust all the adjustment scales according to the price increase coefficient. At the same time, we propose to reduce the maximum tax rate from the current 50 per cent to 45 per cent, to reduce the rate of income from capital from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent, to reduce the period of holding capital from the current 20 years to the 15 years of holding, to reduce the revenue from renting of assets by reducing the tax rate to 15 per cent and, of course, to reduce the percentage of standardised costs in this respect. In addition, the Government proposes what has now not been in receipt and what the previous governments have not actually paid attention to, the exemption of income from school funds, the exemption of income from income from family pension children and the so-called senior relief. As a result of favourable economic growth and reducing unemployment, we estimate that all measures will have a lower impact on public finances, including a lower impact than the initial assessment. Gross social product is 7.4 per cent higher in the first nine months of 2021 than in the same period last year and, of course, income in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 40th meeting, on 1 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC members to the ninth articles and the Left Party to the sixteenth article of the bill. In the opening presentation, the Minister of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill based on helping the economy and the population recover from the pandemic. In doing so, he highlighted as key the tax burden on labour income, capital and rental incomes, the changes in certain benefits related to business income and the introduction of a new green and digital transition facility. Regarding the financial implications of the draft state budget bill, he said that the proposed solutions would reduce income income from income, but at the same time increase the income available to the population, thus increasing consumption and thus revenue from the state budget. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted some of the comments made in the written opinion, in particular regarding the lack of explanation of the proposed solutions to the bill. She explained that this was particularly important in complementing the Regulation in the field of facilitation, since it was a matter of content which could raise the issue of compliance with the principle of equality referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Slovenia. A representative of the Council of State also participated in the meeting, explaining that the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, some members of the committee opposed the proposed solutions to the law. They considered that the proposed solutions in practice would mean reducing the financial contribution of the more wealthy to the state budget, increasing wealth and social disparities among the population, increasing social inequality and relative poverty, and undermining social solidarity. The discussion drew attention to the negative consequences in terms of the impact on the revenue of the State budget and on the increase or increase in already such a high public deficit and public debt. The view was expressed that any interference with income as an extremely important tax source of the state budget in the current situation was excessively risky. This also highlighted the role of income as the most important source of funding for local self-government and the related issue of municipal financial autonomy. On the contrary, some other members and members of the committee supported the bill. In doing so, they pointed out that the proposed solutions would be to relieve labour and help the economy and the population recover from the pandemic. In doing so, they stressed that the solutions are prepared on the basis of analyses and economic forecasts in order to help raise the wages of all workers and create prosperity and economic recovery. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance provided answers to the questions raised and further presented some of the solutions envisaged in the draft law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups and has adopted all amendments. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 26th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a discussion on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Joze Lenart. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u165	Yes, Joze Lenart, there will be no mistake. If I understand correctly, it is possible to discuss this article a little wider, Vice-President, that there will then be no interruption Now of course [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u166	Excuse me? What kind of misunderstanding? [[advertising from the hall]] We have amendments to Article 3 and the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. See, the Income Act, which we have today on the agenda, of course, has a significant impact on the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, future budgets, and therefore, of course, we need to draw attention to these negative impacts at a time when we are in this epidemic. Unfortunately, we need to re-emphasize the large deficit so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u168	Comrade Lenart, that there will be no misunderstanding, the amendment refers to Article 3, not the general debate. I propose that you hold a debate in accordance with the amendment tabled. You have electric vehicles, ratings, if I simplify, and that's what this is about. The rest were carried out in the general debate held in October and on the working body which dealt with the law from article to article, on 1 December. Now it's just concrete.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u169	Yeah, well, then I'll give it up. For the meaning of this would be to draw attention once again to the negative effects on the budget ahead of us. And so partial then it doesn't make sense that we're talking today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. That's the rules. [[advertising from the hall]] On the other hand, as regards the position, you will be able to explain your vote when there is a vote on the law. The procedure is first of all Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to remind you that, both in committees and in plenary meetings, in the second reading of the law, it is always allowed to hold a general debate on Article 1 and not just a debate on amendments. I have not seen such practices in this house in seven years and I do not see the need to change them today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u172	Mr Luka Mesec, the rule of procedure is quite clear: “In the second reading of the draft law, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the individual articles to which amendments have been tabled and the vote on individual amendments”. This is a business provision that has been in force for almost 20 years. What's allowed, I don't know, I mean, I don't care either. I told you that we will have a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First, Micah Kordish has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, chairman. There is no individual article of the law without the whole law and there is no whole law without the political and social context in which this law is adopted. Parliamentary practice has therefore been established in the past to allow such a context, namely the law itself and society, to be dealt with in the course of the debate even under an individual amendment, in the case of the first amendment submitted to the law, where a general debate is, in fact, allowed. It is not that you, presidents, would not know about this parliamentary practice, because you are practically inventory in the National Assembly, you have been here for so long. You know this parliamentary practice very probably better than most of this reference to the National Assembly. It is that you do not want to take account of the established practices and thus confuse the democratic debate. And, Presidents, I call on you in my procedural proposal to conduct this meeting properly, as necessary, and to allow debates with appropriate breadth, as has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It's nice of you to remind me of Parliamentary practice or the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I told you at the outset that we will hold a debate in accordance with the business provisions. If there is any problem with these business provisions, I suggest that you prepare an amendment to the provisions relating to the second reading of the bill in the National Assembly, as well as a third if you wish. There is a procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure and you can also propose certain amendments if the solutions that have been written down and are valid for 20 years do not correspond to you. The port of the moon is the next to have a procedural proposal. Are you giving up, fellow moon? Procedural proposal, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, chairman. Parliamentary practice is not something that would be formed either completely contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or as an individual framework for action by an individual parliamentary group, party or party. This is something that can be formed exclusively through a continuous process and with the de facto consensus of the entire National Assembly. Otherwise, we would fire at the beginning of virtually any treatment with procedural proposals. Thus, it is not a special motivation that I myself would draw out of the air, but it is that we have a way of working in this national assembly. Also at points where no comma and dot can fully cover it – practice is especially helpful here. And I do not think that it is the place of individual president to go against this kind of steady work just because it simply suits him and his political group to silence or to silence all other political voices in this national assembly. Which is exactly what happens consistently under your presidency of any meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u176	Colleague Kordish, if anything were related to parliamentary practice, would then be found in those points relating to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in individual articles. What you're reading to me is not explained in the rules of procedure either. You can look at everything and read it, it's not. Parliamentary practice is covered in this part. I now propose that we proceed with the meeting. [[advertising from the hall]] I will no longer give you repeated procedural proposals, I will not give you another word. Okay. If it's wrong, then you'll have consequences. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you, Chairman. If everything holds up as you say, and by so doing I think I can complete a series of procedural interventions, which unfortunately became a series, the form of this kind of meeting management, then we have to point out the following. If it were to hold what you say about the more general debate and how there is no basis in parliamentary practice in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and so on, look at it as a fraction, then this is something that would apply universally. It's not universal. It is specifically linked to you as President, but it is not always because there are very different standards of treatment here, either that Member of the Left speaks or that Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party to which you belong.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u178	My friend Kordish. I suggest you make a procedural proposal. We're not going to Parliament here about what anyone thinks or what someone's explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u179	Yeah, my procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u180	The first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure is clear. You can read it out loud. I hope you understand him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u181	I don't think the president has a basis in the rules of procedure where he could just fall into the word. I will therefore continue to submit my procedural proposal concerning the fact that yes; firstly, to allow a proper broad debate, so that it can reasonably explain the content of the individual articles, as a more general debate is allowed in the initial amendments to the law, and secondly, that the meeting is conducted in the same vats for all, but not by a silhouette for the Members of the Left and the Vatika for the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u182	My friend Kordish, I do not accept this criticism. For this particular insult I am giving you a reminder. We continue with the reported debaters. Luka Moon won't discuss it. Neither did Dejan Jedhan. [[advertising from the hall]] Bo? Port of the Moon, you have the floor. Diane Jedhan is giving up. Here, you have the word to the amendment, to Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u183	Yes, thank you very much, but I can discuss it. We have tabled an amendment to Article 3, which states that the article is deleted. In Article 3, however, there are two matters which essentially indicate the direction of this whole law. The first thing is that the value of the personal motor vehicle rating provided by the employer is reduced to zero to the employee. The second point is that the tax base on which the income from the employment income obtained by the employee by exercising the right to an option is reduced to 65 per cent. These two solutions show the direction the law is moving. On the one hand, they say that this rating is for passenger motor vehicles, when it comes to electric vehicles and lowers them to nothing, ratings to make it easier for people to get to electric cars, but it's actually cars that will be purchased by company owners, i.e. employers. There are not many companies in Slovenia where the employer would buy his employee an electric car. These vehicles are usually bought for corporate management. And the lowering of ratings does not mean that everyone will benefit from it, but will benefit the owners of businesses, i.e. the upper layer. Secondly, when we talk about options, options are the right to acquire shares in companies. We also know that it is not used in general to reward employees, but it is an instrument most often used by managers or, if any, by some high-tech companies that rewards the best paid developers, engineers and so on. So this whole law, as this article suggests, is going in the direction of unloading almost exclusively the best paid in this country. The effects are clear. If we look at these two solutions and compare them with what the law generally brings, we will see a clear parallel. The law, when the monthly rate rises or when the general annual relief in Slovenia rises and lowers the income for the highest income class, will have the effect that the minimum worker will receive more than €13 per month and someone with a salary of €10 000 gross 112 more [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u184	A fellow moon, an amendment. Not a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u185	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u186	That was all done. About the amendment. This has nothing to do with the overall relief now. Stick to the amendment and the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u187	No, no, no. This amendment needs to be put in context, I apologize. I cannot discuss the amendment unless I put it in the context of this law. This amendment is, I mean, this article is part of a law that needs to be said about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u188	Logically, otherwise [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u189	I'm just proving my point that this amendment, as a whole of law, means nothing more than lowering taxes on the best-paid countries in the trench. And that's the problem. We are discussing how this law will make it possible to transfer €800 million from the public treasury into the hands of a few percent of the best paid. In particular, in the hands of the best paid percentages: among pensioners with the highest pensions; among managers who can afford and will no longer have to pay credits; among those who are among the 4000 300 best paid in Slovenia – these are in the upper income class, 4 000 300 people – among the owners of the apartments they rent, and among those who use the shares options they can serve share options, they are said to be rewarded with options in their companies. This is the content of this law and this amendment deletes two of these options: rating for service vehicles and reduction of taxation options.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] I see there's more interest. We'll start the application process. First he gets the word Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. I wasn't even sure if I could apply for a word in view of the restrictive conduct of this session, but I obviously succeeded, for at least the first ten seconds of my debate. Thus, the whole Income Law is written for the privileges of capital owners and rich and brings common value to the taxation of EUR 800 million, as far as the state budget is concerned. This is 800 million euros that will disappear from the development agendas for the social state; in short, for the things we need in this country. The instruments through which he does it are quite rich and quite diverse. This main part of taxing the rich raises the general tax relief and lowers the taxation of the highest wages. Then he's still here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u192	Comrade Kordish, please focus on the debate on the amendment and the article to which you have tabled the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u193	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u194	The general debate was concluded, if I am not mistaken, on 26 October, on 1 December, you discussed this at a meeting of the Committee on Finance. From Article to Article. Now we're only talking about, I'm going to put in quotations, "reduction corrections" in the individual articles to which the amendments are tabled. We've got the corrections on the table. Not a general debate and stick to it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u195	One minute of my debate, however, has already intervened with his excessive wisdom, Mr Tanko, just as I passed on to a concrete amendment after a one-minute introduction. And this amendment is in no way an editorial correction, unless certain political options in this national assembly have the idea that 30 million euros is an editorial that can be done just as little as it seems. It is precisely this 30 million euro item that is included in this amendment; 30 million would lose our social income country every year, if taxed, to purchase electric vehicles for management in individual companies. These are the projections and positions of Janez Janša’s own government, which drafted this law. The current regulation in this area is that a manager who benefits from the service vehicle's own needs should pay the income from the credit rating for the use of a motor vehicle of EUR 7 000 500 per year. Well, according to the new – and this is a government gift – he won't have to pay anything. Thus, the manager will receive an additional EUR 7 000 500 in addition to the new electric service vehicle. How many such measures can a regular worker be expected to pay a minimum wage? Madam, who works in a store, or an industrial worker in a production hall, after all, all employees who maintain our senior citizens' homes have paid classes placed below the minimum wage level and so on. Zero! Exactly zero. Here we are talking about electric vehicles, at what purchase prices there are more than ten thousand euros, including 100,000 euros. Of course, companies — those who can afford it — will devote such investments only to their management, in addition to their already high wages, and this is hardly any measure that ordinary workers would benefit from. This is all the more important in the light of the fact that the Government defines and advocates the taxation of electric vehicles for management as a green policy. But green policy is not achieved through tax exemptions, benefits and services for the richest people in this society. After all, there are only a few. It reaches them through a broad social transition to sustainable environmental organisation. And in the field of transport, this is not summed up in an electric car, but in public transport. That public transport that has been undernourished for decades in this country — let's just look at the devastating state of our railways. This public transport, which depends on the state budget and on the revenue paid to it by taxes. The same public transport, which will run out of €30 million, will be pushed under the government's green cover by the management caste in this country. This is not a measure for any environmentally sustainable transport transition, it is a measure to further subsidise managers and rich people. Anyone who really thought green traffic was serious in this country would know that it is necessary to do exactly the opposite of what is written in this law. So, not more tax advantages and credit ratings for rich people, but even though these are hidden in electric cars, but additional revenues into the state budget with higher taxes on high value assets: capital, the highest wages, which certainly include managers' wages, and then increasing public investment in the development of public infrastructure that we do not have in this country as well as it should be. Here we talk about sustainable mobility; trains, buses, bicycles and cycling routes and so on. Moreover, even if we stayed on the subject of electric cars, it would be far more efficient and productive if, with these 30 million euros, which the Government is now giving to the management, we created a public non-profit institution where people could, under non-profit conditions, take electric cars for some of their needs occasionally for hire and hire. This would have already contributed much more to the fact that we are already rewarding the privileged management caste with these 30 million euros, of course at the expense of the social state's budget. Because no matter how we turn and turn, one bus — no matter how old it is — with 50 seats still has a more favourable environmental picture than 50 individuals, each with its own electric car.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. All the others, the Minister and colleagues and colleagues, are very well greeted! Although I do not understand the proposal for this article or the withdrawal of the article, because whenever we have a debate on the Green Break-in, environmentalists, it is always in Levican that the most environmentalists and NGOs working in this area are brought and invited to the National Assembly. That is why I think that today's true duality has been shown mainly because, here with this article, the Government is promoting green, and it is encouraging that we keep the environment as clean as possible. And this is no thesis, as Ambassador Kordish has deceived me before me. Because this is about switching vehicles to electric vehicles and promoting as many electric vehicles as possible. In fact, this article would reduce pollution and what it wants to prove to be the case for certain specific entrepreneurs; no, this article also refers to independent entrepreneurs, including those who are always advocated by Levica in the National Assembly. There is no separation between entrepreneurs with a lot of capital and those with little capital. This Article shall apply to all persons. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Replica, Luca Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I think we've been clear enough to explain. Money that goes to purchases of these electric vehicles or that will be lost because they will not pay the credit, could go to public goods that would actually have a positive environmental impact: railway construction, public transport modernisation or the possible establishment of a public network of electric vehicles for rent. All three options are significantly better than personal property or the personal use of our own electric car, because if we are to talk this way, we need to know the following. 40 percent of Slovenian greenhouse gases come out of traffic and we will not solve this problem by replacing 1.1 million cars, as much as the Slovenian roads now carry on gasoline and diesel, with 1.1 million cars with batteries. These cars also have a huge environmental footprint. The car, as the manufacturers said, produces half its emissions as soon as you buy it. In fact, car production is an energy waste and also cars that will use lithium-ion batteries, we need to know that it is not in any way a friendly technology, and even less a solution that we could use in the sense that all of us who drive diesel or petrol cars today will be in the future on the same scale as our own electric cars. More sustainable forms of transport will need to be discussed: cycling, walking more on foot; establishing public rental networks of electric cars. This already exists in Slovenia – I, for example, use it – and this reduces the number of cars that a society needs for its mobility and, of course, builds environmental sustainability. After all, it will also be necessary to discuss the setting up of decent rail transport in Slovenia after more than 30 years, which eventually exists in all Western European countries. If you're going to the Netherlands, driving there on the train is no big deal, and we know how it is. The train only goes on exceptionally, no matter how Slovenian railways are now trying to take action, that if I am not wrong during the weekend I can with an 80 percent reduction [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I propose that we remain on road transport and on the solution presented and also on your proposal on railways for a second time. Miha Kordish, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you. As I said before, even if we take the most unmistakable — the oldest bus we can imagine, with 50 seats, this is still more people-friendly than the environment, as is 50 electric cars. So, 50 cars, even if they're electric, for some kind of management caste. Developed companies are not the ones where each manager has his own electric car, but those where public transport is so well arranged that they even use it rich. However, in order to reach such a society, we need instead of the debt that we read in this law, on the contrary - better, higher progressive taxes for the rich and for capital, which can create some sustainable mobility from bicycles, cycling routes to buses and trains to finance and sustain. Pika, it's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you, Chairman. Two, three sentences around this income payment from the credit rating for the use of a service car. I must say that this article addresses a problem that is not at all present. For the past 16 years, I have worked in the human resources service, was the leader of this in the larger business system, and was also involved in the conclusion of so-called individual contracts, which usually includes service cars. And all those who agree to do business under individual contracts, when they answer for a service car, demand that it be “on top”. What does "on top" mean? That there is also an increase in wages for the amount of ratings, so there are extremely few people who pay or have an adequate increase in their salary. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, on the basis of what my predecessor said, it is by no means the amount of 30 million that is linked to this article. It was well said that we are only talking about that when an employer or independent entrepreneur buys a vehicle for official purposes and can be used by that employee or independent entrepreneur in the afternoon, outside of business time, this was considered in our Slovenian legislation for ratings. As you remember, it was counted years ago — I don't know if it is yet — when an important Slovenian entrepreneur said that one coffee per automat employee was allowed, but if they got two in one recognised company, the other coffee should be considered as a rating that this worker gets. You see, it's that craze left or all the advocates of higher taxation. When we pay taxes to workers, we tax those who actually pay taxes with high amounts — where will we go? Either they get away from us or they cheat. And we don't want that. But we want the country to have its own – what has been said? The emperor himself — and the remaining amount, which was firmly and honestly burned, should continue in the story. And that is the purpose of this article. Unless we know that Levica is only a signatory to this article, that this is already part of theirs – we will support all companies; those who are successful, who can afford new cars. But since I know it won't, I'm against deleting this article and this arrangement in the new Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The Luke Moon replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you. Actually, I'd start with a procedural one. You're stopping us for every dot, and there's a colleague on the other side talking some nonsense about how Levican will support all the companies that are not in our program, not in our rhetoric, not anywhere, and you haven't even reminded him. That's, that's those double standards. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u208	Dude, do you have a replica or do you have a procedural one? You won't take your word for it here. You asked for a replica. I gave you a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u209	That's it. I'll continue with the replica, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u210	And I'm giving you a reminder because you're not talking about a replica, you're talking about a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u211	At first, I said I'd give you a procedural reminder. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u212	Look, you asked for a replica and I gave you a replica. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u213	Look, my time is running out, and I'm asking you not to jump into my word while my microphone is on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u214	As chairman, my fellow moon, I can remind you of this. You asked for a replica and you got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u215	You've been to me three times in this minute. Thank you very much. Otherwise, I'd say the following. No one here is talking about the need to tax workers more. This was another of these things that a colleague is saying in mind and outside of this article has not been warned. Nobody talks about paying more taxes. This article, which is discussed, speaks of two things. The first thing is about car ratings, electric vehicles, EUR 7 000 500, which, as Soniboy said earlier, will go to the top of the management layer; it is said to pay an additional EUR 7 000 500. The other thing is about stock options, so we're saying stock options that we're dealing with. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u216	Share options are the following amendment, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u217	No, the stock options are in Article 3, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u218	Article 4(4) They're an amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u219	Please, four. The article refers to a possible payment for business performance and benefits in nature, not only in money, but Article 3 has these two parts; the first part is cars and the second part is share options. The second part, however, speaks of shares options that are again paid by more or less managers and are already taxed less than work is taxed because it is income from capital. Now this tax goes down by a third. And here we are talking about taxation of more than or less than one percent of the best paid people in Slovenia. So much for the first replica. And secondly, I'm really asking you, before you start talking nonsense like that next time, what at least the Left should support to read our program.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u220	Wait a minute. Luka Mesec, I ask that the debates are respectful of our colleagues. [[advertising from the hall]] Your colleagues say stupid things, but you never react. Be consistent! I won't let him downplay here. The debate of anyone must be correct. First, he has a procedural proposal from Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you, Chairman. Where was your reference to the correctness of the good three minutes ago when a fellow member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, who belongs, spoke in his intervention to the left and right about some nationalisations, and I do not know what else, and with such misinterpretations of our programming content he wanted to frighten independent entrepreneurs, who are mostly, in fact, workers and not some strong capitalists, as is the case with some large foreign corporation?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u222	I'm asking you to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u223	My procedural proposal is, President, that you conduct this meeting properly. However, not to stop a colleague of Luke Moon after 20 seconds of his replica, jump into his word, devour our already modestly measured time in the parliamentary group, but then someone who belongs to your political option can speak nonsense left and right and nothing to anyone. And then to conclude, you continue to stop your colleague Luke Moon by calling for a discussion on things that are not even in a legal article, and it turns out that you yourself do not know the content of this article. 10 minutes ago, however, we listened to how we should discuss this article, not the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u224	Miha Kordish, I give you a reminder to others. I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u225	Comrade Chairman, smile. Please conduct this session properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u226	I'm running a proper session. You've talked about a lot of things in this case before. One part I warned you, one part you went through – I didn't stop you. Be right for everyone, not just looking at your current benefits. I'm asking if he wants to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, the minister has another word. Here you go, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Only an explanation given that different terms were used in the debate for whom this tax or exemption is intended, such as the owners of the company, I quote, “managers and so on”. And in this respect, I would like to inform everyone that the law does not distinguish between such characteristics of individual people, such as owners, managers and so on. The law also treats all taxpayers equally. Second of all, it's not about lowering taxes on state-owned looting. The philosophy of this marriage is quite the opposite. Taxes are paid by people, and that is essentially the money of the people the country uses for them. In short, the law is not for managers, here all are equal by law; neither the leaders nor the rich are actually separated here. The financial impact of this rating is not estimated at 30 million, but at 2 million, but it depends, of course, on how many people buy electric cars. The law is designed to get a carbon - free society as soon as possible, but it is also a symbolic significance for such cars or a motor for such cars. And if, on the one hand, the state is talking about us coming into a carbon-free society, then something really needs to be done. Just that much to explain, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Replics? Debate? [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you. We were more than obviously misunderstood. In fact, no one claims that this law does not apply to all the same. This law applies to all things in the same way, except that for those who are rich, it has far more generous provisions than for those who are poor. We can call it equality, but there is no way that we can call it justice. And with the same scale, this law allows individual companies to buy their own management electric cars, which have a log for 100,000 euros, as it allows businesses to do so for individual workers on minimum wages. Will the worker get his body? He won't. Will the manager get the paddle? Bo. Will there be 30 million euros coming out of the state budget on this account? So do I.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Luka Moon, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you. The effect of this law is quite clear. If you make a thousand euros gross a month, you'll get 13 euros, if you make 10,000 gross, you'll get 130 euros. So the equality of this marriage is, if I paraphrase a little bit, that famous one. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u232	Comrade Moon, that's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u233	Yeah, it is, it's a replica of the fact that the law doesn't have the same effect on all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u234	It's a replica. Stick to the content. What happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u235	I'm replicating the minister who said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u236	Stick to the topic of the amendment you tabled. You probably know what this is about and where the Minister didn't get you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u237	Can you stop jumping into my word? Look, I haven't had a single debate without you jumping into my word for 20 seconds. This is no holding of a meeting, this is a simple hazing of a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u238	My fellow moon, I give you a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] As for the debates, you know exactly what a replica is according to the rules of procedure - if the minister or anyone does not understand you correctly. And I don't know where he didn't get you. Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, chairman. It happened again that after fighting for 20 seconds you intervened in the replica of Comrade Mesca. Why? You're the only one who knows that. You're referring to certain powers you don't even have, you've been stealing from us such modestly time we have in the class. This is not the holding of a session, this is the abuse of holding a meeting to burden the opposition, because you don't like the opposition because you're not Democrats. This is about how this tax law works. For the privileged it strengthens additional privileges, for everyone else there is Jože Tanko with a bookie who takes your word [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u240	My friend, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u241	So my procedural proposal, once again, is obviously not even the last time in today's session, to hold a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to conduct it properly as it is. The fact that after 20 seconds of discussion, you jump into someone's word that he's not a cannon or anything like that is simply a hair drawn and excruciating abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u242	Comrade Kordish, I'm meeting in accordance with the rules of procedure. It is my duty to direct it where the matter is not governed by the rules of procedure. Next time you break the rules of business, I'll take your word away. Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Luka Moon procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you very much. My replica to the minister was a replica by definition. The Minister interpreted my words as if I were to make it clear that the law doesn't work for everything the same, and I told my interpretation of why it doesn't. What you're doing, Comrade Tanko, is not a moderate session, but it's usually an obstacle to the opposition and the deprivation of the right to debate. Although we have narrowly restricted our debate to an amendment, we can listen to some completely fictional things over there that have no connection with the law, from some nationalisations of companies and what pesos the Levica is supposed to hang for the workers. Even though we keep saying that higher wages and capital should be taxed all the time, consider this. But in every replica I've ever had, or in every debate after 30 seconds, you've jumped into a debate. And you're hindering me and preventing me from saying anything meaningful about this marriage. I'm protesting this and I'm asking you to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I think I'm running the meeting right. My colleague Muskrič, who you are talking about, did not, in any way, exceed in my opinion all those debates that have been held before, not as far as my colleague Knezak is concerned, but as far as your debate is concerned. Nothing. I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that again. I don't allow anyone to say I'm talking nonsense because today has been clearly proven. I said I didn't believe it was 30 million, and the minister made it clear that it was estimated at 2 million. So I was telling the truth. But as for my thesis or my question, I wonder why you suggested deleting this, something that's only good for a worker or for a leader. It's good for everyone, but it won't be so bad for the country, because this $2 million good government knows how to get somewhere else. That's all it was, that was my thesis, nothing else. But I've always talked about ratings, about Article 3 and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The Luke Moon replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u247	I'd like to answer my colleague. We have proposed deleting this article or proposing deleting three articles. These articles were still open. Because if you add up these articles, you'll see that there's a budget hole. The government has not prepared any compensatory measures for this law and the common budget hole is estimated at EUR 822 million, which means that this money will be reduced to the construction of public rental apartments, that this money will be reduced to the construction of railways, that the money will be reduced to municipalities and finance schools and roads and infrastructures and so on. Whoever gets it, it's clear here. More or less money goes against the best paid in the country, the management layer. This has not proved to be a development policy anywhere in the world. Compare Slovenia with any Bosnia or Bulgaria, where everyone pays income at 10% rates, which would probably be in the opinion of someone on the right with us, and you will see how the development of one and the other has been in the last 15, 20 years. I am in favour of having resources for collective consumption, that we have a strong country that can support and maintain the infrastructure we need for a good life.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u248	My friend, you're not going to protest because I didn't interrupt. This was not a replica, it was a general debate, not a debate on the amendment tabled and this article. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll talk about the amendment to Article 3. The only candidate is the Left Party. In the explanation I read, there's a speech, there's a case about a rich lawyer, there's a case about a manager, it says, and this manager is actually somehow getting into a relationship with a regular worker on a minimum salary, which, of course, will have nothing to do with this action, because their employees don't provide electric cars for private use. Okay, you wrote that down. I can't comment on that. So much so that the public knows what we're talking about. Before continuing, I must thank my respectable colleague, Sonibo Knezak, who has put us in the real sector or better said in real life. I regret that someone here in Parliament uses a word relationship of management caste. I'm sorry. What do we gain by, in fact, implementing this amendment of the Left to Article 3? I am only going to paragraph 2a, saying: “If the employer provides the employee,” the employee may be anyone, yes, of course also the manager, “if he provides the employee with a personal motor vehicle for private purposes, regardless of the previous paragraph, the value of the rating shall be zero.” You want to delete it. This country has a strategy, among other things, to mention e-mobility, where it says that the country's plan by 2030 is 200,000 electric cars. But it's not a matter of the Income Act. However, I have read a lot about taxes and so-called fiscal measures related to the face of climate and environmental change, colleagues and colleagues. In some circles, it has been discussed earlier whether the untaxed use of a service electric vehicle for private purposes can also be expected. And that's exactly what we're doing with our government income law. I am not going to make an international comparison now, because this is not the subject of this amendment either, but I would like to present first the existing state of affairs. The current Income Act 2 provides that if an employer provides an employed vehicle for private purposes, this application constitutes a classic rating that increases the employee’s tax base of a working relationship of 1.5 % of the vehicle’s purchasing value per month. The calculation of the rating should also, of course, take into account the time of the acquisition of the car if employees transport less than 500 kilometres for private purposes per month, if the employer also provides fuel for the private use of the car. However, if an employer provides an employee with private use of an electric vehicle, the rating under today's Income Act from the classic 1.5% purchase value of the car shall be reduced to 0.3% of the same value, with the number of kilometres transported for private purposes per month not affecting the increase in the value of the car’s rating — some logic. It is true, however, that if an electric vehicle is of higher value, over €60,000, including VAT, should be recalculated according to the classic formula, i.e. 1.5%. For instance. If someone today has an electric vehicle worth one euro less than 60,000, what's the rating? 0.3% of 60 000 is 180 euros per month. That's the number we're talking about. And now we're going to enjoy it, and now we're going to delete it with this novel. Please don't talk about your ugly managers now, because we need them, we need them bloody. We need better and better ones. This is probably also the case — one who has ever been to or is in a company understands — that other workers have or will have electric cars. If this is not the right measure to deal with climate and environmental change now, then I do not know, but something else should be proposed. However, I agree with what you said in the introduction, railways and so on. Yeah, we won't be able to have them tomorrow. Not yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 3 and the amendment tabled? Miha Kordish. Anyone else? [[Yeah.]] Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you. Maybe for closure. If I even accept the proposals of the proposer of this law, how will the taxation of the rich and their luxury lead to any green transition – right if the taxation is any real path, then let us ask ourselves why by this law you are lowering taxes on electric vehicles of managers, but do not, for example, abolish value added tax for Slovenian railways. This is where it shows why it's really going. Not for green, not for sustainable mobility, but for taxing the luxury of rich people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Do you have a replica or a debate? [[It's a debate.]] Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Port of the Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Maybe just a quick answer. Why are we deleting this article? Because there is collective consumption, it is the consumption of a country that will be at risk with this article, and there is individual consumption, consumption of individuals that will be better, but only for a handful. We will not achieve a green breakthrough by allowing, I don't know, 5% of the best paid in the country to drive electric cars for which no ratings are paid. We will achieve a green breakthrough by allowing all to serve as sustainable modes of transport as possible. These forms will go to waste because there will be no money for them. Not only will there be no railways tomorrow when we cut the budget by 800 million, it is also a question of whether they will be in 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 3 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Anyone else want a word with Robert Polnar? [[Yeah.]] Robert Polnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The amendment to Article 4 speaks of the income burden of payment for business performance. The income has this characteristic that it is a direct tax, it is said that it is directly administered to the debtor. It covers increasingly important forms of income of natural persons with exceptions and facilitations. The amendment of the law, which concerns such a large number of taxpayers, citizens and citizens, is therefore also an opportunity to perform in a wide variety of cases. The correctness of the content and the wrongness of the conclusions do not matter; they are virtually negligible. Colleagues and colleagues, I have been employed for 34 years in three different large companies. I was president of the Council of Workers and a member of the various supervisory boards of companies. And it seems to me, or somehow, I am at risk of making a statement that I know a little bit about how commercial performance awards are paid in companies, to whom they are paid and, above all, at what heights. We are talking today about the tax burden on business performance. The negative effect after the Government's calculation, if all the assumptions taken into account by the Government are met, will be 20 million. This, of course, is not much compared to the entire calculated government negative effect of 822 million, but allow me, the presidents, only a very short degression. Remember the tax burden of regression under the previous government. The estimated negative value was 90 million and 124. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the debate on the reduction of tax burdens in relation to Article 4 and the amendment tabled by colleagues and colleagues from the Left, we must take into account in particular the basic fact of our time. This basic fact is a system of companies based on the limitless power of self-sufficiency. This cannot remain unnoticed and must not remain unnoticed in such a debate. A discerning observer of modern economic phenomena cannot escape reality. The power of companies is in management, in bureaucracy, which controls its own tasks, which control its own wages, and in particular, which controls its own prizes, rewards that are sometimes on the verge of theft. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on income, or its amendments, is a complement before the idea is realized that we will further reduce their income obligations to these best-paid citizens and citizens in philanthropic terms. According to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, there were those who would receive the highest awards for business performance, even without this, 4 thousand 540. I am speaking for 2019 – these are realised data. The average income per debtor was EUR 150 000 478 and the average income paid was EUR 45 000 78 and these people would now reduce my income obligations. These people don't care, their incomes are so high, they don't feel anything like that. And these people, I think, at least on the basis of personal experience, they are not even too interested in seeking their compensation for income abroad, because they are already well enough here in Slovenia. And something else, ladies and gentlemen. These people, 4 000 540, together paid 204 million and 696 thousand euros in income. Those in the first class, which amounted to 1 million and 25 thousand, together paid 210 million euros. It's a Slovenian income reality. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you, Comrade Knezak, but I'm not quite finished yet. I would like to say something else about what is also suggested here in the proposal for a law on reducing or decommissioning income obligations, which concerns business performance. This is about talking about so-called substitution effects. What we are dealing with today is hardly the first amendment in this mandate and the addition of the Income Act, you will remember, colleagues and colleagues, that we have dealt with this in this mandate as much as possible. I recall the first proposal that heroically reduced income by EUR 590 million. But that's irrelevant now. What is a fundamental error in this article is the expectation that the lower income will increase the purchasing power of the population and thus increase the consumption by which tax revenues will be compensated by higher income from value added tax. This expectation is delusional and without real basis. The increase in the available income of individuals, if adopted, will of course be realised, may also have a greater impact on private consumption, which will also slightly increase the inflows of value added tax, but the decommissioning of income has the strongest impact in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-limited than other income classes. These classes spend all the extra income on consumption. To the greatest extent, the consumption of this group of taxpayers is linked to the purchase of goods with a lower tax rate, specifically with food and medicines. Therefore, it is not possible that income from value added tax could be increased by the value of the total loss of income generated by income. Mr Vice-President, I fully agree with your way of leading and with your view on the application of the Rules of Procedure. I will speak or speak solely of what relates to the amendment to Article 4. I would, of course, have to say a thief and a half, and I have already done so in the whole of the previous procedure, and I will not say anything about the negative effects and the dependence of these negative effects on, for example, the announcement of Umar, or the spring or autumn, by ending this debate on the amendment to Article 4. This amendment, of course, I support the deletion of the article, but what is more important – I am in favour of not adopting the law. I'm working very hard on this, but tomorrow we'll see what the final outcome is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The word is Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Minister with co-workers, welcome! I'll talk about Article 4. Even if the law contained only this article, I would consider it to be the same as the whole law — that it is one of the laws that try to break down the so-called public, social and solidarity state. The consequences of this article and similar laws similar to those of articles are as follows. Indeed, it is trying to reduce some general tax burden, but it is not said that it is necessary to pay for services nonetheless. And if we don't raise money in the so-called solidarity way that those who have higher wages, higher incomes, more property, pay more, the next option is essentially collecting in a non-solid way – that we all are insured in private insurance companies in a way that we all pay the same for similar services. Why is this so unsolid, unsocial and decommissioning of the public state? Because then some people who are poorer will not pay for insurance. Whether it is health insurance or any other form of insurance, if we give up the solidarity model that has to work within and between generations, we especially threaten those who are weaker. In this particular article, as my predecessors have already announced, it is a relief, of course, to relieve those who have the highest wages for about 20 million. Even if it were just this 20 million, this is unacceptable at a time when the budget or it will have a deficit of 2 billion and a half. I would understand that you would come before us with a measure that might go into some payload and that the opposite would tell you where the countersource is in the burdens, but it's not. It follows that the lower tax burden means higher economic growth and more taxes collected. In fact, the theory and practice have shown that this is not how the system works. Less tax collection means a poorer country, means less socialism and means less solidarity. Often, through this article and similar evidence, we are proving that total revenue will increase in the state budget, but we are forgetting something – we need higher revenues in the state budget in such a way that we do not have higher additional services from the state budget. Why? Let me tell you a case. One of the biggest errors in Slovenia, which we will address for a long time, is that the average salary is too low. Why are we talking so much about income burdens? Not because the curve is wrong, but because we are observing the curve that we put on another average salary, it is Austrian, and we want it to be absolutely the same in Slovenia – but it is not possible for a lower average wage. So we are aware that for the standard of people, citizens, citizens, including pensioners and pensioners, it is important that wages increase. But you know, we will also know this in the state budget, because we are either directly or directly financed from state treasury, I don't know, the number is probably close to 180,000 right now. We now know and only rightly that the salaries of those health workers and workers whose salaries were comparatively low are the nurses. No money is provided for this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u258	My fellow Jew, please speak of the success of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u259	I'm going back. I am saying why the 20 million we are losing here, Mr Vice-President, is simply the money we will be short of in the budget. I, Mr Vice-President, am also very afraid of this activity, as we will provide at least 300 from the state budget next year, we will probably need 500 million integral money to provide health services to the sick people, which is our duty as countries, politicians, parliaments, governments, whatever. This will not be possible from the contribution rate due to the increase in costs, in particular the amount of wages. And if we're taking this article and we're taking it like that, it's not going to work any more. And I'm going to tell you now, we're going to be short 300 to 500 million euros on this item alone. Therefore, honourable Members, I propose that we all support this proposal together. There can be no exemption to pay the income of those who receive the highest wages. As has already been said, the impact will be on 4 000 and some of the richest, even when we talk about this article we reject a law that creates an additional 800 million-million-dollar hole at a time when the state budget is already broken. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u260	My fellow Jew, please talk about the article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u261	I end this way, for the third time, because of this article, the public, social and solidarity state is being attacked and threatened. I call on you to prevent this attack on a public, social and solidarity state. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u263	Thank you very much. This article, which we are deleting, would have done the following in the law. According to the law adopted by the Sharčev government, part of the salary for business performance can be paid without tax by looking at what the average salary is in the country, and depending on the amount of the average salary in the country, you can receive an untaxed regression or a reward for business performance. According to the new report, this will no longer be linked to the average salary in the country, but to your own salary, which means that people who are above average wages are raised or tax burdened, one third of them in Slovenia, two thirds of the wages are below average. Above all, the effects, along with the entire law, have been addressed, as Robert Polnar described before me, in the richest 4 000 540 income payers who paid each for 150 000 Euros in 2019 for business performance prizes. Everyone on average. And we're giving these people more now. This has a lot of negative effects. First of all, this has negative effects on the budget. The Ministry says that this budget will cost 20 million euros, I agree with Robert Polnar, who warned that for this existing bonus, which was introduced in 2019, the calculation of €90 million and the actual effect of € 124, so if we increase it by a third, we can say that it will be closer to 30 million than it will be 20. Another time. This money will not flow into consumption and through consumption and VAT back into the budget. You're unloading the best paid in this country. If you look at what's going on in the last year, you'll see that the savings of households in banks have increased by 2 billion euros, and banks usually save the richest or richest households, and poorer ones don't save that much because they spend more or less of their income on spending the month. What I'm saying is, no, this money won't go into the budget, this money will go into bank savings. And through bank savings, in fear of inflation, it is very likely that it will spill into the real estate market, which is already overheating because everyone is doing so. All who are concerned about what will happen to their savings on banks are mass - bought apartments in the country. That is why we have one of the biggest rises in real estate prices in the past year, even in the coast and in the capital. Which means that this has new negative effects, namely, such measures increase the income of the richest ones, thereby increasing their ability to save, thereby increasing their purchasing power, which many times flows into real estate purchases, and since real estate prices are rising, we have all those who do not have such salaries as they do, the more difficult available properties. Harder to access real estate. Today, the average value of an apartment in Ljubljana is EUR 3 000 500 for no luxury, for an apartment in Fužinah, Šiška, where you want, because a certain layer of people have such purchasing power that they simply buy them chainly, and the apartments become machines that pay off their own credit. You give up your apartment, the loan is paid off on its own, and you have a new leverage and a new mortgage that you can continue to rent your assets with. That's what you do. This is one of the diseases of today's world, not only in Slovenia. In Slovenia, we have retained this anger until now, and we have remained close to what this country has been set up. This country was created if you read our constitution, around some sort of social democratic consensus. We are all middle class, we want to reach our constitution, we are all equal in rights and duties, and we all have the same opportunities to develop and develop our potential through the infrastructure that society offers us. Such measures and such laws create a society where the top 1% will slip away from others and this will happen to two. The first is that inequality will get worse, just like it did in America. The second is that this will increase the sense of relative poverty. This is the last time I've explained this to the minister. Being poor doesn't necessarily mean you can't buy bread. People also feel poor in a relative sense. If you have a good salary, for example, €2-3 000 net, but you are surrounded by only people who have 20 or 30,000 euros net, you will feel poor because you will not be able to drive like them on a yacht vacation and you will not be able to have 10 apartments owned by them, and you will not be able to drive a car for 150 000 euros. This will have harmful social consequences. That is why we are also against this law — because it increases social inequality. And even now, as colleague Polnar has shown, the top or 4 thousand 540 people who pay the most income in Slovenia, we are talking about the best paid and those who pay the highest prizes for business success, in 2019 paid 204 million income, which is as much as paid by the entire lower first class, in which there are millions of people. It's 4,000 500 people, a million people, we already have this scale. And now you're making a law that will reward these 4 thousand 500s with a great deal of money and will strengthen them not only economically but also socially. This, of course, destroys the balance of power in the country because you put us all in an unequal position. That is why we would like to see that tax changes take place in the opposite direction – this 1% that has escaped from the consensus around which our country was placed will have to be taxed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Vojko Starović and Jurij Lej are still registered. Vojko Starović, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I am also pleased with your knowledge that if an article is proposed to be abolished, you cannot talk editorially about the dot and the comma and what to change. It turns out that you've actually accepted the matter, that it's no different than to say the context, why we're some people who want this article to be abolished. So far, such tax exemptions have not gone anywhere around the world into investment, into new things, but mainly into savings or luxury matters — additional housing, yacht, large car and so on. There are such experiences around the world, so I ask the Minister - the others have already said a lot about it, I ask the Minister - whether he actually believes that these tax breaks will lead to greater transport, higher production, higher added value, which will translate into sufficient inflows to the state budget, so that the state will be able to cover its obligations as a social state, as a welfare state. Somehow I don't get the math. And the other thing. They also note that the current GDP growth is due to debt growing strong over the average in Slovenia, at twice as fast as in Europe, and then into GDP growth. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. I have no problems, colleague Starović, if the debate is on the content of the amendment and the article. I don't have a problem with that. So that the matter is now running as is the provision of the Rules of Procedure. Yuri Leprechaun, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that I, too, respect the rules of procedure, it is now difficult to get involved in this debate. Since I've been looking for which article I would be able to fit in with my own debate, I'm just going to fit in here because I think it's very important. For this Article, Article 4, which is deleted, of course, I am also in favour of deleting. Regardless of the fact that it is purely narrow, general, but this is one part that shows that we are reducing revenue into the state budget with such things – as has been said before, these are people who in fact do not mean much to them the money that is now being shown. But if that's all that's meant to reduce it, but not to others, and the goal is that we're going to have at least 1 billion in total then we're going to have almost 1 billion in total, we're going to say something over 930 million, a large fraction of that 1 billion will also go away, which is maybe 10%, I don't know, I'm thinking, because I haven't counted it, but it's definitely the kind of part that if you put it in total, it means a lot of deficits. [[…]] As an argument to the contrary, it is argued that, because we are going to reduce revenue in this budget, the remainder of the income they will receive because they will not pay such income will be spent in Slovenia. These big users will not spend it on Slovenia, you need to know that, it's for sure. I did some math, too. If all the money that an individual in Slovenia will receive from me, including these gentlemen in Article 4, if all of the VAT generated by the sum of the benefits would be spent in Slovenia, this would total around €180 million, due to VAT. So, inappropriately less would have been brought in than it would have been with this story. In this article, to limit myself to it, it is particularly important that we really do not want to help people who do not need help in such a clear and transparent manner. Of all the things we would need to fill the budget, this is really the smallest thing or the last thing we should say in Slovenia to make the story easier for them. I don't think you gentlemen and the general Slovenia need this. In general, I will say that, given that we are reducing revenue in the budget, we will also have to increase resources. If we don't do this or at least tell which way it's going, then in the future it's very bad for us, because we can't, as I said before, charge 1 billion by saying that we're going to spend more, that's a fact, or that we're going to work more. Even if we employ everything we have available, we should employ about 120,000 people, that is a fact, but we know that in Slovenia we have 66,000 unemployed, of which 40,000 are long-term unemployed. So there's no way this math can come out. However, I agree that by increasing production, something can be gotten in, as much as we all just guess. The analysis that some have been making suggests that at least 1.5% of the already planned increased GDP or economic growth should be added to gross in order to cover these requirements, which we will make for employees with these benefits. As far as this article is concerned, I can no longer discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just to clarify. This is not about any individuals who would like to forgive us or reduce some taxes. It's a general provision. There's always talk about managers, owners, individuals, and I don't know who else. This provision is now, by the fact that so far a certain limit has been the average wage, now it is no longer so, because, of course, everyone with his or her abilities achieves his or her salary. And it's right to talk here about the reward of being rewarded at the height of his salary. That's all it is. By the way, similar solutions are known to Austria, for example, where wages are not taxed or taxed at much lower rates. I am counting on the fact that, of course, those who have jobs today that are deficient in the market will also see some motivation to work in Slovenia and to work in these companies. They have similar solutions elsewhere, but this is not meant to be, as is always said here, I don't know, but I don't know who the rich people are and so on. Tax legislation does not interfere with this; the rates are known in advance; they are progressive; they are easy for everyone to do the same. Here it's easier to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss this with Luke Mesca? Not yet. Port Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you. In fact, the fact that reliefs are given to all equally works like this. In Hofer this year, for example, it was announced that 2,000 employees would be paid the holiday house of 240 euros. It's like seven times below the average salary, where the current limit is, and these workers won't have any of it. When we talk about the manager in this same company, which has 10 000 euros in gross wages and will pay 3,000 euros in Christmas, he will get 500 euros in credit. Is this credit rating now the same for both the employee and her boss? I'd say there's no way. The system has so far been set up to be the same for all and to stimulate businesses to pay their employees to the average wage. Now that it binds the law to its own wages, it stimulates those with the highest wages to pay as much as possible through this channel and thus avoid paying their income. This is the effect of this law. The equality here is about the same as in that famous winged animal farm of Orwell: all animals are equal, but one is more equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The port of the moon. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you. This article, however, speaks of senior reliefs, where the government speaks again about higher incomes, but this is really what this is about. The current amount of the untaxed pension amounts to a thousand 173 euros, and the law raises this amount to a thousand 500 euros. This means that the vast majority of pensioners who receive pensions below EUR 1 000 173, of which 460 000, or 89%, will have none. Those who have pensions above €173 will have, and these are good 10%. This is another of the provisions of this law, which is in favour and at the hands of those who already have relatively more than others, so we propose that this article be deleted as well. While this article will not have as much devastating consequences as the previous one, which actually rewards people who paid themselves on average for €150,000 on an average last year, the difference between pensioners is not so great, but nevertheless. People who have already been materially at a better end of their lives and who are now in retirement, are given extra funds, of course others can be wiped out here under their noses. We are in Levic against such tax changes as I said before. We would like to see changes more taxed by those who have accumulated the most assets in the last 30 years, those who pay the prizes we have heard before, 150 000 euros and so on per year. With laws like this before us, you don't fix these things, but you make them worse. The problem is that these are really outdated methods that have been tested all over the world. At present, more or less not only politics, but also much of the economic profession around the world is working on how to reduce inequality in the world. Inequality has caused a lot of one dissatisfaction, social imbalances, and 1% of the richest countries also have inadequate political power and distort laws and regulations and societies according to their wishes. The challenge we have in the coming decades is how to make societies more equal and more equal. I will do my best, not only will this article really be drawn, but that the law will fall tomorrow, because it is one of the most harmful laws that this government has adopted and that we have before the elections before us on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment to Article 15 states that Article 15 should be deleted. What is Article 15 talking about? It is very short: "After the age of 70 and the resident who, in accordance with the rules on protection against natural and other disasters, voluntarily and unprofessionally carries out operational tasks of protection, rescue and assistance for at least 10 years, and is recognised by the administrative authority responsible for protection, resolution and assistance in the register as a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 1000 500 per year." With the deletion of Article 15, as proposed by the Left, the senior allowance is hereby abolished. There are a lot of pensioners here, if I may. On the other hand, income relief is abolished for voluntary firefighters and others working in the protection and rescue and rescue tasks for a continuous period of 10 years. It's not like that. A thousand and 500 euros is this income relief, and there seems to be a problem for the amendment's proponents. I say, for God's sake. True, it is true that this whole law is somehow, yes, even because of coronaryism written in the direction that it loosens the tax mark, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only ones. In the OECD, 29 of the 37 countries observed at the time of the coronary crisis have now loosened the tax burden. For God's sake, it's our people. Now everyone is talking about budget cuts – this will remain with our people, and the country will be obliged to have its functioning, its functioning cost-effective, if I may say so. Don't be afraid. I'm finishing up the numbers on yesterday. We're doing fine. Slovenia is going well! On yesterday, we exceeded our income by 108 million at the annual level. We're over 108 million! Let's say the corporate income tax, on yesterday we went over over 140 million if we compare the annual level, the plan. And other recent incomes and so on. Last day, we overrun them with tides, 200 million more than planned. So, thank God, we're doing well and let's give something now to this precious heating energy that our people will have some of it. It's not a big deal. Are we so socially sensitive that we allow people to feel a little more in their wallets from 1 January 2022? I will certainly vote against all these three amendments, and I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! That is exactly what I wanted to point out, my predecessor, Mr Horvat, has already preceded me or has also read precisely this 15th article, for which he wishes to delete himself. Therefore, they would not have deleted only the senior relief, as they had warned, if they had deleted Article 15, they would have also deleted the relief provided for firefighters, or anyone who, for more than 10 years, continuously voluntarily and unprofessionally perform operational protection tasks. In the previous reading, this was a coalition amendment, which was also adopted. So I really don't want this article to be drawn. I will certainly vote against it myself. All together, on 26 November, we also received a call from the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, i.e. a request to support the proposed amendments to the Income Act. Only a sentence or two is even wider for all those who may still have a dilemma as to what to do with this law. I suggest that everyone read one article published in the Finances on 13 December, which is now 13. 12th, with the title of Members, mind in hand, relieve the wages! It is in this article that they are essentially responding to all the dilemmas expressed by opponents of the law during these treatments of the law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u278	Colleagues, could I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u279	So how tax relief speeds up consumption. They also point out, among other things, that the OECD has been warning Slovenia for many years that we have an excessive tax burden. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce also estimates that the proposed changes to this law will increase GDP growth by 0.5 to 0.75 percentage points each year. They also add, which I also agree with itself, that raising general relief also has a significant impact on the perception of whether it is worth working or rather receiving social assistance. Then everything else, too, is a lot of questions, all that has been put forward in the debates so far. And what is also important, which I am also to myself and to which we have pointed out in our Group of Members, this gradual rise in general relief is indeed gradual. And they also write here that if it were true [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u280	My colleague, please, about the amendment. You're talking too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u281	All right, thanks. So I just suggest that this article be read because all the answers to all the dilemmas are also exposed. However, I will certainly not support the deletion of Article 15 because I still have this overall relief to firefighters and all rescuers because they actually deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Luke the moon and Yuri the Leprechaun. Luke Moon first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u283	Thank you. I think it's the other way around. Everything you have just said, in a debate that has lasted more than an hour and a half, we have repeatedly rejected it as wrong. It's not going to go into higher spending, it's going to go into more savings, it's not going to go into ordinary citizens' pockets, it's going to go into the pockets of the best-paid. This will not stimulate productivity but, on the contrary, deny productivity, as it will reduce money for public investment and so on. What this article in Finance says, I know, but I also know the practice around the world, and we've been looking everywhere at the same patterns for the last 30 years. Where the volume of the country and the collective consumption decreased, public investment has taken place. And in this way we will not reach apartments, railways, higher resources for science and research and so on. But they will, yes, pay especially those who are better paid, higher [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u284	Comrade Luke, please go to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u285	And if I go to the amendment now, what are the effects of this amendment? I'll talk about the senior relief. In the case of a gross pension of thousands of euros, the net pension will not rise even to the euro. In the case of a gross pension of a thousand 200, the net will rise by 3 euros, the gross pension of a thousand 600 will rise by EUR 53 net, and the gross pension will rise by EUR 2 000 net by EUR 103 and the gross pension will rise by EUR 3 000 net by EUR 151. Thus, for those who have up to EUR 1000 gross pensions, the effect will be zero, for those who have a gross pension of EUR 3 000 and the effect of 151. And that's the whole law. You can read the whole marriage, and you'll see this pattern everywhere. If anyone believes the tales of the trickle-down effect, as it is called in English, you give it to the rich and then this wealth magically flows down the ladder – and you will see in the world that nowhere else has come but the riches of the richest and the poverty of the poorest. But the reason is simple. Taking 822 million from the state budget means that 822 million should be taken from public spending. And show me where you're going to take them, what investments you're going to cut, what social rights, how much you're going to reduce your pensions to get there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u286	My fellow moon, please speak of your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u287	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u288	No, you say different things.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u289	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u290	Thank you. Yuri Leprechaun, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We're back to Article 15. In this article, I could personally say, in principle, that I am in favour of this article, that I will vote against it, especially for the reason that there are firefighters with them, and they also have reliefs. Perhaps the motioner could have separated this and the dilemma would have been pure, we could have voted against it once and for once or not. Also, given that I have long been a supporter of pensions and I am also a supporter of pensions, senior relief means – we know that pensions are already a system, it is a decade-long system, you pay according to your contributions and also get a pension based on paid contributions. The pension system is already basically a solidarity system, so I mean, as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problems or reservations about getting the senior relief back, as it once was. This is primarily to show a desire with these reliefs. With these reliefs, these gentlemen, who have a pension of over a thousand EUR 173, will not do much to help themselves, but it is the fact that those of us who are working now or who are working now also know in the future that the pension system is based on the contributions paid. We must be aware that our society is a solidarity society, and it is a very solidarity society, and we must also show that work is worth it. Basically, we must at least demonstrate in this sense the goodwill to know that the one who paid more is getting a little more. But I also know that we used to talk about the relationship between the contributions paid or the salary paid to you in the work relationship or then the pension was 1:4 when you worked at 1:8. Now, I don't know how much, I didn't count, but I'm sure now the ratio of how much we get paid, and when we retire, it's less. In this position, I would agree with the existing amendment and not delete it. But as for firefighters, that's how we know. It's a thing you can't really argue with. In any case, however, the country's income will be flawed. Either way, it's gonna be a flaw. And I also hope that if this law is passed – I personally will not support it in full, I must say this – that, with the economic growth that we all anticipate, we will fill this small on the income side, and with greater consumption, we will fill this small on the income side, and that the statistics of individual people who may look at it more broadly say that this will not be the case. If so, I will gladly swallow my word and say, look, I have made a mistake and I am sorry that I voted against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Say hello again to all who persist in this hall! This article, for which deletion is proposed, also falls within the framework of reducing the revenue of the budget. The budget revenue for 2021 is projected at a level – we are now at the end of the year, I think we will not miss much, the minister will say – 10 billion 700 and expenditure 3 billion 469. That's a little less than a 3-billion-dollar difference. I don't think we can go any further this way to make these scissors bigger. We can't keep doing this because people are gonna want the money back! Where are we going? In a few years we have jumped to the point that we are jointly in debt in Slovenia for 40 billion, now we are already strong over 50 billion, so more than we can create added value per year. Together in charge, I am not talking about the state budget and so on, but together in charge of so much. We can't continue this way. We can't, we can't, it won't work. That's why we're against this law completely. Although this provision does not provide for forgiveness because it is so few in these cases, it is not for forgiveness, but for nothing for those 89% of pensioners, but only for those above. So I would say that I have nothing in particular against this article, because it does not mean anything in these figures, as I mentioned them. But the numbers scare me, actually scare me. We can't go further than this hole because we're running out of money to finance development projects, including green projects, those, thirds. We're gonna run out of money if we move on like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u294	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u295	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Of course I'm against deleting this article. In the debate – because I didn't mean to sign up, but I'm listening in here and I see some parliamentary groups or colleagues talking and deceiving. First time. When €50 had to be raised, they talked about the gross amount that would rise, they did not talk about the net, and today we are hearing about how much the pension would rise. Let's make one decision, and we're always talking the same thing, whether we're talking grossly all the time, how much it's going to rise, or how much net. I don't care either when they say that we have such large salaries, but the net nobody can calculate how much we have, and it's significantly smaller than what the journalists are publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u297	Thank you very much. As I have already said, in New Slovenia we will vote against the deletion of Article 15. This debate, which I think is very correct, has shown two models, two concepts. One less country, the tax burden, the other more countries and the tax burden, is even higher. According to one logic, as I have now heard, it would be necessary to tighten the tax burden even further so that we will then have more productivity and so on. But before that, and I repeat, on yesterday we collected 108 million more income than the annual plan, yesterday was 13. 12. The dynamic model of tax default assessment due to an increase in general relief is estimated at 102 million for the following year. So we've already covered this part in some way. There is something, however, that colleagues and colleagues, what Comrade Yuri has said well: those who work must have more from their work. Because some disagree with the policy of the same stomachs in Slovenia and go out. Such were 15 thousand 100 in 2019, of which 2 thousand 600 were college or higher education, and 5,000 800 were between 20 and 40 years of age. The best staff is leaving under the tax regime we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u299	Thank you very much. First of all. When we talk about the tax haven, I would like to explain to my colleague Horvath, and especially to the people who are watching and listening to us, that no one in this Chamber, especially me or our parliamentary group, is talking about putting extra burden on the average employee in this country or anything like that, even a double or three times the average wage. We would, however, be more burdened with capital and property revenues, which are practically non-taxable for us. We are on the tail of Europe after we have taxed property. And there'd be more tax. Second. When we talk about why we need to gather more in the state treasury, we need to ask ourselves where we all need to go. We are always listing: the country has been promising housing for 10 years, but it does not build it because there is no money; the country has been promising science since I can remember, and nothing is being fixed because there is no money. It is now stipulated in the last law that resources for development and research, where we are also on Europe's tail, will – and therefore people are leaving us because young people do not get a job with us – have increased at the rate of 0.08% of GDP per year. That's what we can do right now because we're collecting so much. And so on, I don't mention it. What Vojko Starović warned – this hole you are currently drilling will not be known next year, because next year the country will still be in debt and will still be in debt and will have a large deficit because fiscal rules will not be activated. Once the fiscal rule is activated, it'll be another thing. Then we'll have to talk about where this money you're now saying you're giving it to the people who take it. You know, if I turn your argument against you, this country is human.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 15. 12th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid compensation for invalidity under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary of Mags. I'm flowering Urschich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u301	Dear Mr President, Your Honor and Your Honor! We regulate the law, correct the injustice that has been done to some disabled persons who have not been able to obtain the right to a disability. The Social Protection Act, adopted in the early 1984 ’ s, regulated the right of disability for those with disabilities as a child or by the age of 18, moderate, severe or most serious mental impairment or the most difficult movemental disability. In most cases, this disability was recognised immediately after the age of 18, in a slightly smaller number, and in very rare cases only after completion of schooling. Here was a different interpretation of individual centres for social work and, in some cases, it was not possible for persons with disabilities to receive disability until after completion of schooling, and for most of them immediately after the age of 18. By this law, we correct this injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. To present the report, I give the floor to Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 37th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The Committee was co-chaired by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the Council of State. The representative of the Government briefly presented a proposal for a law establishing a legal basis for the payment of unpaid disability compensation to those beneficiaries who did not have this right during the period of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years and who obtained it after the completion of their regular schooling. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. Among other things, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that further clarifications by the Government on their comments were appropriate. With regard to the proposals tabled for amendments to the Committee by the Coalition to Article 3, she stressed that it would need to be corrected, which could be regulated by the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, whose members unanimously decided, without discussion, that the Commission should support the proposal for a law. In a short discussion, the representative of the Levica Group recalled that this was a legal solution written by the Ministry on the initiative of their party. The Commission adopted a decision on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities at the meeting referred to in the request of the Left, calling on the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to eliminate existing injustices and to draft a law that would eliminate inequalities. The representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party stressed that the Ombudsman and members of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities have been alerted to the unjustified treatment of disabled persons with the status of students and students. Misinformation by social work centres forced disabled students to choose between two rights, the right to education or the right to disability, which is unacceptable. She stressed that, in the case of vulnerable groups, we should be even more careful and careful, both on the part of the institutions and the executive branch, so that such inadmissible injustices would no longer occur. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 3 and 5 of the bill. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. A further proposal for a law incorporating the amendments has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! When rights are denied to someone due to the unanimity of interpretation of laws or other regulations and, consequently, to the unanimity of the practice of the competent authorities that decide on a right, we are talking about injustice. It is not the first time that a particular group of persons has been likened to such an unacceptable situation, and it is not the first time that we have corrected the mistakes in this House by adopting laws that have restored the right of injured persons. It is only in this mandate that we accept, if I am not mistaken, a third law which will allow for the payment of disadvantaged rights to be paid back. In the first two, it was the right to an allowance for the care of the child and an allowance for assistance and service, primarily for blind and visually impaired children. Unfortunately, this time too, we are talking about disabled children. This time, many have been deprived of the disability allowance due to their involvement in education between the ages of 18 and 26. The practice of centres for social work concerning the recognition of the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically disabled persons, which was valid from 1984 to 2018, was very different. Some centres have recognised the right; others have recognised the right from age to age; third, depending on the completion of the schooling; or only those who have studied under the special programme have recognised the right; and children who have been included in the regular programme have been excluded. As the Ombudsman said, such conduct is not only wrong but also unacceptable. The unequal treatment of children with the same or similar factual situation was unacceptable, and we agree with that in the Desus Group. Therefore, the proposal for a law that is before us today and whose purpose is to remedy the injustice of some 30 people in a way that recognises their status as being back and that actually due compensation is also paid to them will be supported. However, I cannot help but express our regret and criticism that such stories about such or other errors of the executive branch are unacceptable, about the controversial or even different interpretation of the legislation of those implementing it. This shouldn't be happening. It is true, however, that legislation itself should be written in a simpler way, more understandable and more clearly explained. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! On the one hand, the Ombudsman's comments on the proposal for a law that we are adopting today were made by the Ministry of Human Rights, who took note of the fact that in the past the practice of centres for social work regarding the recognition of disability status was different. Most centres recognised the status of disabled persons from age to age and the minority, depending on the completion of schooling. This resulted in a different recognition of the rights set out in this Title. Thus, in the practice of working social work centres, similar cases have not occurred for the first time, in this mandate the National Assembly has already dealt with the adoption of the Law on the payment of the unpaid child care allowance and the Law on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service. On the other hand, we are also adopting today's law on the basis of the Commission's action on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, which at one of its meetings adopted a decision to draw up a legal basis that would eliminate this discrimination. The aim of the law that we have before us today is to ensure payment of unpaid compensation for disability to those beneficiaries who, during their regular schooling between the age of 18 and 26 years after the Social Protection Act, did not have a recognised right to do so and obtained it after completion of schooling. This corrects injustices or evens the conditions for obtaining disability benefits. Misinformation by social work centres forced disabled students to choose between two rights, the right to education or the right to disability. There are no reasons for not supporting the bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We expect, however, that these misinterpretations by the Centre for Social Work will no longer occur, as this is essential to the legal and social security of the vulnerable members of our society, and this is not right. In such cases, the single practice should also be provided by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as one of the tasks of the Ministry is to provide an interpretation of the specific legal provisions which the social work centres follow to a possible contrary decision of the court. If that were to happen, we should not have to adopt the law in question today. Nevertheless, we will, of course, support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u308	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u309	Good evening! Persons with disabilities are just one of the vulnerable groups that is often forgotten, but they are often wronged. They need much more than minimum financial security for their independent lives, as they have higher costs because of the limitations caused by disability. So far, the practice of social work centres is very different. At the same time, we are concerned that the recognition of the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act is also uneven. This seems unacceptable to us and without any real framework. We took the social workers under observation and observed that during the years they carried out harmful practices — individuals who met the conditions for payment of unpaid disability compensation — were not recognised after 18 years of age when they were in school. We welcome the establishment of a legal framework with the proposed law for the payment of unpaid disability compensation to those beneficiaries who did not have this right at the time of regular schooling between 18 and 26. In Slovenian history, people with disabilities were often disadvantaged and pushed to the brink of society. It is imperative that these injustices be eliminated now, in this government, despite the fact that they are a handful of beneficiaries. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a legal and social state and that the principle of the social state is therefore taken into account among others. We have read in the material that the draft law is specific to our country, so it is not possible to provide an indication of the regulation in other legal systems. Does this mean that in other European countries they do not face this problem or have it resolved differently? Although the beneficiaries do not belong to interest because Slovenia will pay them the maximum amount of disability compensation during the period of validity of the law, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that they could receive a slightly higher amount of disability compensation. The latter could be at the same level as the amount of cash social assistance, which is 402.18 euros for the first adult or single person or adult. This is not a serious financial difference, it is less than €20, as the proposaler proposes an amount of €382.22.32 without any late interest. We need to know that there are only about 30 beneficiaries. These include those who were denied the right to a disability allowance at the time of schooling, and also those who obtained the right only later, following the completion of their regular schooling. In the procedure for the recognition of the right, it shall, at the request of the beneficiaries, decide on the social work centres which are locally competent, irrespective of the beneficiary's permanent residence. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems important to us that the beneficiaries are properly informed so that no one will eventually hang. We believe that a period of six months is long enough for the beneficiary to submit his or her role in a timely manner without fear. At the same time, they must take into account that, unfortunately, it will not be possible to exercise the right to pay the outstanding disability allowance after this period. It is also considered that payment under this Act is not included in the income taken into account in the exercise of public funds rights. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia will provide around €1.1 million. People with disabilities are like us, so we need to make sure that they do not feel financially disadvantaged. For the multitude of unfortunate circumstances has already inflicted upon them bodily, mental wounds in their lives. The law leads a step towards the welfare of Slovenian disabled people and we are certainly on their side in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u310	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you, Vice President. How nice to meet you, Ministry Representative! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation, thereby correcting the injustice that has occurred to disabled people with student or student status. As in the case of the blind and the visually impaired, social work centres have misinterpreted or misinterpreted wrong information, thus depriving the disabled of the right to a disability that they are legally entitled to. The vast majority of social work centres recognised the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act of the mentally and physically affected persons from the age of full age, while the lower number recognized the status of disabled persons by law as dependent on the completion of the education. In doing so, some of the social work centres did not recognise the disability status of investors in the short term after 18 years of schooling. Some social work centres, however, recognized the status of disabled persons by law only to those who had been trained in a special education and education programme, not to those who had been involved in a regular schooling programme and who had been trained for their own lives and work. In doing so, they referred to the provisions of the law that the status of a disabled person should be recognised to persons who cannot be trained for their own lives and work, but to persons who are regularly trained for their own lives. As unacceptable and without legal basis, the Ombudsman considers the practice of social work centres, which by definition did not recognise the status of disabled persons after 18 years of schooling. It is unacceptable that disabled persons with student or student status have not received disability benefits for years just because they were involved in the education process or had student or student status. Today, we are also correcting this injustice by means of the proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation, which means that the bill will establish the legal basis for the payment of the unpaid disability compensation to those beneficiaries who, during the period of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years following the law, did not have this right recognised and who obtained it after the completion of their regular schooling. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u312	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u313	Thank you, Chairman. In February this year, at the request of the members of the democratic opposition groups at the urgent session of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we addressed the problem of persons with disabilities who had not received disability compensation for many years, even though they had been legally entitled to this right. Refunds were not received for inclusion in the educational process, although the legislation did not provide for this. Many social work centres have misinterpreted legislation for years and years that an individual is not entitled to a disability allowance if the full-year beneficiary is a student or a student. However, this compensation should belong to persons with disabilities whether or not they are involved in education. At a meeting of the Commission on Petitions, a decision was taken by the members of the Group of Members of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD and the SAB, which called on the Ministry of Labour to prepare a legal basis for obtaining the right to compensation for invalidity for those persons who had not obtained the right to such compensation under the previous legislation, and at the age of full age or until the age of 26, in the case of regular schooling, the conditions for obtaining such compensation were met. Disability is one of the most vulnerable groups and, in our view, the injustice that has occurred to them is inexcusable. Therefore, we welcome the law that is before us today and with which we will correct the wrongs that have been done. However, we expect the Ministry and the competent centres for social work to ensure that, after the adoption of the law, all beneficiaries are aware that payment of the allowance belongs to them. It must not happen that any of the beneficiaries of the right would not be informed and would therefore miss the deadline for submitting the application for payment. Such errors have already taken place in the past, and this warning is even more valid. In LMŠ, we have advocated the elimination of injustices and the protection of more natural groups since the beginning of our activities in politics. At the time of our government's operation, we have proved that we can and know. In the short term, we have taken a number of measures to help many groups of people. Among other things, at the time of our government, we have drawn up a law to eliminate the injustices that have been committed to parents of blind and visually impaired children in the past in connection with the receipt of a child-care allowance. That is why we also support today the proposal for a law to remedy past injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u315	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Social Democrats will be asked to propose a law that will allow the payment of unpaid disability compensation to those persons with disabilities who were denied the right to a disability allowance at the time of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years of age and who have received it after the completion of their regular schooling. The Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Injured Persons, which was in force from 1984 until the end of 2018, allowed, among other forms of protection of disabled persons, the right to compensation for disability acquired by disabled persons at the age of 18. In the exercise of this right, different practices have been established between social work centres. The vast majority of social work centres have recognized the status of disabled persons, including the right to compensation for disability, from the age of full age forward, and the lower number of centres have recognised the status of disabled persons in view of the completion of their education. In doing so, some of the centres did not categorically recognise the status of disabled persons after 18 years of schooling. Some other centres, however, recognized the status of the disabled only to those who had been trained in a specific curriculum of education and education, not to those who had been involved in the regular curriculum and who had been trained for their own lives and work. The right to compensation for disability should, after their interpretation, belong only to persons with disabilities who cannot be trained for their own work and their own lives. The Ombudsman also pointed out the unacceptable practice of social work centres in deciding on the recognition of disability status. In his view, the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act should be recognised to all persons who had the status of a student or a student after the age of 18 and who have attended a specific programme of education and education. However, he allowed the possibility that the status of a disabled person should not be recognised to those persons who were able to participate in regular education and who have been trained for self-employment and life. We support the proposed law because it will eliminate the unfair practice of social work centres, which have decided differently on the status of the disabled and thus on the right to compensation for disability. This socially vulnerable group of people needs our special care and protection for their own lives, especially in providing material and income security. The needs of persons with disabilities differ from that of the average person, and these include higher material costs, a number of technical adjustments or tools that enable people with disabilities to become autonomous and integrate into society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u316	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u317	Good evening! Thank you for your word. We have before us a law written by the Ministry on the initiative of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. In Levi, we drew attention to the unfair treatment of persons with disabilities who had been denied the right of disability compensation by CSDs, although they were actually entitled to this right. Thus, at the February meeting of the Human Rights Commission, we coordinated the decision calling for a legal basis for obtaining the right to compensation for those persons who did not receive the right to such compensation, and at the age of full age or at the age of 26, if they were regularly trained, they met the conditions for obtaining disability compensation. Let me explain to you what a complex mystery looks like. Some people with disabilities in Slovenia have not received disability benefits for years, although they have been legally entitled to this right. It is a case of full-year disabled persons who have been denied their right by misreading legislation or simply because of the fact that they were involved in education. Just because they had student or student status, they were not compensated for disability, although the legislation never provided for such an exclusion clause. Some parents or legal representatives of persons with disabilities have received negative decisions, which some later complained about, and many have not exercised the right to compensation at all, since the employees of social work centres have initially told them that they are not entitled to this right because of their involvement in the educational process. None of these provisions, of course, holds or is not a real marriage mark, but they are beneficiaries, that is, disabled persons, who have lost something that belongs to them. Now what? Thus, all those who have been provided with information by employees of social work centres are injured so that they are not entitled to compensation for their status in the educational system. All those who have not submitted applications for the exercise of justice on the basis of this information have been harmed by the misfunction of the State authority. The reason why people did not file applications is not because they did not need rights or because they would have been denied, but because they had been granted rights by authorised officials, and therefore it was not reasonable to invest. Injustice has arisen in the light of the fact that it is the real needs of people and that the exercise of these rights has been objectively aimed at inadvertently inciting that applications should not be made, and it is imperative to correct them. Any disabled person over the age of 18 would have given up the role if he knew that his right belonged to him. Therefore, there is no reason for us not to recognize this right to all persons with disabilities who have not received it. The Ombudsman is also convinced that everyone who has been entitled to this right belongs to this right. He says: “They certainly belong to and must receive their rights back.” So, everybody. So there is a law before us that saves you on the initiative of the Left. It lays down the legal basis for the payment of the unpaid disability compensation to all beneficiaries who did not have this right during the period of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years of age and who obtained it after the completion of their regular schooling. At the committee hearing of the law we went to the Left Group with a proposal one step further. We have proposed that the Ministry be obliged to notify, within six months, potential beneficiaries under this law to the CSDs themselves of the rights they belong to under this law and to inform them of the procedure for the exercise of the right to which they therefore belong. We have proposed that the deadline for lodging applications for payment of unpaid refunds should be extended from six to 12 months and that the exemption should be deleted, which provides that payments under this Act are regarded as income in the exercise of the right to exceptional social assistance. At the time of the current government, the weakest among us are too often forgotten. Despite the pharaoh's winged fact that the government is working and not forgetting anyone, practice is different. Therefore, in Levica, we are also persistently alerting the missing groups, and the disabled are too often among them. As it is said, because the Government has made changes to the legislative process, which we have first mentioned in Levica and which will return the lost allowance to the disabled, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u318	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u319	Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Affected Persons, which was in force from 1984 to 2018, regulated the situation of adults with mental and physical disabilities who could not be trained for their own life and work and who were found to have been affected by childhood or youth until the age of 18, or at the time of regular schooling, but for a maximum of 26 years. The law also provided for disability benefits between rights. The right to compensation for disability may be obtained by a person who is 18 years of age or from the date of the finding of disability if found later. The practice of centres for social work regarding the recognition of the status of disabled persons under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons was different. A large majority of the centres recognised the status of disabled persons from the age of 18, while a small number recognized the status of disabled persons only after completion of the schooling. Various practices have resulted in unequal treatment of children with the same or similar factual status. In order to ensure equal rights, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation which allows persons with disabilities the right to payment of unpaid disability compensation. The solution is that the beneficiaries have been paid by persons who have applied for disability benefits at a time when they were regularly trained at the age of 18 and 26 but who have been given a negative decision on the grounds that such persons have not yet been able to fulfil the conditions for recognition of disability status and are consequently entitled to disability benefits, as they cannot be found to have been able to apply for their own life and work through regular education, and who have not yet submitted applications for disability compensation at the time of regular schooling at the age of 18 to 26. This proposal thus allows equal treatment for persons with disabilities who have been educated and have not been granted the right to compensation for disability due to the uneven practice of social work centres. Disabled persons are an important part of our society and belong to it. They must be able to shape their own everyday life. Integration must be present throughout society. Disability shall not constitute a risk of poverty for disabled persons and their closest or for social exclusion. It is very important for people with disabilities to be able to cover at least partially their costs by work, so we advocate their involvement in work and society and independent life. We need more openness in hiring people with disabilities. The bill that we are considering today eliminates the injustices that have occurred in the unequal treatment of the various centres for social work, which is why we will unanimously support it in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u320	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u321	Thank you for your word, again. Your Honor! We have been reminded of various practices of social work centres in the exercise of social rights several times in the past by the Ombudsman. In today's case, we are talking about students and students with disabilities who have been involved in the educational process with disability status and disability compensation. The practice of centres for social work in relation to the recognition of disability status under the former Social Protection Act was different for mentally and physically affected persons. The majority of social work centres recognised the status of disabled persons under the Act from age to age, and several social work centres benefited from different practices and interpretations of legal provisions. The disability status was thus assessed on the basis of the fact that the person had student or student status or whether the person had completed the schooling. They often automatically rejected the status of disabled persons after 18 years of schooling. It appears that the interpretation of the relevant legal provisions did not know the limits. Even so, some social work centres recognized the status of the disabled only to those who had been trained in a special education and education programme, not to those who had been involved in a regular schooling programme and who had been trained for their own lives and work. At that time, for these CSDs, the current reference to the provision of the law which stipulated that the status of a disabled person should be recognised to persons who, I quote, "cannot be qualified for their own life and work". As a result, it was a literal conclusion that a person who is regularly trained in this way is also automatically trained for his own life. We must be aware that such behaviour has caused serious harm to young people with disabilities. Even for many years, the vast majority have been deprived of compensation for disability. According to some media reports, the parents of young beneficiaries only learned from the media about this error. At the beginning of this year, we adopted a decision at the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities calling on the Ministry of Labour to prepare a legal basis for obtaining the right to compensation for those persons who have not obtained the right to such compensation, even though at the age of full age or at the age of 26, in the event of schooling, they met the conditions for obtaining this compensation. Today, we all fulfill this commitment and promise. Preparedness to find a solution to this problem has been going on for a long time. With the law under consideration, we will finally allow the payment of the unpaid disability compensation to those beneficiaries who did not have this right during the period of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years of age and who obtained it after the completion of their regular schooling. Thus, for each month when the beneficiaries met the conditions for obtaining disability compensation, the amount of disability compensation of EUR 382 will be paid. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u322	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u323	Thank you for your word, chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill removes the injustice caused to young persons with disabilities by different interpretations of the legal provisions when disabled persons were forced to choose between two rights, the right to education or the right to compensation for disability. The applicant thus lays the legal basis for the payment of the unpaid disability compensation to those beneficiaries who, during the period of regular schooling between the 18th and 26th years following the Social Protection Act of the mentally and physically disabled persons in force from the beginning of 1984 until the end of 2018, were not recognised for different interpretations by social work centres of that right. In fact, individual centres for social work have also recognised the status of disabled persons since their full age, while others have recognised the status of disabled persons as dependent on the completion of their education. Some, however, did not recognize disability status after 18 years of schooling. Others recognized the status of the disabled only to those who had been trained in a special education and education programme, not to those who had been included in the regular schooling programme. The novelty which is ahead of us, as the beneficiaries recognise all, recognises the status of the beneficiary to those who have applied for compensation and to those who have not submitted it, because they have told those who have not submitted it to social work centres that it makes no sense. In accordance with the law submitted, the amount of disability compensation of EUR 382,32 will be paid to all beneficiaries for each month when they fulfil the conditions under this Act. At the request of the beneficiary, the social work centre will decide on the right. In order to regulate the unequal application of the law for persons with disabilities and the consequences of this, there have been several different stakeholders for a long time, so in the SAB Group we are pleased to have a solution before us that will eliminate different legal interpretations. We'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u324	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 12. 2021, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night. (The sitting was suspended 14.) DECEMBRAH 2021 OBJECT 19.39.)
