ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Bojana Muršič from 11.30 to 13.30, Branislav Rajić, Nik Prebil, Andrei Zabret from 12 p.m., Jerca Korče, Carmen Furman, Aljaž Kovacič, Elena Zawadlav Ušaj, Franc Trček and Iva Dimic from 13.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Daniel Kastelic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, Secretary of State, President! You have before you a proposal for a law designed to provide an adequate legal basis for the systematic financing of rehabilitation and health care programmes for children and young people in compulsory health insurance. Currently, these programmes have legal basis only in the Compulsory Health Insurance Rules, which limits the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia in preparing appropriate calls to ensure their regular funding. The rehabilitation and health care programmes of children have been under way for decades, and their organisers and contractors have thus invaluable experience in this area, and expertise that can be further enhanced with a stable source of funding. With rehabilitation, which is one of the most important rights of people with disabilities – the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also obliges people with disabilities to maintain an optimal health and psychophysical condition. In particular, it works preventively as it prevents the occurrence or deterioration of a number of secondary complications in disability, which would require additional medical treatment and, of course, also entail additional burdens and additional costs to the healthcare system. Also in the context of child health care, natural factors, climate, movement, nutrition, and social effects of association and the establishment of relationships with peers strengthen and mitigate the negative effects of disease, injuries in children. Particular attention should be paid in this regard to children with special needs, which are essential to ensure the participation of escorts on flights, which also requires an appropriate legal basis. The content of the bill tabled by the Council of State for consideration by the National Assembly has undergone quite a few changes during the hearing on the Health Committee responsible on the basis of the amendments adopted. While the current version of the bill still follows the basic purpose of the proposed legislative changes, the issue of the role of the rehabilitation and health care providers of children in implementing the programmes remains open. They have the status of representative disability organisations or humanitarian organisations, but they all work in the public interest. For the successful implementation of the individual programme, practice has shown that it is of utmost importance that the organiser, who already has the relevant expertise, specialised staff and experience in this field, implements it. The current organisers of rehabilitation and health care programmes still call for them to be identified as organisers of those programmes already at the legal level and for a more detailed definition of the content and method of implementation of group health programmes to be organised at the sub-legislative level, as provided for in the current Article 3 of the amended draft law. Because there is a fear that a large number of organizers will suddenly appear and that individual disabilities and their specificities do not know at all. The bill, which you will discuss and decide today, has been given its time and energy by a number of stakeholders in the system, which, on behalf of the Council of State, I sincerely thank them for this. It is also a thank you to all those who participated in the preparation of the basic proposal for the law, as well as to all those who have already tried to provide appropriate grounds at the meeting of the competent Health Committee for the systematic and preventive preservation of the health of disabled persons and children and adolescents, including the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Members and Members of Parliament, I ask you to support the draft law in a form which, according to your assessment, will ensure the effective continuation of the implementation of key rehabilitation, preventive programmes for disabled persons and children, inter alia, in order to properly identify the important role of the rehabilitation and health care providers of children at their legal level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u4	President, thank you so much for your word. The Health Committee is at its 15th session. 9. 2021 as a parent working body was considered by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which was submitted to the National Council for consideration by the State Council. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was provided by the State Councillor Daniel Kastelic, who has taken up the objectives and purpose of the bill, in particular to provide an adequate legal basis for rehabilitation and health care programmes for children and adolescents. Otherwise, you have also heard his point of view in the introductions, and I would just like to thank the state councilor for his constructive cooperation on the committee. The representative of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary Alenka Forte, in presenting the opinion of the Government, summarized the current regulation and the essential emphasis of the proposed amendments and stressed that health, in line with the position of the World Health Organisation, is a general value and a key source for productive and quality life, a basis for social and economic development and a reflection of the social situation in a given historical period. They support the law on the basis of the amendments adopted. More will be said by the Ministry in the coming minutes. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew particular attention to the principle of the division of power and the related constitutional practice, namely that content which is not subject to legal regulation in the light of the legal solutions in force, because they are defined as subject to the regulation of individual laws of hierarchically subordinated acts, cannot simply be transferred to law. It also drew attention to the principle of clarity and certainty, the need for appropriate explanations and the nomotechnical rules in preparation. In the course of the debate, everyone invited to present their opinions on the draft law first received the floor. In the ensuing debate, the members and members of the Committee agreed that the purpose of the proposal was good, while they advocated a more comprehensive and legal system-wide reform of the legal regime instead of partial interventions into the existing regime. They were united in the view that the legal regulation of rights so far regulated at a sub-legislative level was necessary. On certain issues, however, different views were also expressed, which were also reflected in the amendments tabled. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to Mrs Alenki Forte, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u6	Good day to you all, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, the honourable drafter of the law! Thank you for your word. The National Council has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Health and Health Insurance Act. The proposed amendments provide for the establishment of the rights of rehabilitation, group training for disease control or the health status and treatment of children in the colony as defined in Article 23 of the CFSP. These rights are now regulated at a sub-legislative level under the mandatory health insurance rules. The CFSP-T proposal also provides for the completion of the second paragraph of Article 23 in such a way that part of the compulsory health insurance funds collected from professional risk contributions, on the basis of a call for proposals, are allocated to the social partners represented at national level to carry out preventive occupational health and health promotion projects. The current law in Article 23 provides for the payment of health services from compulsory health insurance, the right to rehabilitation and participation in organised training groups and, in addition to physical therapy and the necessary health services, co-financing shall also be provided for the stay, which is not a health service, and for the therapeutic working groups whose content and objectives are not clearly defined as health or social. Following an examination of the CFSP-T proposal, the Government considered that the proposal was contrary to the health care system and was designed in an inconclusive manner, as it adds to health legislation safety and health at work, extending the range of operators of those programmes, while at the same time not laying down appropriate procedures and legal protection for participants. According to the definition of the World Health Organisation, health is a collective determinant; in addition to physical health, well-being and social inclusion are also important. Amendments adopted on 9. 9. at the 15th meeting of the Health Committee, three new rights of group health programmes for children and persons with special health status are envisaged. These services will be fully covered by the funds of the Health Insurance Office. These rights shall be added as new paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Health and Insurance Act. The group health programmes will be set by the Minister of Health on the proposal of the Health Council, which is already a well-established practice for health programmes for preventive and systematic checks, including screening tests and health promotion services. In the second paragraph of Article 23 of the current law, the provision of rights under the preventive and systematic checks programmes and the instructions for their implementation, as set out by the Minister, is therefore new. In this part, the diction with the amendments adopted shall be supplemented by the following: “and the health programmes of the 19th, 20th and 21st indents”. This does not change the methodology of work and the competence of the ministry or minister. Additional amendments provide for the validity of the provisions of the mandatory health insurance rules to be terminated from the date of application of this amended law. The amendments further stipulate that the law will apply as from 1 January 2023, i.e. within a time limit within which the Government estimates that sufficient time will be available for the issue of the Under-Law of the Minister and for the implementation of the activities to initiate the implementation of the programmes in accordance with a new regime which will allow for an uninterrupted way of financing and implementing these services. Therefore, 2022 will be a transitional period where the Minister will also lay down these preventive health programmes with the rule in order to continuously implement them. In addition, we plan to set up a working group in which we will determine exactly what are the representative operators of the rehabilitation health rehabilitation. Preparations are already under way and we have already invited important actors. In view of the above, the Government does not support the amendment and amendment of the CFSP-T, but rather its correction with the amendments adopted at the 15th meeting of the Health Committee, which will undoubtedly allow the legal and actual implementation of the three programmes necessary to improve the health and social situation of children and adults with certain medical conditions. The proposal for this amendment is most appropriate and consistent with the financier, i.e. with the Health Insurance Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, the rest are present, well welcomed! And, of course, a nice greeting to the representative of the State Council! Dearly beloved, the Council of State has, like many times in the legislative process, tabled a bill that, in their view, solves the prevailing situation or problems that still exist in our society and systems. This time we have adopted a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance by Members and Members of the National Assembly. The applicants stated in their explanation that legal changes are necessary because they believe that rehabilitation of disabled persons, group training of children and adolescents and co-financing of child health care should be arranged at the legal level. The main objective of the proposed solutions is therefore to amend the current regime, which according to the applicants is potentially anti-constitutional, by regulating group rehabilitation and child health care at the legal level. Among other things, the proposal also extends the range of beneficiaries of group rehabilitation to people with Parkinson’s disease, persons with severe or severe mental impairment and persons with head injury, and also provides for funding for participation in group training for disease management or for children with head injury and overweight. This time we have shown the interest or support of the law to both Members and Members of the opposition as well as to coalitions. We have all recognized the proposed objectives and solutions as good, only in some ways to solve the problem have we been different. With the amendments tabled and proposed, we wanted to make the marriage matter the best. That is why we have tabled the opposition's parties once again, because we believe that the law can be further improved, but by adopting this amendment we do not condition support for the law. We support the law. Social Democrats recognised the proposed solutions to the marriage proposal as good and supported them already on the labour market. As has already been said, we believe that it is possible to drink the law further by adopting the amendment, but regardless of the outcome of the vote on the amendment, we will support the legal proposal by the Social Democrats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. The novelty brings some new rights to the legal level and entitles them to compulsory health insurance funding, covers the area of medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation of disabled persons, participation in organised training groups for disease management, or the condition and health care of pre-school children, schoolchildren and children with special needs. The formal diagnosis of the problem addressed by this novelty dates back to 2017, when the Court of Auditors, by means of its audit, found that we have a problem in relation to the health care of children and certain other rights, because they should be fully covered by compulsory health insurance and not only in work, as is still the case, and that it is not right for the public health department, through a public tender, to transfer all responsibility to the organisers. These organisers, usually NGOs, do not offer protection within the meaning of the appellate body, nor can they really and consequently parents, who have been proposed by the pediatrician for the health care of the child, are not able to complain in any way if this child is not going on vacation because the organiser, for example, the Alliance of Youth Friends, has not obtained sufficient funds for this holiday through the invitation to tender. Of course, in Levica we support the expansion of the level of rights and the financing of colonies of children, medical rehabilitation, rehabilitation of people with disabilities and so on. We know who is collecting contributions in this country, this is a public health treasury, we know how these contributions are being used, and, of course, it is right that these duties are still the responsibility of the public health treasury, but this must also be the responsibility for implementation. For example, if a child is deprived of a right to attend a health colony, he is not, then the institution is responsible for it. However, the policy objective is, of course, to provide adequate funding and sufficient resources so that all the medical needs of citizens and citizens of this country can be covered as necessary. It is unacceptable that all children for whom a pediatrician proposes not to take this vacation because there is not enough money. It's unacceptable that a selection is made on the principle that anyone comes sooner is grinding because there's no money. All children for whom a pediatrician assesses this need to take a vacation and must be taken into account for how many children have such needs, and it is also necessary to rent that we have children with special needs for whom we need to provide additional resources. Not the situation that we have now when some children do not receive full funding from public funds until this holiday, but at the same time we do not have an overview of the number of proposals made by pediatricians and the available capacities. It is very obvious that the implementation of these programmes by means of calls for proposals and outsourcing of implementation are only demonstrated by the invitation to tender as insufficient in the allocation of public funds, and therefore, of course, there are gaps in implementation and we must transfer to the legal level the rights that are not currently there. Perhaps there will be some opponent of the law who will say that there is not enough resources to be careful about what we finance from the public health treasury. For us in Levica in this case, resources are not a problem. More than once, we have already proposed a budget protector to finance the Institute of Health Insurance or Public Health Treasury, and the political class has always opposed it. There's no way we can agree to find 780 million for weapons. [[shows with gesture]] Just like that, but at the same time, we don't have money for the health colonies of children. We insist, however, that the rights are governed by the public health treasury of which the management body is the assembly and, as such, constitutes an approximation of the democratic allocation of common funds, not by the use of these funds by individual actors with partial interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today's amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which also regulates the rights of persons with disabilities, regulates the rights of persons with disabilities to health, the right to medical and rehabilitation at legal level. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the provision of programmes for faster and quality integration of people with disabilities into society is extremely important. The bill extends the range of beneficiaries of rehabilitation to persons with Parkinson’s disease, persons with severe or severe mental impairment and persons with head injury. The proposal also provides for funding for participation in group disease management training, for example for children with head injury and overweight children. In addition to medical rehabilitation programmes, psychosocial rehabilitation programmes are extremely important and necessary for people with disabilities, which significantly contribute to the success of medical rehabilitation. For all persons with disabilities, it is extremely important to socialize and share experiences that are often delegated to them. Restorative rehabilitation is carried out by physiotherapists and other professionals, speech therapists, psychologists, working therapists, with experience in the field of individual types of disability, using physiotherapeutic methods and techniques prescribed by the doctor specialist, according to the functional status of the individual person with disabilities. Recovery rehabilitation programmes include maintenance of muscle strength, prevention of formation and further development of contracts, prevention of formation and further development of scoliosis, hydrotherapy, respiratory therapy, exercise in walking persons with disabilities, coordination exercise, balance exercise, pain management therapy, massage, lymphatic drainage, magnetic therapy, laser therapy, pronunciation exercise, proper breathing and swallowing. With the amendments adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups, the circle of beneficiaries of group rehabilitation has already expanded on the parent committee, thus allowing greater access for people with disabilities to the necessary rehabilitation. We hear many times, and we like to say nothing about disabled people. The bill was drafted in the State Council. The proposaler, Daniel Kastelic, is certainly a representative representative of the disabled, so the support of the disabled organisations and of us Members was expected. Christian Democrats were already four years ago with the Personal Assistance Act, and after 25 years, we wanted to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and enable them to live their own lives. During this time, at the marital level, we allowed parents to stay together with a sick child, accompany the rehabilitation parents, increase the compensation for disability, as well as the recognition of physical impairment and compensation for disability, which is not due to work injury or labour sickness. We are taking steps forward in the matter of assessing society by how it treats people with disabilities in solidarity and responsibility and how only actions are considered in life. Members of New Slovenia will confirm the amendment of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us the amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by the Council of State. In the form presented, the proposed amendment contained a substantial supplement reflected in the amendment or addition to Article 23 of the current law, which provided that the Health Insurance Office, on the basis of the financial plan, should allocate part of the funds for the implementation of preventive occupational health and health promotion projects in the workplace. The proposal for a law provided that the resources under the invitation to tender could be allocated to the social partners which are representative at national level. The five new articles provided for the introduction of new content and legal basis for rights financed from compulsory health insurance, including rehabilitation of disabled persons, participation in organised disease management training groups or the condition and health care of pre-school children, schoolchildren and children with special needs. After careful consideration and taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in particular in the work which also discusses respect for the principle of the division of power and the related incorporation of the content of the sub-legislative acts into the law, we have decided, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, to complete, together with the coalition partners, the proposal of the law in a way that this will continue to follow most of the proposal's original purpose. The complementary proposal thus covers new content that seeks to ensure a more appropriate legal regime of the existing system, which, according to the lawmaker, works well and is essential for the health of disabled persons and children and adolescents. With a supplement on the parental committee, we have thus extended the right to payment of health services from compulsory health insurance in such a way as to establish three new groups of health programmes. If the bill is adopted in an additional form, group health programmes will be included in compulsory health insurance. So group health programs to strengthen the health status of children who are repeatedly hospitalized or at least twice sick during the calendar year, followed by training to control the health status of children with cerebral paralysis, nervous-muscular diseases or other types of movemental disability, head injury and other similar medical conditions, and children with autistic spectrum disorder, developmental retardation or intellectual impairment, and to improve, maintain or prevent the deterioration of the health status of persons with muscle and nervous-muscular disorders, paraplegia, tetraplegia, cerebral paralysis and other similar medical conditions or severe or severe mental impairment with certain functional impairment. Given that the purpose of these health programmes is similar to that of preventive health services, these health programmes will also be determined by means of a sub-legislative act. By setting the scope of health programmes more precisely and by the cooperation of the Health Council, we can ensure that the programmes include health services based on medically supported evidence. The proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The National Council had already tabled a proposal for a new law that would transfer the rights to rehabilitation, group rehabilitation and health care of children from the rules of compulsory health insurance to the legal level. The proposal further states that the organiser of rehabilitation and joint rehabilitation would be a representative disability organisation, a humanitarian organisation for chronic patients with recognised status, and a non-profit non-governmental organisation for children's health care. Preventive occupational health and health promotion programmes in the workplace would be financed by funds raised at a specific employer rate of 0.53%. Following a discussion on the working body and the concerns expressed by both Members and the Legal and Legislative Service, some coalition supplements have been adopted, which delete the provisions on the financing of preventive occupational health programmes. The new rights programmes, which will be defined at legislative level by adopting the amendment, will be established by the Minister of Health on the basis of a proposal from the Health Council. Amendments to the law are due to take place in 2023. In the SAB Group, we welcome the purpose of the proposalr, but we have had similar concerns as the Legal and Legislative Service in the course of our consideration. Legal solutions are defined as subject to the regulation of the law of hierarchically subordinated legal acts, so we cannot simply transfer them to law. The definition of financial consequences is also unsatisfactory and the delayed implementation of the law raises questions about the smooth implementation of existing childhood care programmes. We are again using partial interventions into the law, which, from 1992, when it was adopted, has experienced many attempts at modernisation to date, but the real renovations, which would follow the time we are in, have unfortunately not come to an end. In the SAB Group, we hope that there will be no delays in the implementation of this part of the law, and thus the restriction of children's rights, we will not oppose, but we believe that the right way to address the issue is simply a systemic approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance to the legal level places the definition of rehabilitation and group rehabilitation programmes and the health care of children and adolescents. The law of which the State Council is the proposer has been supplemented by amendments on the home working body, following more comprehensive and systematic reforms instead of partial interventions into the existing regime. Such an updated text now extends the right to payment of health services from compulsory health insurance by re-establishing in Article 23, paragraph 1, point 1, of the Act, which specifies which services are fully covered by basic health insurance, three groups of health programmes are to be re-defined. The amendment follows the basic proposal of the law, both as regards the circle of insured persons eligible for health programmes and as regards the health conditions in which they will be eligible for these health programmes, adding in the new 20th indent certain health conditions which are not contained in the basic proposal of the Council of State. Given that the purpose of these health programmes is similar to that of preventive health services, these health programmes will also be determined by the Minister responsible for health on the proposal of the Health Council. The basic text deleted the provision on the financing of preventive occupational health programmes. Amendments to the law will take effect from 2023 and, at the same time, the new amendment removes the three rights under the mandatory health insurance rules. In view of the adoption of the amendment, children's holidays will remain the same in the coming year. However, since it is also a medical service, at least a nurse must be present, and the Ministry of the Interior will determine who are the qualified organisations that can organise such holidays. In the Desus Group, we assess that the amended proposal is appropriate and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u20	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! The State Council's proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is urgently needed. The law extends the scope of rights to certain insured persons who have so far not been entitled to payment of health services in full. Patients with certain medical conditions have so far been overlooked and it is appropriate to include them or compare them with other patients who have similar problems. According to the new law, the law regulates the right to implement group health programmes. In other words, it is a medical vacation intended for children who are not yet 18 years of age and who have certain health problems. Sadly, though, many of them see and experience the sea only this way. The programmes are implemented on Fat Rtič, in the heart of Slovenia's Istria. The programme ensures the impacts and medicinal effects of marine water, favourable and mitigating Mediterranean climate and professional care that have a beneficial impact on children through the rehabilitation programme. In view of the fact that such programmes have been in place for more than 60 years, it is sad that only in 2021 will these rights be regulated at the level of the law. It is sad that many children do not have the opportunity to visit the sea once a year because of such and different social pressures on their parents, and through health care it is possible to experience this kind of experience. It is the most vulnerable group of people in our society, further marked by various disease situations, and children are, of course, our future. Today's novelty of the law is necessary at this stage of the civilisational development of society. Now that this material is placed on the legal level, we hope and also expect that rehabilitation programmes will be extended further as regards the scope of services. Although the programme is based on a clinical picture of the insured and is in line with the rehabilitation programme doctrine, science is progressing daily. We hope that the innovations of Slovenian experts will also be taken into account in the content of the rehabilitation programmes and that these proposals will not come under any administrative obstacles. In short, rehabilitation programmes should be expanded as they ensure the well-being of all users of such programmes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u22	President, once again, thank you for your word. I don't think it makes any sense to repeat everything my predecessors said. The fact is that this bill was also created in cooperation with the second house of our national assembly, the Council of State. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased to have an active State Council, which, with its proposals in one way or another, wants to complement, improve, amend existing legislation. We have already worked well together in this mandate, and we have taken some important steps, including with regard to this law. Let me mention that children can stay with their parents until they are 14 years old, those with severe injuries, with disabilities up to the age of 18, and those who need 24-hour care have practically all the time with someone who helps them. These are important things. This law also brings important things. True, we have made some adjustments, but we have followed up on the fact that there are no problems in implementing it, or that it is somehow a matter of what we call it at home. Perhaps once again what has been exposed and there would be no doubt that any organizations involved in this and who have the conditions for it would fail. The fact is that the Ministry has already taken an active approach, invited all of these organisations and will jointly review and, of course, complement what is necessary for the organisers of these activities. It is not a matter of concern that someone who has dealt with it so far and has all the conditions that he must have, not least here is not only a good job, there is also a great responsibility and for this responsibility is also an appropriate frame, but it is important in this way. However, if each organisation were to be defined separately in the law itself, it would be unwise to do so, because a new one could appear within a month or so, and if it wanted to participate in these calls, it would, of course, require changes to the law. Given that the Ministry and the Ministry, together with the Department of Health Insurance, will in some way implement this proposal or these changes, as is the case with the law itself, I think we need to be afraid of anything. Once again, however, I thank Mr Kastelic and, of course, to all those on the committee, he thinks that, a constructive debate. Many were also invited to give their views and express their support for the bill. However, in view of the views of the members of the groups, I am pleased that the law will probably be adopted, if not unanimously, with great support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u24	Good day to you all, colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government! Today, much has been heard in support of this law, to mention only a few details that have encouraged us, together with the opposition, to draw up an amendment to the amendment tabled by the coalition on the proposal of the proposer – by the way, we still do not have a record in the constitution that we have a second home, and if they have sometimes shyly said that we have a second home, now everyone is speaking out loudly that it is another home, but we do not have another home – and the proponents have presented a law that saves a lot of what is lacking in people with special needs. In particular, non-inclusion in society, as we have heard today, but in particular they want to regulate the rights arising from Article 14 of the Constitution, equality before the law, which is essential. Getting involved in society is a consequence if you have the possibility of managing everything else that belongs to you. Where did the error or failure occur? Especially in understanding who is the organizer of the holiday. In our own debate on the parental committee, we have found that, after the amendment's new proposal, the organizer can only be a public institution, a public health institution or appropriate health institution, which is qualified for this, but where there are no non-governmental and humanitarian organisations, or otherwise it can be said that we understand each other, the Union of Youth Friends, which in Slovenia has the most of these kinds of institutions for the summering of children at sea either owning or managing them, and not least have the most experience with the organisation of these children through their long years of experience. So there was a fear that if there were no marriages, they would simply not be able to perform these tasks anymore. That is why we have also asked a question on the committee itself to the representatives of the Government and, of course, we have not received an answer. Some others, on the other hand, explained in their own debate that it was a matter of regulating sub-laws and that it would be settled there. However, the fact is that we have found that the Devil is in detail, or, as we say, in ordinary life, in small print, several times in this country when we adopted any kind of law. And this small print is produced by sublegal acts, a comma falls out, a word falls out, and suddenly certain tasks cannot be performed anymore. These are the administrative obstacles that my colleague mentioned before me that he hopes we will not run into them. By adopting the amendment, we would make it very clear and answer the question of who is the organiser. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court has already ruled in its decision, in particular when it relates to the Health and Health Insurance Act, that tasks must be very clearly defined by law and not by law. That is why I do not see any problem if the organisers are mentioned. It is true, however, that officials would not be officials if they did not come forward when they are least needed and would very much like to add their opinions, which most often causes problems rather than solutions. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm going to open applications for the list of discussers. Please sign up. The first word is Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I do not intend to be long in this amendment proposal, however, or to recapture everything that represents this solution at the level of the law, but I will answer some of the issues that have been raised. Let me get this straight with my colleague Janie Möderndorfer. If Parliament does not have another home, then there is a need to change a wide range of government websites, as well as with Mr Mir Cerar, who was once your party president, you will have to say something about this. The fact is that this term is used and that it is nothing new. However, once again, I am pleased that the proposaler of the State Council has seen this weakness that has been so far, and has decided to take this step also in some way instead of all of us who are in the National Assembly, and to set things up so that there will be no difficulty in achieving it. However, at the starting point of the meeting, where we have considered this proposal of the law as the parent working body, I have highlighted some things that might need to be somewhat in the future, I will not say define, but see how and what. See, today, we are also somehow extending rights through the proposal of this law, for example in the area of co-financing for children's holidays. We include a little more of these matters, but you know, the Health Insurance Office will each year determine the number of participants, it is said, will define the number of participants and the amount of funds it will spend on co-financing part of the cost of travel. Here I have only warned – and I hope that this will not happen – that it will not, in some way, allow a larger number of children or this matter will be better regulated, but in another way that the Institute of Health Insurance will somehow restrict this right again. That would be bad, so it is important that we keep an eye on the reality here, because surely it is the intention of the proposer and of all of us, that everyone who needs it gets it. Thus, the law brings some concrete solutions, proposals that will improve the situation of these health flights, the potential of children with special needs, schoolchildren and preschool children, and, of course, the rehabilitation of disabled people. It's true, nothing about disabled people. Representatives who have organised these matters so far, as well as the disabled organisations who have come to the meeting, have welcomed the law. As it has been said, concern has been raised that none of the organisations that have done this so far would have fallen out, but, as it is said, if it has the right conditions, if it has the right options, it is certainly not in the interests of the Ministry to restrict anyone. Moreover, another organisation could join and it would be very bad to arrange this at the legal level, because then this organisation should wait until the next amendment of the law. In some ways, however, this also prevents equality before marriage, which one might then challenge. I don't think it's right, really not that Levica says that there's not enough money for the holidays and rehabilitation of people with disabilities, but it's going to other areas. That's not true. In the coalition, we support and believe that this bill, as it has been said with the changes that have been required, must be implemented. Moreover, I said earlier that we have also allowed a larger number, including older children, to stay in hospitals and various health care facilities with their parents. All of this could have been done by the Left, and it's already the second term in the National Assembly, and she didn't do it. Sometimes I'm getting a little ahead of this one, I'll say, populist views or opinions, if you, you give for all the other money, you forget about it here. No, some of us just don't forget anyone. However, some of you had the opportunity to devote yourself to one another and forget about all the others. As for the current government, as we say, we are doing a lot in the field of health, we will spend a lot of money on more than 2 billion on health investments. We dedicated them to schools, schools, and kindergartens over 100 million — how many? – €116 million. Also the Slovenian Army absolutely. But what will we do without the Slovenian Army, without those who are in the service of the country and 24 hours available for the needs of the citizens if they find themselves in distress? We absolutely support this bill. We've just adapted it with the amendments, so it's acceptable now, so it wouldn't be any different. However, I have said why it seems to us that the proposed amendment is not appropriate and that it is the right way to set it up with a rule and to enable all those who have the capacity, the capacity or organisational capacity to participate in these programmes and not to reinvigorate them, but, if necessary, if there are more of them, to expand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. The bill, which introduces new rights and mainly regulates their enforcement, is the right to medical rehabilitation, rehabilitation of disabled persons and health care for preschool children, prepared for the treatment of the State Council and thanking him in this regard. This is an important matter which has begun with the Court of Auditors' audit of 2017, which has found that there are problems with the health care of children and other rights that I have previously stated. The Court of Auditors said that the rights should be fully covered by compulsory health insurance and not as before where the first person is practically the first person to arrive, as long as the funds in a limited amount are available. And also that the Health Insurance Office, through a public tender, must carry out all the responsibility itself to have legal protection established in terms of complaints, if any right is not regulated. Since the Ministry of Health of this case has not settled in the past, the Court of Auditors has also made a request to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the problem work of the compulsory health insurance which regulates these rights and then to the Constitutional Court and the case has been resolved. Unfortunately, it wasn't the Ministry that arranged this. It was, like I said, the State Council. I would only like to draw attention to these matters as regards the health care of children, children who need to be completely preventive because of their health status, especially respiratory diseases, as well as other health problems, sea-based vacations, which are financed as a preventive programme, because otherwise health problems arise. Their resolution is a problem for the child and for the parents, and above all it is a high cost, significantly higher than in the case of curative care for children. The fact is, and here I also understand the amendment, which has been made with regard to NGOs, that they have the greatest practice, experience, professional approach, knowledge of how these things are implemented with children, NGOs such as the Union of Youth Friends, the Red Cross. It is also true that many municipalities have homes for children’s holidays, and these have in the past run for health insurance funds. Unfortunately, this was not present throughout Slovenia and children were discriminated against here. Some came to this vacation, but others were virtually disabled or did not even know about it. This amendment to the law now regulates this matter in terms of eliminating discrimination and ensures the equal position of both children and persons with disabilities. I'd like to say this. When it is said that parental leave will remain the same and even increase, I remind you once again that the person who decides which child needs this vacation – this is best known by the child’s personal doctor and pediatrician. In the past, the rules of the Institute of Health Insurance have stated that such a holiday belongs to children who have been hospitalised or have been sick twice in the past year. That was one of those criteria. Now, the criterion is to say if this has happened in the current year. Once again, in the current year, it means the following. The invitation to tender for the holiday must be issued in March in order to be adjusted by 1 June when these holidays begin. This is said to have been available for three months to determine whether the child has been hospitalised within these three months or has been sick twice. I think that this thing needs to be done differently, probably taking into account the past calendar year, because as many children as possible will benefit from this preventive right that the law gives them. And that's what I'd say. The Health Insurance Office is the one that carries out all procedures concerning the collection of applications for participation in these annual colonies. Another time. It is also the one who has to provide funds for this funding and thereby enable all those entitled to this right from compulsory health insurance to take a vacation. As my colleague Miha said before, in Levica we absolutely support this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! You know, today when I came to this room, I wondered whether it was possible, at least in this law, which is here on the proposal of the State Council, in fact the disabled organisations, which Mr Daniel Kastelic presented very correctly, to avoid politics, political accounting and reconciliation, to these ugly boutiques that we are so pleased with the political parties we are exchanging. My call is to at least try it in this law. I must say that the law that the State Council has drawn up is supported. I must say that, as the majority of the opposition, the four opposition parties, on the proposal of the Council of State and Mr Daniel Kastelic, we have tabled an amendment. This amendment doesn't change things by turning them over. It brings two important things. Remarkably moderate – not only heavier and difficult, but also moderate – severe and severe mental impairment. In the view of the disabled organisations, it is important to mention it, and what will we do if we do not follow this proposal? Another time. We wrote what the State Council wants, but at least the opposition convinced us. It is that those who have already performed quality rehabilitation and other activities to help disabled, children with disabilities and the like are simply not put on the sidelines. Therefore, we wrote: “The content and method of implementing the health programmes referred to in paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the previous indent, including the conditions to be met by a representative disability, humanitarian or other non-profit non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest as an organiser of group health programmes, shall be determined by the Minister responsible for health.” Once again, although we are under the amendment signed by the opposition parties, this is a proposal that we have received by e-mail all political parties. So when we vote on this amendment, you will not vote on the amendment of Dejan Židan, Violet Tomić or Gregor Židan and others present, you will vote on the amendment they support – and it is my duty to present it and support it – the State Council and disability organisations. I'll make a dot here. I didn't hurt anyone, I didn't stab anyone, please, let's take it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you. The fact is that the text we have on the table today does not really introduce anything new, but it does change what has actually been shown in practice to have to be changed. So something that is being implemented very successfully in practice is being passed on to the legal level. This is important, and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, both the law and the amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups, which we have co-signed, of course, we support. As it is said, the programmes we are talking about have been implemented in our country for many years, they have been carried out by NGOs, disabled people and other humanitarian non-governmental organisations operating in some public interest, and in fact some have acquired extremely valuable experiences, extremely valuable knowledge in the full three decades. It should be said that these skills are also specific, that programmes have been implemented, implemented and put into practice, and shaped into exactly what those children need. We are talking about preschool children, schoolchildren, those who need rehabilitation or health care. These things are important, so it is important to be careful how we now move this practice to the legal level. Therefore, it seems very important that we pay attention to these details. With the amendment of the opposition, in the first place, we add people with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment to the beneficiaries of the group health programmes of rehabilitation, as has already been said today. I believe that in this Chamber we all agree that any child who needs such rehabilitation must receive such a vacation. Who needs this more than the people we're adding now? And as I mentioned earlier, it is clear that the representative disability, humanitarian and other non-profit NGOs are those who can and must continue to carry out these programmes in an organised manner, so that it will not happen by chance that these organisations, which were the driving forces behind the implementation of these programmes, which have the greatest knowledge and most experience in this area, would eventually fail. We will support both the amendments tabled, and we do not condition, but we feel good, and it would be good for all of us to support these two amendments together and then the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the Protection of Animals in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. We got him? No, no, no. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. He's not here yet, but the minister came in the middle. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to present the government's opinion. Please, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u34	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We've got a change to the Animal Protection Act. This amendment to the law mainly refers to the protection of domestic pets, and this amendment of the law regulates certain anomalies that have not yet been regulated. Initially, we have also taken into account the opinion of the majority in this National Assembly, as well as the various NGOs, to the extent that it was possible to find appropriate harmonisation. In some cases this could not be found and therefore some decisions may be less harmonised, but I think they follow the protection of domestic animals as well as the welfare of these domestic animals. What are we talking about in this amendment of the law? The law amends certain provisions of the Act on the protection of animals with regard to responsible animal ownership by introducing better traceability of dogs and banning dog tying, by introducing a requirement for basic knowledge of animal biology. It introduces new restrictions on the private ownership of exotic animal species, prohibits euthanasia of healthy abandoned animals in a shelter and the killing of animals for obtaining fur, aligns criminal sanctions with new provisions and allows for higher penalties for offences and lays down transitional deadlines for the implementation of new provisions. Let me briefly explain some of the news that the law brings. When we talk about more precise dog traceability in order to prevent and limit dog trafficking and illegal dog trafficking, we are talking about how the law provides for the labelling of puppies by the age of eight weeks, that is, when the young are still in bed. We also speak in advertising that the number of the chip should also be indicated when advertising dogs if it is older than eight weeks, and if it is younger than eight weeks, the number of the mother’s chip. When we talk about responsible cat ownership, to reduce the number of abandoned cats we propose in law the possibility of proving the ownership of cats by voluntary labelling. So those owners who have precious cats or cats that are particularly close to them can also mark this by voluntary labelling. We also allow some additional action by local communities to increase sterilisation and castration, i.e. to reduce the number of abandoned cats in individual local environments. When we talk about restrictions on the possession of exotic species of animals for the protection of the life, health and welfare of animals, for the protection of health and life, as well as conservation of nature, we introduce a so-called list of permitted and prohibited species. Prohibited species may still own zoos or special gardens, while permitted species may be owned by everyone. In the case of authorised species, let me add that by means of a sub-legislative act, we will lay down these two lists by means of a regulation and will also add the task of the Section for the Protection of Animals to draw up these lists. The species that will be allowed are, in particular, those species that do not pose a particular risk to human life or health, do not pose a specific risk to biodiversity and the conservation of the environment and can easily provide for these animals welfare in terms of ensuring adequate housing conditions and there is also sufficient information on the welfare of these animals. Come in. We also introduce responsible animal ownership by requiring knowledge of basic knowledge of animal needs and care. This will also be the first remedial measure to identify some irregularities. We are also supplementing the provision on the field of dangerous dogs. Here we have in mind mainly shepherd dogs who carry out their work in the protection of herds, and we will also compare them with other working dogs. We introduce a ban on tying with certain exceptions, we also introduce a ban on electric collars, we prohibit the execution of domestic animals, we also define cost carriers, and, as I have already said, we also impose higher penalties for offences. However, I am likely to be able to provide further information on the amendments below. Allow me just one more sentence, Madam President. Members and Members, the Government, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes that a third consideration of this proposal be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal of the law as a working mother at its 30th meeting, held on 8 June. 9. 2021. The Committee has received written opinions from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Žalec and the Association of Suppliers of Slovenian Protectors. Most of the comments made by those stakeholders relate to the proposed amendments to Article 31 of the current law. The Association of Shelters considers that the care of abandoned animals should be fully financed by local communities or by the State and that the local communities are of the opinion that the care of abandoned animals should be fully financed by the Republic of Slovenia. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia point out that the changed definition of abandoned animals imposes new tasks on municipalities and increases their financial burden. They also believe that the care of abandoned animals should be raised to a provincial or state level and therefore propose that the costs be borne by the state budget. In the event of the adoption of the law, the Association of Protectors of Shelters announced a constitutional assessment. The Committee took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the written opinion that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In addition, it highlighted the provision of Article 2 of the draft law relating to the definition of a competent veterinary organisation. According to the PSC, the legal position of the competent veterinary organisations in relation to the processing of personal data by owners of pet animals is unclear. A representative of the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia also participated in the discussion, explaining that the Chamber in principle agrees with the proposed solutions and further suggested that the rearing of functionally unhealthy animals be treated as animal torture and appropriate sanctions. It is a breeding of animals whose phenotype or genotype is based on characteristics that cause animals pain, discomfort or otherwise harm their health. The Veterinary Chamber also proposes the establishment of a system of mandatory annual veterinary checks on dogs and cats with a view to preventing and early detection of diseases, increased control of zoonoses and increased control of animal welfare conditions. A representative of the Association for the Protection of Horses also participated in the discussion. The company considers that the new law should also regulate the protection of breeding animals and should lay down a condition for the protection of breeding animals and that equidae should also be added to the Regulation on the protection of breeding animals. The members of the Committee expressed their support in the debate for the proposed solutions to the draft law. The discussion focused on the two amendments of the SD Group, namely Article 8, which would include the tying of dogs, the restriction of movements of pets and the exposure of animals to inappropriate temperatures and weather conditions causing them to suffer, injury or death, and Article 12, which proposed that the costs of care for abandoned animals in the shelter should be borne by the holder of the shelter and by half by the municipality where the animal was found, if it did not provide shelter, and the Republic of Slovenia. The members of the Committee of the said amendments were not accepted. With the proposal of the Left Group for the amendment of the Committee to Article 8, under which the dog must be bound on a horizontal leash and not a classical collar, the Committee agreed and adopted its amendment to this Article. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and adopted them and adopted all the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, Minister! This law we Members and also the public have been waiting for a very long time, somewhere since 2017, when the government first proposed it. But we finally got this important novel on the table, whose solutions in our opinion will have a very positive impact on the welfare of animals in this country. Despite the good solutions that are in law, the law does not remove the main problem in the field of animal protection that we have, and this is humanely fed and irresponsible inspection. For example, the law prohibits dog ties. This is due to the inhumane treatment of dogs that some owners have had all their lives chained to one metre of short chains and possibly tight collars. While we welcome this ban, we know that this has not been allowed until now. We already have the Regulation on the Protection of Pets, which prohibits the binding of a dog, the binding must not be less than three metres and the dog must not be tied to a tight, painful or tight collar and so on, but it does. This attachment is now prohibited except in certain exceptions. But there are other solutions that we welcome, and let me put them out. Responsible traceability in online advertising. We are witnessing illegal trade in animals and there are many different ads for dogs and cats on Facebook, on portals, on fleas.net. And then, of course, for half the price, you get this dog somewhere in the parking lot or just by the road. People drive away, you don't get any receipts, and then no one picks up the phone number. The next positive change is the restriction on the possession of exotic animals. Animals of wild exotic species that were trapped in nature are not domestic pets. In fact, most of these animals then develop behavioral disorders in captivity, get sick, die because guardians do not know or simply fail to provide the usual conditions required, which are the size and spread of space, microclimate, social structure, specific diet and so on. Other good changes are also in relation to the fact that a complaint to the decision that the dog is dangerous does not hold back its enforcement. So you have to treat a dog like a dangerous dog when you get a decision. Moreover, the shepherd dog does not immediately become burned like a dangerous dog if he defends his flock. For in principle shepherd dogs do not attack and bite hikers on the mountains, if these walkers are not truly vain, and do not force them into the livestock which this dog keeps. We also welcome the ban on the killing of animals in shelters after the past 30 days, which most of the shelters have not yet begun. I must say that we also welcome an amendment that allows for movement in both directions from the leader. I would like to point out that we have proposed an amendment in Levica to use bras in this case, but unfortunately it was misinterpreted in the media, and many thought that they could no longer walk with a dog without a bra, which is absolutely not true. We were talking about dogs tied up. Veterinary and animal behavioural experts have researched evidence of damage to the use of collar in very active dogs, guards who collide, alerted to the possibility of fatal damage to the spine, paralysis of the front legs, clenched sapper, fracture of the cartilage bones, partial, complete asphyxiation and so on. That is why we have tabled an amendment that has been supported by so-called all Members of Parliament. It was also supported only by the Ministry of Agriculture. Despite the fact that much dust has been raised as a result of misinformation, we in Levica insist and support our amendment, as well as many solutions that go in the direction of better animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia we advocate respectful treatment of our environment, fertile land, drinking water and animal life, and diversity of species. Taking care of all of this is our goal. Protecting the environment, animals, species and resources is our common task, which must be pursued by each individual. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act regulates the area and definitions of dangerous animals, slaughter of animals, abandoned animals, shepherding dogs and wild cats. In the possession of exotic animals, the law establishes a list of permitted types of pet animals that can be owned by all individuals and a list of animals that can only be owned by animals. More precisely is the definition of when a dog is dangerous, and if it is a dog that is dangerous, an exception is added not to be classified as a dangerous dog that bites if it is a shepherd dog during the protection of a herd in a fenced pasture or the protection of a herd at the presence of a shepherd. Surely a big change is a ban on dog tying, as dogs can only be tied for a short time. For animal welfare, the size of dogs, the length of guides and attachments and the way dogs are tied to guides are determined. If we had guards walking freely around the yard in the countryside and on farms a short time ago, this law changes. On the parental committee was adopted the amendment of the Left, which says that the dogs on the guides are only bound with a bra. In Novi Slovenija we are against such a record in the law, because breastplates for large dogs are not suitable. According to the Kinological Association, which we have all received, the collar is even more suitable and optimal and does not harm the healthy development and health of the dog. An international comparison shows that the legal definitions are not known in any Member State of the European Union alone and only to the bra. The amendment tabled by the coalition in the course of business adds a non-binding collar next to the bras. Most marriages talk about relationships and care for small animals, especially in rural areas. Nowhere is there any information or recommendation on the welfare of small animals in cities and city centres. We don't think it's most appropriate that dogs are locked up alone after eight, 10 or more hours in an apartment, and that there are up to 20 cats in a one-bedroom apartment. Every animal needs space, care and care. The law regulates the labelling of cats and the registration of the cat and its owner in the central register of pet animals and prohibits the killing of a healthy abandoned animal after 30 days in a shelter. The payment of the costs for abandoned animals shall be adjusted. For the first 30 days, the cost of an abandoned animal is the expense of the local community, so to speak. After 30 days, the costs shall be borne by the owners of the shelters and, if an animal remains abandoned for more than 120 days in the shelter, the costs of the day-care of the animals shall be borne by the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of this change, a public financial expenditure of EUR 300,000 per year is foreseen, but this will certainly have to be monitored in order to avoid any annual increase in costs for abandoned animals over 120 days. Small animals and pets give many of us free moments, encourage greater movement and fill the void. It is right to take care of them and treat them responsibly and respectfully. Only as a society will we advance and develop a sense of responsibility, respect and commitment. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the law with the support of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The bill before us is a comprehensive and systematic step towards improving animal welfare, taking better care of them and establishing a more responsible attitude towards them. The range of solutions addressed by this law is diverse. Due to the spread of online trade, which is also active in the field of dog sales, additional requirements are introduced to limit the illegal sale of dogs and dogs from unverified breeds with better traceability. Voluntary labelling of cats is possible and the possession of so-called exotic animal species is limited. An important novelty is also the demand for the adoption or fulfilment of the skills needed to provide optimal care for breeding animals by the carers. The law also complements the provisions in the field of the definition of dangerous dogs, regulates the way dogs are tied, prohibits the killing of animals by skin or fur. Particular attention should also be paid to the provision prohibiting the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters. Despite the fact that many shelters in Slovenia are already implementing a policy of non-killing, we are pleased in the SMC that no-kill policy will find its place also in the legal standard. With regard to shelters, the new law also deals with the sharing of costs for the care of abandoned animals. And last but not least, the possibility of imposing higher fines for offences is in place. At the time of the consideration of the law on the home working body, the coalition parliamentary groups have supplemented the bill with an amendment prohibiting the use of electric collars designed to educate animals on the principle of causing electric shock. We surely agree that it is high time that electric collars become just the past. In our view, the law is quite broadly harmonised and, as such, will certainly be an effective and necessary response to the great shortcomings of existing legislation. Due to the increasing sensitisation of society in the field of breeding animals, we also want this group of animals to be referred to in the SMC in the future. When it comes to animal welfare, we strive for the latter to concern all kinds of animals and not just pets. We are pleased, however, that there is a possibility of applying for certain calls for grants in order to ensure better living conditions for breeding animals, but we believe that there are still many possibilities for improvement in this area, since the scenes we occasionally see in the media and show the situation on individual farms justifiably raise doubts that what is currently legally compatible is not justified by the position of humanity and the pursuit of the highest benefit of animals. Every marriage is just a dead letter on paper if we don't inside it, but in the SMC we think that as a society we've matured so much that we realize that animals are sensitive beings and that there is a broad social consensus that aims to better regulate this issue. The proposed amendment to the law is certainly an appropriate step towards improvement. In the SMC, we have consistently demonstrated that animal protection is a high priority on our scale, so we will make every further effort to further improve the legislation in this area, as well as the law before us today, of course, we will unanimously support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! In March last year, we unanimously supported the amendment of the Real Law in the direction of separation between ordinary objects and animals. The fact is, animals are sensitive living things. This provision was an introductory step towards improving their situation. It was already quite clear that the Animal Protection Act would also need to be amended. The proposed amendment to the Animal Protection Act first introduced the SD in the legislative process in the spring of this year, but was rejected. The Government has tabled its proposal for a law that is in front of us and complements and amends the provisions of the current Animal Protection Act on responsible animal ownership by introducing a better traceability of dogs and banning dogs, by introducing a requirement for basic knowledge of animal biology, to introduce a new restriction on the private ownership of exotic animal species. The novel provides, inter alia, for the prohibition of euthanasia of healthy abandoned animals in shelters and the execution of animals for the purpose of obtaining fur. It also aligns criminal sanctions with new provisions and allows for a higher sentence for offences. It is essential for us to make legal changes to the welfare of the animals we share this world with. We find it important to ban the bonding of animals on chains, to set standards for dogs, to ban the killing of healthy animals in shelters, to restrict the illegal sale of dogs from unverified breeding. We also strongly support no-kill policy that prohibits killing animals for the purposes of skin and fur production. All forms of animal torture are unacceptable to the Sab client and offenders must be punished. In the SAB Group, we welcome the decision of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to adopt unanimously at the Committee the proposal of the Left Group for an amendment, whereby the dog must be bound on a horizontal leash and not a classic collar, as long-term attachments may result in damage to the neck and spine. Also in the SAB Group, we call on the coalition to support the proposed amendment, which financially burdens local communities on financing animal welfare costs in shelters in such a way that for abandoned animals the costs of care in a shelter up to half of the Republic of Slovenia and up to half the municipality. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposed amendments and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! In the Desus Group, we welcome the proposal for the amendment to the Animal Protection Act, which is on our table today. At the time of the last rejection of the parliamentary law, we received quite a few criticisms, but at that time we assured ourselves that we would support the already prepared government law, which regulates the area more comprehensively. The proposal that we are considering today also introduces a ban on binding dogs with rare exceptions and the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters. It also prohibits the killing of animals for skin or fur production. In addition, it adds to the more precise determination of the traceability of dog origin in order to prevent and limit dog trafficking and illegal dog trafficking. It introduces provisions on responsible ownership of cats, reducing the number of abandoned cats. The novela is still concerned with the possession of exotic animal species, which is limited to the protection of animals themselves and to the protection of human beings and the preservation of nature. Today, too, we can repeat, as we said at the previous reading, that if we are able to empathize with another, the suffering of animals cannot leave us unharmed. Can the law generally prevent the suffering of animals? I'm afraid he can't. We can only lay down certain frameworks that will give certain animals more protection and demand responsible ownership from owners. An amendment to Article 8 was adopted on the parental committee, which provides that a dog, which may be attached as an exception, must be tied only on the lead, with a bra and not with a classic collar. Compulsory bras only apply to dogs tied to a horizontal guide and do not apply to dogs on a walk. In principle, however, we agree with the view that we not only prevent the dog from moving, but also by developing our social skills. We've domesticated the dogs, we're people, we're their herdsmen, so we shouldn't leave them alone. There will still be a need for a certain thought leap in this area, but we are certainly going in the right direction. The introduction of a ban on the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters raised the issue of financing day care. Although we have heard in the debate on the working body that euthanasia was already very small, according to the novel after 120 days from the day the animal was placed in the shelter, the cost of providing shelter will be borne by the State. In summary, we welcome the novel in the Desus Group and will support it, as we have already foretold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u48	There's nothing between us that's against animal welfare. Humans bear responsibility for their lives, health, and well - being. It is the duty of all, in particular their guardians and at the same time local communities and countries. The proposed amendments and additions, which have received unanimous support from the parent body, follow this benefit. These include the exercise of responsible animal ownership, the reduction in the number of abandoned animals and ensuring respect for the predominant social ethical values of their treatment. These goals raise human standards for animal relations and cannot be disputed. This is also clear from the consideration so far of the draft law and the opinions of all stakeholders who have not expressed any more opposition to the proposed amendments. Compared to a similar bill that we dealt with a few months ago, the law in question is more comprehensive. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we agree with the proposal for mandatory dog labelling already in place, since this would prevent and limit the reselling of dogs and illegal trade in dogs. The proposed solution for voluntary cat labelling also makes sense to us. The urgent obligation to label cats would lead to problems in particular in rural areas, where many cats are so-called free to live and their owners are not even known. The arrangements under which cat labelling would be voluntary, according to our assessment, do not significantly undermine their welfare and protection, but will also help to reduce the number of abandoned cats. In the context of this novel, the non-aligned Members are primarily seeking to implement as soon as possible the ban on the killing of healthy abandoned animals in shelters, the prohibition of killing animals by way of skin or fur, and the prohibition on the use, sale and marketing of electric collars causing electric shock, and thus the pain and suffering of animals. We also agree with the addition of a law that prohibits the bonding of dogs with a few exceptions, such as a walk, a veterinarian or a guide. There has been a broader debate on the issue of how to tie the dog to the guide. In our view, it would make sense that dog tying is not only possible with bras, but also, in particular, with collars, as this is also the case in other countries of the European Union. The collar, in the opinion and experience of the kinological profession, represents the most appropriate way of tying and keeping the dog and enables the dog to move naturally. The Cinological Association of Slovenia also points out that the use of the bra has proved inappropriate for general use, as it poses a danger to a dog that can and cannot be solved with a bra. In this case, we assess the unaffiliated Members that it is valid to really listen to the cinematic professions. Both dogs and other animals need a complex environment in which they have social contacts with peer animals as well as with people. The key to synergy, to co-existing between humans and dogs lies in the education of the first and the education of the last. This is the only way we will keep our oldest friend, historically, where we need him and where we want him, and with him we will maintain the relationship we owe him as responsible for the development of mankind. The unconnected Members will be supported by the amendment of the Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present in the Chamber, especially to the Minister! During the epidemic, many found comfort in domestic pets. On the other hand, online shopping has taken a big step forward. It would be foolish to believe that merchants and butchers with native animals will not find a market niche here as well. There are many examples of online abuse in the purchase of animals. The stories are almost bizarre. The shelters have reported that the number of adopted animals has increased during the time of the declared epidemic, but in recent months people have returned them, which is all too much to be responsible. It would be a lie to say that the number of abandoned animals has increased in the last year. Otherwise, I expect such statements from some more left-wing non-governmental organisations, which simply sequence what the current government is doing wrong. The fact is, we've had problems with abandoned animals, especially cats, for years. To many children, it seems heartwarming to take a cat from farmers when it's still a baby. Then she gets tired of her young toy and then we know how far it's gone. Many of these cats then land on the street and later in the shelters. In this place we can only thank all these workers and people who have been caring for all these abandoned animals for all these years. It's only right for them to step in front of us. The proposal for an animal law has some shortcomings, but it substantially adds more. We can only hope that the animal registry will at least partially regulate animal ownership. Otherwise, I think it makes sense that all urban animals, pets, must be chipped. In the future, it would also be wise to consider the tax on domestic pets, since these are a kind of luxury. Even compulsory courses with anyone who decides to take animals into their home would not be bad. Realistically, a large proportion of animal owners do not have the basic knowledge to work with animals, only so that they can understand how to handle each type of animal. The choice of animals is based on the fact that they like the animal, what it requires, and what it requires is a second sweep. It's like choosing furniture, not a living being, and they seem to be able to put everything together on their own, even though there's some kind of screwdriver left. In 2018, we raised the animals to sensitive living beings, and the opinions on this are divided. We will never exceed the difference between understanding the importance of animals in rural and urban areas, but we can draw new foundations for the treatment of animals, and it certainly begins with registration and ownership. But I am aware that much remains to be done in this area. It's a place to start. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! After 2007, when we adopted one of the novels of the Animal Protection Act, when we have regulated the area of so-called dangerous dogs, we now have before us a new law that gives the concept of animal protection even greater meaning. When I was alone, I think that, in 2019, the only Members present at the Interdepartmental Working Group to prepare a draft of the Animal Protection Act and when I met representatives of various ministries there, I did not believe that we would adopt such important legislation in the field of animal protection in this mandate. There officials from various ministries almost laid hands on themselves, raised their hands to do what needed to be done, but how everything could not be done. Therefore, from this point of view, we commend the minister and the team for inviting these inter-ministerial, inter-ministerial officials to work seriously, and that is why today we have such a good law before us. That marriage is good, there are at least two things to say. That he was not at the very meeting of his mother's working body, and today there is no amendment of the opposition. And last but not least, that the law is good, there are also NGOs that have almost failed to comment on this law. Therefore, few of us in the SDS Group regret that, six months ago, one of the opposition's members from the Offices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food took a bad, incomplete and, above all, uncoordinated law and introduced it into the National Assembly in accordance with her pear agenda, where they then showed who is for the protection of animals and who is against the protection of animals on various social networks. That is why I am pleased and I hope, given the position of the groups of Members, that today we will receive the unanimous support of such an important law. But what good marriage does it give us if practice is bad? Therefore, from this city the invitation to all owners of domestic animals to regulated ownership, to take care of their pets and, finally, to take care of these pets. From this place, from this point of view, we appeal to end the stories of animal torture. In the SDS, we will support the bill because, as has been said many times today, it brings so many positive things that we believe that in future and final provisions they will experience a good epilogue in order to be positive in determining the traceability of the dog's origin. To introduce the responsibility of cat ownership to reduce the number of abandoned cats, it is also likely that the domain of a wide range of residents across our Slovenia, not least the mayors, who then encounter this problem with their officials. We are very pleased that at least we have finally taken a bite to the notion of restricting the possession of exotic animals. Above all, we are pleased to have written down in the law itself what is needed, what knowledge is needed to work and cooperate and live with pets. Above all, we are also interested in how this will be implemented in practice, as it is said that after 2007, we will take a further step towards solving the problem of dangerous dogs. Last but not least, such as the ban on the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters, the identification of a provider of costs for the care of abandoned animals and so on and so on. In short, so many good provisions in the Animal Protection Act that we not only support this law in the SDS Group but also hope that this law with good ideas, with good wishes, will live as soon as possible and as well as possible in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The fact is that the changes brought by the novels of the Animal Protection Act are essential if we are to be of course a society that accepts animals as sensitive beings that deserve a humane and respectful relationship. In the LMŠ, we are convinced that, like our duty to be human, it is our duty to treat animals humanely. In relation to man – an animal we are obliged to raise our civil standards. The proposed amendments to the Animal Protection Act are welcome. I will not list all the solutions that the novel brings, but I would point out those that represent the greatest reflection of the change and progress of our attitude towards animals. These are provisions that eliminate euthanasia of healthy animals in shelters, provisions that prohibit the tying of dogs to chains, extend the field of prohibited conduct and give rise to higher penalties in the event of animal abuse. That's what's in a good marriage. However, in the LMŠ, some of the other solutions offered by the novels highlighted the lack of ambition of the Ministry, in particular the financing of the care of abandoned animals. Even after the new funding burden, the congregations will still bear this burden. Our view is that the country should be more involved in sharing financial burdens with the local community, and, last but not least, we are sad that the proposal for funding with municipalities has not been harmonised at all. In doing so, we find it difficult to accept the Ministry's argument that if the State were to join the financing more actively, the shelter would not be trying enough to find a new home for the animals. In fact, in shelters, there are loving and responsible people who strive for the welfare of animals. They are often financed from hard-earned funds, including donor funds, which is why, in our view, such concerns are excessive and perhaps even inappropriate. Surely there is plenty more room and ways to make our society as aware as possible of responsible animal treatment. In our view, dissuasive sanctions and more effective controls also play an important role in this regard. In the LMŠ, we have expressed doubts on the working body about the effectiveness of the so-called corrective action for owners who have been legally found to be violating the treatment of animals. According to the new legislation, the offender will have to undergo compulsory training based on the basic knowledge of animal needs. We still wonder whether such a measure will have the desired effect at all, whether it will deter future offenders from mistreatment of animals, while we hope that the Minister's assurance given to the Committee that sanctions will be effective will be realized. In the LMŠ Group, we are convinced that after the adoption of the amendment to the Animal Protection Act, we must look ahead. We do not want a country that follows only to protect animals, but we want them to be leaders in this area. In our view, it is time to take a more active approach as a responsible society to regulating the system for abandoned, abused and unsustained breeding animals, where legislation does not yet reflect the level of awareness we have adopted in our society. In the LMŠ we will support the proposal for the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u56	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Given that we have very important themes today, I have been preparing for the law on the protection of public order and peace, and, of course, there is also the law on the protection of animals, which is extremely important, so I will present this position first. We've been talking about the Animal Protection Act for quite some time. Even before the current minister occupied this city, in the previous coalition with the then representatives of the Ministry, we coordinated and met on the subject of the Act. It must be acknowledged that we have waited for quite some time for the legal matter before us today, and many questions and initiatives have been put or addressed to the competent ministry to prepare and submit the law. We have also been among those who have repeatedly called on the competent ministry to prepare the law. The bill that we are adopting today was tabled shortly after we drafted in the Group of Social Democrats a bill on the protection of animals, which had the same or the same solutions as it does today. Unfortunately, the law of that time was not adopted, the ministry said that it had its own ready, which will have more solutions, and in particular these solutions will be comprehensive and systematic. If we were able to implement a new definition of animals as sentient beings almost a year and a half ago, today, I hope, we will be able to do things that will further protect animals from suffering, torture, inhumane behaviour and contribute to responsible ownership. By adopting this law, we will move the scale of our civil development more and thus further contribute to a more humane and sensitive attitude towards animals. Like our Member Law, it also prohibits the execution of animals for the purpose of obtaining skin and fur, enforces so-called no-kill policy, which means banning the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters, introducing responsible ownership of cats, determining the possibility of imposing higher penalties for offences, and most importantly, prohibits the binding of dogs. We also wanted to write among the solutions to the law to prohibit the restriction of the movement of animals and their exposure to inappropriate temperatures and weather conditions if this exposes them to suffering, injury or death. We wanted to relieve the local communities financially, but unfortunately the amendments on the home committee were not adopted. We have re tabled the amendments and we urge you to support them. We believe and know that our proposed solutions are good, some even better than those proposed by the Ministry. As we are aware that the solutions provided by the marriage proposal are good and in the direction of improving animal protection, we have already supported the legal matter on the committee, and we will also do so in the vote on the final content of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm asking for applications. We have three reported discussers. The first is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, then Mr Željko Cigler should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. We usually have a slightly broader debate at the first amendment. I won't be long and I don't know how wide, but it's a few things that seem important to me. It is true, as has been said in one of the positions of opposition parties, that it seems right for me to actually be trying to come up with some solutions that would improve the Animal Protection Act in this respect, of course, into animal welfare since 2017. Today we have before us a proposal for amendments. Companion Tomaž Lisec took a very good look at how things were in the past when, in fact, at those coordinations — as he thought — there was no light at the end of the tunnel, so many different arguments in the sense of what is not possible and what is not possible. Well, there's a proposal ahead of us today. I believe some people would want more. That's always the way it is. Once there is a proposal on the table, in politics, those who want to find something that is missing in every way will say that they should be even more ambitious. With each marriage, we can say that he can be even more ambitious, but I think we need to look at things for real. And today we have a proposal that certainly improves the situation. I think that I must take advantage of this moment also for a matter which has seemed completely incorrect to me in the past. It was an area of so-called animal protection. My colleague Lisec has already raised a bill that was proposed by one of the opposition parties, and I will recall that entry then in the Real Law Code that animals are sensitive beings. At that time, some of us told us what the problem was and how we are still aware of what animals are and that we will do so in concrete terms with the law that solves it, and this is the law. At that time, because of the manipulation of one of the parliamentary groups with the announcements of our vote, if we are against the protection of animals, we have received a great public outpouring. I'm calling because I was one of them, and I was pretty much attacked by my decision. Of course, citizens and citizens did not know where, of course, they did not all see the transfer. And it's just me, but you know, who I've had for 10 years at home as an adoptive puppy, I've been attacked when I'm not sensitive to animals. Which, of course, is not true, even since there is a law before us today, which I welcome, I support, and I am happy that some things will improve. About the amendments that were tabled, like this. Of course, there could be pingpongals here, how this funding should be regulated, or just local communities or some countries and so on. It must be said objectively and truthfully that in this mandate, we have increased the mandate of the Prime Minister, Janez Janša, to improve their position with a few measures, so that we cannot say that we are not concerned about local communities. But we can all do together that these costs will not be high for the country or for the local community. And what is that? This is how we in the National Assembly, as well as in the country and local communities, call on citizens and citizens to decide on the various small animals that enable them to improve their lives, especially those who are lonely, to decide on adoptions. As soon as these adoptions are in place, there will be fewer animals in prisons as soon as we receive them. Of course, on the other hand, to work preventively, to urge people not to leave the animals, to try to find solutions earlier or to allow them to live properly. I think there's a lot to be done in this preventive work, actually, because more and more people who, with these animals that they have at home, not only feel more useful, but also many times their loneliness is being eliminated by these animals, because they don't feel lonely, I'll say. True, small animals give you much, but of course they are also a great responsibility. And that's what you have to say over and over again. I would like all those who then decide to adopt and who deal with the adoption of animals to tell the people who choose animals clearly about the specific characteristics of animals, even when we're talking about larger dogs. Because people need to know what kind of animal they're dealing with. I would now focus on the amendment of the coalition, under which the Slovenian Democratic Party has also signed, regarding so-called bras, collars. When I first saw the matter, that it was accepted on the committee, that all the animals or those on the leash should have breastplates, I was appalled because I said, “What about my dog?” My dog is a greyhound, he's a runner, he has a special body structure, a narrow neck and so on, and he can't actually wear a bra. We also tried the bra, you won't believe it, but of course it turned out to be very bad. A dog like us owners had a huge problem. Of course, people have rightly expressed concern, I believe that cinematologists are the ones who will define what collar, how it takes to guide a certain type of dog. Big dogs, cinematologists also warn of this, need a different way of managing it than, I don't know, some other smaller breed. I welcome this amendment, and it is right that those who are experts in this field somehow direct the owner to what collar the dog should use. I also think that we should not stay on the level, that these pets are luxury, at least most of the cases I will talk about, in the vast majority it is not luxury, but people who want to help these animals, and as I also said for the needs to somehow improve their living status. But I will now say out loud that with my colleagues, colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group, I will consider the possibility of taking a step forward on another law, given that we are on the one hand calling for people to decide on adoptions and so on. Many times people, even those who care about these animals, have the expense of making this animal sick and so on. Given that veterinary services are accounted for at 22% of the tax, it would be worth considering in the future if we came up with a solution to account for this at a reduced percentage rate, it would be by so-called reduced, which would certainly allow a larger number of people to visit a veterinarian when they think that anything is wrong with their animals. The fact is that today many cannot do this, these services are not cheap and then they and theirs suffer, if I tell my pets, I probably won't do anything wrong. I thank the Ministry for a big and important step, and I hope that the situation will be better in this area. However, I agree here with colleague Violeto Tomić, who has pointed out that inspection and all this is necessary reinforced work, and in particular in some way to get to the owners of abandoned animals. This is also important because certain congregations have a real problem with this, for individuals who leave, leave the road, the people, is quite something. I would like to point out here that, despite the situation in Slovenia so far, thank God, it is not so bad in this area. I'm glad. We also have many congregations that handle these waste bins and so on. So, as a society for these animals, I think, for the most part, we have a relationship, unlike, I don't know, in one of the Balkan countries, where these dogs are literally standing, moving along highways, and it's only a matter of time before they get to the worst. All good to our animals, including by improving their situation with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with just one technical explanation for all those dog owners who accompany us, there will be no misunderstanding of the marriage text. The article referring to the bra is an article which currently sets the mandatory bra only for dogs tied to a horizontal guide, and the bra is not defined as mandatory for the use of a bra on walks, as Mrs Anja Bah Žibert discussed. I am not interfering with your debate, just a technical explanation that everyone accompanying us will know that the breastplate for use on leash walks is not currently prescribed as mandatory. Just a technical explanation. Now it is time to discuss Mr Željko Cigler, and earlier Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is procedural. Before I give you my word. I think I was very correct, I did not interfere with your debate, but I have only explained the content of this article, which defines the breastplate, and will later be able to confirm, Mr Minister, who has applied for the word, that my interpretation or interpretation of the texts is correct and only a warning to all those who accompany us and are dog owners. If you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u60	President, this was not technical, it was not your business involvement, but it was substantive. You're the one who explained the amendment. If you want to explain the amendment, you need to apply as I do to the debate. There is absolutely no need to explain and explain the amendment. I've told you what my point of view is, I have every right to do so, and I also have a right to discuss it. I was right, and I didn't hurt anyone that needed some kind of intervention of yours regarding the ethical code. I'm really asking if you have any personal problems with me not to take advantage of this when conducting meetings of the National Assembly. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u61	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I don't know if this intervention was in place at all, because I've been very kind and very well-intentioned to say what this is about and what the law actually stipulates. From the beginning, I said that I am not getting involved in your debate, and I will never be and never have. The content of the amendment on the table is, of course, within my competence to explain what is going on, because we are still discussing the amendment to Article 8. And it seemed to me completely in place and well-intentioned that I had pointed out a technical aspect. For the dictionary and the text of the amendment are still a technical aspect. And I never interfered with your debate, and I never will. As it is said, the Minister will probably be able to say what defines this text, which speaks of this mandatory bra. So much for that. I hope we can all be right without any preconceived or subdued. Mr Željko Cigler has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First, Madam President, thank you for this explanation. I think it's on behalf of everyone who follows the dogs or has dogs. My family member is also a puppy from the shelter, he has a relative, so he's a hundred percent hybrid. Everything we do is for the benefit of our living beings, animals, which I say are both domestic and breeding animals in Slovenia. We must not be discriminated against here, especially by the Ministry responsible for this area, which has been authorised by the Animal Protection Act and gives it the authority and responsibility to ensure that all animals are treated as living and sensitive beings in our country, without any of them that I will speak of later, in particular the livestock, are completely neglected that I do not prefer to talk about the game. I mean, it's good that we have one such relationship. The amendment of this law is now improving this relationship, but more needs to be achieved. In fact, all animals, as I said, are sensitive beings and have the right to be treated as such. For their protection, the first State is responsible, and this is how the State must act. It is their responsibility to take care of them, even though we must take care of people for foreign animals or for those we have as pets at home or as breeding animals or as savages. I must say that domestic animals are a few times less than breeding animals, but when domestic animals, puppies, kittens, what I know, what others are like, and from ferrets to birds, parrots and so on, protection is provided. Almost as a rule, it is carried out by NGOs, but also by other public institutions. It's not like that in breeding animals. Article 5 of the Animal Protection Act states that breeding animals, equidae, such as horses, parkers, poultry, rabbits, furskins and other animals that are reared or sorted. And when the inspection or veterinarian finds — and this was on the committee where the minister attended — very clearly stated by the people or NGOs working in this area — that the animals are severely neglected, tortured, in inhuman conditions is called, those who cannot be carried away, then there is either execution, immediate euthanasia, or what was terribly heard, but we had to hear, 30 pregnant cattle are taken to the slaughterhouse, pregnant cattle for neglect, or try such an animal, horse, donkey, cow, whatever else. Although I know that one sick, tortured, severely damaged breeding animal will be difficult to sell because we know that the one who would buy it has nothing, or would have, in particular, the cost of rehabilitating it, the new socialization and recovery. Fortunately, Slovenia is positive in solidarity and these breeding animals are exclusively cared for by NGOs without the country. We only have one right now who is doing this, and this is the Society for the Protection of Horses and Other Animals, in particular breeding animals, which has its own seat in Orova village near Polzela. Thank them and all the honor. The Minister was warned about this and told us that he understood these things because he's been a farmer all his life, even a doctor of science, that's what I'm adding. Which is why I would expect him to show a positive, fast, active relationship here. At the very least, and I am surprised that this would not be the case, although the Minister said that he would ask for an opinion here and activate the Expert Council for the Protection of Animals, as defined in Article 38 of the Law on the Protection of Animals and said: “In the Ministry it is established,” says the Council for the Protection of Animals, composed of recognised experts in the field of veterinary, medical, biological, pharmaceutical and zootechnical professions and representatives of societies acting in the public interest in the field of animal protection. The number of members and the composition of the Section Council shall be determined by the Minister.” And see: “The Expert Council for the Protection of Animals monitors the state and scientific knowledge in the field of animal protection and proposes activities; gives opinions and suggestions.” I wonder why, so far, and why, in changing this law, the protection of breeding animals, which are several times more, I repeat, as pets, has not been established. Just as we talked about what some of us were, so was a representative of a non-governmental organisation. I said, this is the Society for the Protection of Horses and Other Animals, the only animal shelter they have, but they have no official status and therefore depend on their own resources, donations and voluntary work, and for nine years they have been doing so, they are a non-governmental organization in the public interest. Why do they not get official status in order to develop the practice that is urgently needed in this area? I repeat and also insist that it is necessary, Mr Minister, that I know not now, but I hope that you will be able to do something by the end of your term of office in the Animal Protection Act also to introduce the conditions and standards for the protection of breeding animals. And that the society that is doing this now – if there are more, I don't know, at least after our review, we have found that they are not – recognises the status of animal welfare. I think the problem is so big and hot that it has to be done quickly. Quickly, as soon as possible or I don't know why it hasn't been arranged yet. I also ask the Section for Animal Protection of your Ministry why it has not yet been done. Next. In order to recognise, on the basis of education, the official status affording them, in accordance with the powers in this field, for the inspection services of the Food Protection Office, and one cooperation and authority should be similar to that of both the police and the municipal officials in this area. This allows – if we establish animal inspectors, not only to wait for inspectors and veterinarians who also have a lot of other work, especially regular veterinarians – to report to inspection services only real neglect, torture, suffering, and thus the official veterinarian has the possibility of a faster and realistic review of the actual situation where it is necessary and does not result in unjustified applications and unjustified costs. Mr Minister, I still insist that one or more of these shelters should be made, including public economic services, state or municipal, I do not know where the animals taken are located. Especially in order to make use of the buildings and areas of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which are now empty or unused, have been increased. And interestingly, in Oro's village next to Polzela – once again I say thank you very much for what they are doing, socially beneficial, animally beneficial work – such buildings are in the immediate vicinity of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund, unfortunately unused. And the cost of such a shelter would immediately be reduced. Next. I also think that such a society should be reimbursed for the protection of breeding animals daily costs, for example, for 60 days when livestock is taken, as is done for small pets, so that animals are not discriminated against here because they are all living and sensitive beings. Like I said before, this company that has a shelter just covers all the costs. And that's what I'd say. In the award of concessions for regular annual veterinary checks of farms, one cross shall be removed to practically the same area, for example Savinja Valley, the same veterinarians shall carry out inspection and veterinary work. Of course, in inspection they will not be sharp because they are losing customers, and inspection should be carried out by veterinarians from another part of Slovenia, but in another part rather than double inspection and veterinary services. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, hello, Minister! My friend Željko Cigler said what to say here. And I know that you, Minister, have received quite a lot of information on the key from the Society for the Protection of Horses. I really ask and expect you to be sensitive to this subject, because an animal is not a stuffed animal or a trophy. It's a sensitive being, and we all agree. And this sensitive creature suffers from muteness, cannot call the Ombudsman or a lawyer. Whenever an animal resists and defends itself, they brand it as dangerous and so forth. The animal responds only, the animal is not evil in itself, nor aggressive in itself. Then sometimes we read, the wild bull escapes from the slaughterhouse, or we are very insensitive to the slaughter of calves in front of their mothers and so on. All of these are things that we, as a quality and good society, must address, for we always show the attitude towards those who are without protection, as we are in reality. Since almost every debater has also given a little autobiographical information about his relationship with animals, I will also say that I have all the time adopted kittens from the Cat's House. Let us also take care of those we catch, sterilize, and return to the environment. And I always have one dog. I admit, I like bigger dogs, even because dogs are harder to adopt. Few people can afford them, because you know, all the veterinary care goes to weight loss. For my puppy, the one I have is usually more than well taken care of because he becomes a member of the family. I have to say, I'd sleep in the basement if my dog couldn't climb the stairs or anything. I've done a lot for them. For example, children who want to have a puppy do not know what terrible suffering there is in these so-called animal factories, they see only a cute animal, so parents need to be informed that they need to adopt, give them a home, someone who is already here and who is lonely and alone. I would like to remind you of one very good practice. When I was walking my puppy, I met a boy every night carrying a leash with me. When I asked him what that meant, he said: “My parents told me to fulfill my great desire to have a puppy if I walk a leash every night for six months.” That's what he trained his discipline with. I think it depends a lot on parents how they raise their children. Let me now touch this amendment of ours. Yeah, it's all about horizontal guidance in watchdogs. And it is a shame that so misleadingly came into the media and people were scared because it is ugly to manipulate with a good purpose to take care of the welfare of an animal. A fellow Servant said that the cinematologists have some concerns, for a dog can be entangled in the bra. But you know, they warned us that he could hang himself with a collar. We had when I was little and we were a lot less sensitive to puppies, a dog that was running on the lead, but because it was going to the basement, he fell down there and then the neighbors saved him last minute, but he was hanged. In the UDIS we also received a warning from a cinematologist who says that even an electric collar in the rearing of attack dogs is very useful so that they can be tamed by mild electroshocks. So as many people as possible, as many opinions as you know. However, some common sense must be taken into account here. I think when it comes to animal welfare, we can really stand together and leave behind all our other misunderstandings. The fact is that hooves and farm animals are extremely forgotten, because they tend to breed horses butchers while serving their purpose and bringing money is fine, and then they leave it or end up in sausages, and sometimes we good intentions to buy healthy meat for the child are full of steroids, hormones and the like, which is unacceptable. The Society for the Protection of Horses saves this animal. I would therefore like to reiterate once again that it is important that human resources and non-responsible inspections are addressed, however, because inspectors barely succeed in doing what they want to do in order to do. And the rotation. Of course, someone who is in Brežice should go to Celje or Novo Mesto at least, not give his area, which he is already responsible for, inspection supervision. That would make it easier for us to do our job. It's also their wish, this rotation, clearly. If there were nationalally organised official national animal welfare facilities, they would also make it easier for the veterinarians to work, as they would know where to go with them. Some donations, voluntary contributions to redeem these animals, are expected. And then, believe me, it costs a lot of money to heal an animal like that at least enough to live on. Of course, these animals bring them back. I can tell you that the animal that was tortured once you give her a sense of security, love, is the most that a person can get back. This loyalty, this gratitude from the animal. That's really indescribable. Constituent facilities and farmed land owned by the State. Indeed, we could take a step forward and help these people who care for these abandoned or suffering animals. You know, I know that money always stops. When it comes to giving some money, our love and affection stop very quickly. Unfortunately, this is how we are made in every regular donation. But let's just think about it, and one euro per citizen would solve the problem of all abandoned animals, breeding and domestic pets. And I believe that even the poorest would not miss that one euro. Let me also remind you that, in our previous mandate in Levica, we have been able to achieve a ban on dog fights, and I am very happy that we are. Because on TV when you turned it on, I don't know what program it was, you could see a woman bragging about dog fights being her life and making crazy profits. The dog will always do what the owner wants, and once again, I stress, there are no dangerous dogs, they are just dangerous owners who drive them into such incredible and impossible things. I'm gonna stop here and leave a few more minutes for my friend if he uses it. But I think we really need to talk about this again, and I welcome every step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Now he wanted the word, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me just a few thoughts, responses to the debate. We also sought some solutions with the congregations, not just with the municipalities, regarding the financing of care for abandoned domestic animals. We have also tried to find solutions with others, including what Mrs Tomić mentioned at the end of the debate, a new contribution for domestic animals, whatever, we had everything on the table. All the different options, however, in the end we decided not to change the financing in practice. Financing is the exclusive competence of the municipalities, so caring for abandoned domestic animals is the exclusive jurisdiction of the municipalities and is also included in the average that municipalities receive for this purpose. I add that 30-day care by municipalities is also now in place if there is no known owner, otherwise the owner of the domestic animal is responsible and must also take care of the financing. However, we are adding one change, namely the taking over of costs by the State for those abandoned animals which are not available to the owners in the long term. So, after 120 days, this is a novelty, enter as a fundraiser for the care of these animals by the state. And that's new, so far it hasn't been, so far it's been 30 days and nothing more. 30 days of local community, since then nothing more, now from 120 days forward is a state again. As regards the welfare of animals, as well as some proposals for a clearer definition for domestic pets as regards their responsible behaviour, let me add that all the prohibited conduct is already contained in the existing law, in Article 15 of this Act. Now the question is whether it is necessary to add, add and additionally standardise, because I think that this doctrine, which is in the existing law, is good and, finally, we can control it. If you, honourable Members, also decide to adopt the amendment proposed by the SD, we also understand this intention, but I believe that the existing law in this part is sufficiently normal. For it is necessary to be aware that even with the additional amendments on these standards, we will still leave room open, because we probably can't all of them together, we don't know, we don't know. That's why I think this general diction is good enough for this matter as well. He'd touch his own bras and collars. We prohibit dog tying and only allow for certain exceptions. Exceptions are tying up, for example, when we go with our home dog on vacation to camp and so on, there can't be down, there's no room, we don't have a dog, so fences so we can let him go free, so he's there with us and he enjoys that holiday and he's still available. He's also on a walk where he has to be tied up because of the safe movement of all of us. Just like taking him to the vet. There are still collars allowed. It's not forbidden by this law. However, we ban the electric collar for raising and disciplining or rearing dogs. We also allow dogs to be tied to so-called farmyards. Most of the time we talked about it, because we know that the dog often plays a role in the protection of property in farmyards. Anyway, we have other techniques. Today, too, there are no problems, cameras, alarms, and so on, there is still a large farm yard of a domestic pet dog to warn if someone who should not or should not, or any other way, come and protect this property. In this case, too, this dog may be tied on a leash or leash, however, if this cylinder is at least five metres long and the left movement is enabled, at least four meters to the right, so that the dog has enough room for some normal movement. And here was the dilemma and also the amendment that was put into this part to allow for either a bra or a collar that does not cause additional pain, thus allowing for some normal life of that dog. I think that the last amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups also proposes a bra or collar that does not cause pain. Perhaps a few more responses to the debate followed later by Members of the Left Group. I thank you for many initiatives, ideas, but now I can say – who knows how long my mandate will last? Because you suggested that I complete my term of office by the end of my term of office. Maybe I won't even get a chance. But, however, I understand very clearly the intention, and yet, for domestic animals, the owner is responsible. The state's just setting some standards for protection. The owner is responsible for domestic animals, for breeding or for pets. Likewise in breeding animals, I really thank you for the debate we are repeating from the committee to today. We talked about this on the parental board, too. We are very clear on animal welfare in the strategic plan, where one of the three key priorities is. In addition to adapting to climate change and modernising the agricultural and food processing sector, the welfare of animals, which is also clearly indicated in the amount of resources that we are earmarking for this purpose in the strategic plan, because we also know that our agricultural economies need to adapt to the new standards that are emerging within the EU. I can already mention that in this implementation of the strategic plan, we will practically co-finance in the implementation work with EU funds and with the Slovenian participation of only that investment in barns for domestic breeding animals that will follow the latest animal welfare standards. So we will not ban others, but we will not co-finance them, because we also want to help with this measure to adapt the agricultural economies to a new standard. For example, there is a lot of talk in Europe about the ban on cages and it would probably be a senseless investment or the use of Slovenian and European cage building funds, if we know that they will be banned sooner or later. The timeline is not yet known, but this initiative has been given by European citizens and has also been taken very seriously by the Commission. So it's going this way. The ministers are reminded of the time to adjust, but one day this moment will probably come. Let me add that breeding animals are really more than domestic pets. However, I do not think that inappropriate breeds follow this. So there's less and less inappropriate breeds. And also the Department of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection immediately checks any application for suspicion, suspected maltreatment of breeding animals or domestic animals, but speaking of breeding animals. Similarly, our Food Safety Authority also has a mobile unit that checks the situation in animal transport. I think we've all had a chance to see it on TV, too, if we haven't been to Luka Koper in person, where the barn is designed to make the animals rest before they board the ship. And let me add that our Food Security Authority has already prevented animals from being boarded in Luka Koper because of inappropriate transport conditions. I think that in this part we are already making a great deal of effort to make animals, including breeding animals, do as much as possible. Thank you also for the initiative on annual inspections with the veterinarian and inspection. I wrote that very clearly here. In my view, this is already being done in practice, but I am not ruling out the possibility that this is not the case. That is why I thank you for this information, and I have written it clearly. With regard to new shelters for breeding animals, and in particular with regard to growing lands which could be used for the care of these animals, I fear that the growing land is for the purpose of growing. As a rule, these areas are more difficult to access, more difficult to manage, and I fear that the shelters of these lands will not be used effectively to obtain feed for possible breeding animals. Let me just add one more thought. Mrs Violeta Tomić spoke earlier about raising children. I have to add, and allow me this personal experience as well. My children also earned a puppy by carrying a leash for six months, and now we have a puppy at home. I understand very much, and I have felt very moved before when Mrs Violeta Tomić explained this experience. Yeah, this is where it starts. Caring for pets is more than just having one, but caring for pets is essentially a great responsibility. And I think that this law also imposes this great responsibility on all holders, owners of these domestic animals, or breeders, and especially at this point in time in the law of domestic animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. I can see that. I'm opening the application. We've got five reported discussers. The first one gets the word Mr Predrag Baković. Get ready, Mr. Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, once again! I will focus very briefly on these two amendments, which we are re-investing. We have also tabled them at the committee's own meeting, where I have actually discussed in this direction that legislation governing an area must be clear, concrete, unequivocal. We are proposing an amendment that specifically stipulates that restricting the movement of pet animals in a way that causes them suffering, injury or death is prohibited. So this means leaving animals in closed cars in the hot sun, exposing animals to cold and wind, which can leave animals cold. There was an explanation, and perhaps to some extent I also agree that in article 15, in the second indent, this offence is somehow covered in a way that prohibited conduct is one that exposes animals to fire, hot, edible, toxic or other means and other physical and chemical effects contrary to provisions. Someone understands that exposure to cold and heat can have a physical effect on the dog, but we must be aware that the animals are just leaving in closed spaces in the hot sun, exposing the cold to the most common infringements that occur in practice. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for this amendment, if this amendment had been adopted, to be clearly stated, that the exposure of animals to inappropriate temperatures, to weather conditions causing them suffering, injury or death, to be written down in concrete terms. For we can all understand a certain sentence in the right way — or not. And if these offences that I have cited are actually the most common in practice, I think they deserve a special place in legislation. That's why I don't think there's anything wrong here if they specifically define these crimes. As for the second part, we also discussed and today the Minister explained about the burden on the municipality of animal care costs, namely, we propose that this be divided by 50 % of the costs being borne by the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the country and the municipality. Of course, then I can also understand the concerns that you mentioned, Minister, that it might also be possible for these animals, who are in the shelters, to remain there longer than perhaps at another moment, because those animals could be kept in this shelter mainly because of the financing being made, or not least because of some of the calculations that you mentioned, that the municipality could also pay more than it is currently in the current legislation. Of course, these are theories and practices that we can talk about and we can agree on or not. I would like to draw attention to another point, namely that in the southeast of our country, where we have Roma settlements, this phenomenon of stray dogs is also greater than elsewhere in Slovenia. And for this reason, the congregations in these very territories are having trouble caring for these abandoned dogs. For we all know that when it comes to the Roma village, dogs are not chipped, nor are they treated against diseases, nor are they vaccinated. And they're not from anyone. And since it is not the owner, then this account comes at the expense of the congregation and then there is a problem on a slightly larger scale than ever. Because these congregations also exercise tighter controls in these Roma villages with veterinary inspection, with the police, and I don't know who else. And then the removals of these dogs and the placement in shelters are more common than in other congregations. Hence, it may be appropriate for congregations to be burdened in such a way that they can be divided righteously into a nation and a congregation. So much for thinking again. I think the amendments are correct. They're not made of ideological or I don't know what kind of moves they're made of, but we're really thinking practically. I therefore propose that you support these amendments, your fellow Members and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u70	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Animal Protection Act, which is on our table today, is, if I say a little dramatic, often agitated spirits on the one hand and on the other. Of course, at this point, we all want this law to be even more ambitious, but I strongly support this proposal, which in particular improves the current situation. If I get back to myself, I can also say from my own experience that my daughter has a domestic animal, a bunny that I have to say has created some permanent working habits for her and cares for her. I must say that we also had a desire for a puppy, but we have resolved this matter in a more elegant way, so that we can borrow it from the neighbor, which also allows life in the village; and I must say that we and the neighbor have acquired it here. If I go back to law, I can say that today's proposal is more detailed in the field and in the various definitions. Here I would particularly welcome the definition of shepherding dogs and wild animals, abandoned animals, slaughtering animals and dangerous animals. I also received a variety of letters by email and also by mail, which I also read in more detail. According to the Kinological Association, which we have probably all received in the National Assembly, the collar is the most suitable, optimal and does not harm the healthy development and health of the dog. I have looked at international comparisons where it is clear that the legal definitions alone and only for the bra are not known in any Member State of the European Union. That's why I'm going to support the amendment we tabled in the coalition to add a collar next to the bra. So much for a little while. However, at the first point, where there is a slightly broader debate, I would like to draw attention to two points. First of all, I would point out the different lives of the inhabitants of the countryside and the inhabitants of the city centers. In particular, in the area of domestic animals, I would appeal to all citizens, which is to say those who live in the countryside and in cities to try to understand a little bit, to coexist together. Above all, I will highlight a case that happens to us many times in the countryside. We have arranged runways, arranged walkways, to mention that my village goes by a very well-known Kette path, which is very visited. On the one hand, citizens and citizens coming from urban centres often paint domestic animals and resent these domestic animals when they are on the chain. For the second time, they are disgusted when these animals are free, let down, and perhaps smelling someone or even barking dangerously, which does not mean that he is a dangerous animal. If a little dog like that barks at someone, it's not dangerous. For this reason, I would ask the people coming from the city centres for me, as a man living in the countryside, the dog that is flushed has all the conditions for the best life, at least in my personal opinion. On the other hand, people from the countryside, my neighbors ask me, "Look, on the other hand, puppies live in towns in small apartments on 40 square meters, when the owner is not home all day, then the climate doesn't work, there are non-life hot conditions in there, and what about the rights of this puppy? That is why I would really like to ask that in the future we really try to coexist in some way, understand each other and, above all, realize that both sides must be most aware that as the owner of a domestic animal, it is necessary to find as much time as possible for their domestic animal. And that's the most important thing for you to do with him, take him for a walk, give him the right food, and, by the way, knock him out, and so on. But in the end, I'd like to mention and point out one more thing. As I mentioned earlier, I come from Illyrian Bistrica, through Illyrian Bistrica takes a summer trip to the sea and a huge, huge number of cars of foreign registration plates, which also carry their domestic animals. I must admit that I am deeply saddened that many times and in recent times more often these owners leave these puppies, kittens and similar domestic animals at various resting places, at various gas stations, and drive towards their beautiful vacation. And then these animals end up in one way or another, but here I really have to commend the inhabitants of Illyrian Bistrica to find understanding and adopt these domestic animals many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. The next debate is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. A colleague from NSI also had a very interesting discussion about this relationship, which we sometimes have with animals living in the bloc's settlements and with animals living somewhere more than in the natural environment, is said in villages. Sometimes we see the problem of just one, and we overlook the problem of others. I have to take another call about the amendment, because I think that I have not been fully understood or has been reached into my debate. So once again, I've given an example from my home environment for a dog for which there's no way it's appropriate to have a bra. I couldn't tell you the experience if he was on a leash, because he never did. But I said that the walk we were trying to take with the bra didn't end well. The shorter walk did not end well because the dog became entangled because it squeezed him in the chest and hindered him in his movement and, according to his constitution, caused him very serious problems. And that's why I think it's an amendment following the cinematologists, but the cinematologists are people who deal with both breed and dog education to enable one or the other option when it comes to attachments. In his explanation, this amendment stated that collar straps can cause damage to the neck and spine. True, in certain breeds, it is either absolute or mixed. In certain breeds, breastplates are a serious obstacle to the dog and can also cause it injury in essence. And that's why I think it's logical, however, that we leave the professions and those who know the most, and that dog owners wonder what's most appropriate for their kind of dog. After all, it's hard in here to define what a dog is. We also have the mixes and so on, what the dog was used to, you'll probably find it hard to get him into some other habits now and only cause him more trouble. I think that the command to have dogs on the moors, just with collars, is a bad solution or much better to leave the option. Of course, there have also been speeches about so-called electric collars, and these will now no longer be in use. Well, there have been, I have to say, different opinions on why this is being used, but I think this solution is much better. I always listen to these things professionally. You know, some also have dogs at home, as previously said, in 40 squares, just because they're in some boxing because they're afraid of destroying the space, the furniture they have at home. And there are dogs all day long on not even a square foot, but literally in a cage that is substantially smaller. But there are different arguments here, too. I am in favour of listening in the future and, however, consider also those parties who have proposed this solution with collars or bras, that the collars are also necessary for a particular type of dog.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Dear Mr. Minister, a replica of you before. You said that the care of abandoned animals is solely the responsibility of the congregation, which is paid out of the balance. But who is competent and has jurisdiction over the animals that have been taken away? True, the owner of the domestic animals is responsible, but if the veterinary inspection takes him away from him, where he will be put, except in the slaughterhouse or in ransom. Like I said, no one buys. And I would like to say that what we have proposed in Levica to do is to build at least one or more official state shelters for breeding animals, this is also the wish of the official veterinarians, inspectors, because this would enable them to do one easier activity, easier and better work. This thing doesn't work, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next debate is mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Let me begin by saying that, of course, I am also in favour of the bill, which has many good solutions, appropriate solutions, which I believe have also been the product of long-standing initiatives, which we have also addressed to the Social Democrats themselves, of course also to opposition colleagues. And that this has only brought some step forward in the consciousness of all of us sitting here. If I recall the first year I sat in this Parliament, when we came up with the idea of defining animals as sentient living beings, I personally received quite a few ridicules. I don't think he's much of a debater today who wouldn't point out at least a few times that animals are sensitive living beings. What is forgotten is that we are not just talking about domestic pets as sentient living creatures, we are talking about all animals. All of them. About the breeds, about the domestics, about the wildlife. That is why this debate is always a bit of a two-faced one, because the same Parliament, which speaks of animals as sentient living beings, takes an easy decision on the withdrawal of bears from nature, saying that they will be shot away. Arso issues a decision on the shooting, which later falls in the Administrative Court, but again nobody gets hurt. This discussion is always a bit of a two-faced one, and we are not yet where we should be. If they were there, there would be no such debate. If there's nothing wrong with herding animals, I'm sorry, that's clear. All the recordings we received – and yet they knew how to behave, I do not say that everyone, but many — all show it. And then, of course, there's the reaction of citizens and citizens when nothing happens there, when these kind of videos are seen, and then there's a proper inspection and there's no irregularity. And to understand each other, I understand that an inspection must detect certain things directly, but the recordings that were circulating a few months ago have shown, at least for my eyes, that there were many irregularities and, if you would like, torture these animals. I think that this law is of course welcome, and I really hope that it will raise some level of protection, is also in many solutions similar to the law that we have already proposed by the Social Democrats, which was rejected by the committee at the time precisely because we are supposed to consider government law. Of course, we will not deny it, we will support it. But my purpose is, Minister, that we are able to understand that there are many things in practice still very wrong, and that the obvious torture of animals we understand differently from inspection services, I do not know. Personally, I think that the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats is also very necessary, as my colleague Baković has already said – exposing animals to inappropriate temperatures and weather conditions that cause them suffering, injury or death. Why? I'll give you a direct case. This summer, in Portorož, we have seen many citizens and citizens directly tortured, at least in our opinion, and this has been very rounded up online. In fact, it went on to pick up a dog by itself, put on his glasses and hat, and the dog was then exposed to the sun for at least 10 hours in hot weather, directly on a Puerto Rican platform, where there are no trees and so on. There was a really bad reaction from people. The report went to the police, the inspectors. The inspection then came, but she didn't detect a direct violation. Of course, this left an extremely bitter taste in the people who experienced this torture who reported it, but nothing happened. And then, of course, there's some perception of people that obviously this is all still admissible. It is not permissible and it is necessary to say clearly and loudly that this is not permissible and action must be taken. The police have also dealt with this case, but have not detected a violation. I don't know if it's normal for a dog to be exposed to these temperatures for 10 hours from 35 to 40 degrees in the summer season?Oh, my God! That there's actually a toy that's supposed to get the money from this beggar. Desperate. And that it really was torture, it really showed a lot of people who reported it, so I think it's necessary and necessary to have a clear record in the law, that it's unacceptable if maybe the inspection couldn't act on it. Because when the inspection came, she should not have detected this person, but then she did in the evening, and then she didn't have a violation. But there were more people because it was obviously an organized group. Every day, all summer, on the Puerto Rican platform, on the promenade, these dogs were exposed to very harsh conditions, because we know that during the summer time animals should be at home or, of course, not exposed to these conditions. We also had dogs locked up in cars, then the inspection took action, and so on. In short, this provision is in order to facilitate the work of the inspection service, which could then take direct action when it finds out; and perhaps to collect the statements of the people who have detected it may carry out a slightly broader procedure. Here I now appeal that some action plan be adopted to ensure that these veterinary services are still doing a little better or more consistently. I don't want to be too critical, but the fact is, there's a lot of things that apply, because people are sufficiently aware, they're out of epilogues, because the inspection doesn't detect a violation. And that's wrong. We're talking about awareness-raising. When people are conscious and report, but nothing happens, of course, it's counter-effects. In the end, perhaps only that, of course, I think it would be necessary to adopt an amendment concerning the sharing of funding between the country and the municipalities, because this is the only fair thing. It is true that it is the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and, on the other hand, individual tasks or programmes under the jurisdiction of municipalities where there is a wider public interest can be determined and thus provided from the State budget. And I think that in the context of financing shelters, where there is still a risk that, in order to be pooled with funds, justified euthanasia of healthy animals will eventually be carried out irrespective of the prohibition. I'm afraid someone might say that this animal is not healthy and that it is for euthanasia because, say, indirectly, this shelter would have no resources. And we both know that there have also been irregularities in certain shelters at the expense of disproportionate numbers of euthanasias. It was dealt with this year. There are dangers here. And I don't think this financial supply is too much a burden for the state to take over. In the end, it's about chain tying up. My personal position is still that it is necessary to prohibit completely, without exception, which you have set out in the law. I fear that this provision will eventually be misused. If nothing else, it was because of the statements we heard when we considered our bill proposal on the committee responsible, when we heard that the animal was just for the farm yard, that there were times missing when they were hunting dogs and cats and so on. There's still a bit of consciousness around here, and I'm going to say, it's backwards, and it shows that the real concerns of these animals are not going to be given. And I don't even think there's a big difference between the countryside and the city. I think a lot of people in the countryside are doing very well and very well with animals. There's some correlation here, but they're doing worse in the countryside. That's not true at all. That's a long way from the truth. And if we lived in another more advanced country, we would be talking today about the fact that the law says that you owe a pet, which is what you have at home, at least an hour to two hours a day to take a walk, but that might be another utopia. This can only be a recommendation. It is my opinion that a better ban would still be a whole transition period than allowing this bottle to be 5 metres long because I fear certain abuses will be. But lastly, let me say that I welcome the proposal of the law, that I am glad that we are considering this today. I think this is a really big step forward. But let's not forget some kind of duality, because we're talking about all animals, not just pets. At least we should talk about all the animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of discussers. Does the Minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much for all these discussions in this second part. I will not repeat myself with regard to funding and with regard to the provisions I have already mentioned. So complement the law with detailed matters. I also agree and thank you for the thought that we can take good care of animals in the countryside, and I absolutely agree with that. But I'd add another thought, so it won't be unheard of. First, the owner is responsible for the abandoned animals, only then the congregation. And after the bill at the end, the state after 120 days. In breeding animals, if found to be actually incorrect breeding, torture, these animals are first tried to sell to another, say a more responsible breeder. If not, of course he's going to the slaughterhouse. Let me add that our ministry, and personally, especially personally, can talk about this, I have zero tolerance for any torture of domestic animals, any kind. And I was just as shocked as you were at the footage that went around months ago and also later, and then immediately ordered the Food Safety Authority to identify the barn where it happened. It took a few days to identify the barn, and then they went into control, and then all of this went on, as you've already learned. I must point out that this may also cause the inspection to react immediately to all applications. But hard, I think you understand that I can't and I don't want to comment on the procedures, even the procedure at sea, because I don't know them and I'm not an inspector and it would be unfair for my colleagues. However, I believe that they react immediately and also react in accordance with the law and also judge in accordance with the law. Surely there is something wrong in practice, I agree, and that is why we are supplementing the law. And I am sure that today's debate here will also help to raise awareness of all animal owners – domestic, breeding, whatever – about whether the Slovenian public or the minister has no tolerance for any kind of torture, mistreatment of any domestic animal. And I think it is right that we keep doing this again and again, and that, as far as this work is concerned, we will implement strict legislation without curves and without any mitigating circumstances. Yes, all animals are sensitive creatures. Maybe just one last thought about a possible euthanasia of a healthy animal that is banned. So far, about 10,000 animals have come to the shelter annually. In recent years, according to our data from the Food Safety Authority, euthanasia has occurred due to lack of space just a few animals per year, not a few percent. A few animals. I think that in almost most years, we can count both hands on our fingers, only in some years maybe by 20. Most executions occur for medical reasons. The fact is that some animals are injured, sick, and so on are also coming to the shelters. In this case, however, for medical reasons, executions took place. But when we talk about healthy animals, I think it's data for 2019, I think I'm right in mind, only 5. Not 5%, but animals. We can be happy that executions are not already being carried out, and we are also grateful to all the shelters to be able to practically find new owners, a new home for most domestic puppies, cats dropping back into the natural environment after sterilization and castration, thus also somehow regulating or restricting the rapid reproduction in this natural environment when we are talking about wild cats. Of course, dogs can't be released into the natural environment, because then dogs can form dog herds and they can be dangerous sometimes. But they always find a new owner. But it is true that in domestic dogs as a rule, because they are chipped, they also find the owner, who is also the bearer of the cost for this animal who has come to some shelter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see only Mr. Doblekar has signed up. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I am very pleased that this law is finally ready, that we have somehow reached consensus together, or that we all agree that these changes are absolutely necessary. These changes were long awaited after many discussions – and, of course, the engagement of Minister Podgorška must also be commended. Not to praise him too much because he himself does not like it too much, but in fact there has been a real agreement and a law on the protection of animals, which will truly be a great welfare for all animals, pets and also breeding animals. I certainly also support this new amendment of the coalition for the use of collars or collars for dogs who are on a greenhouse, because I have read a lot of material online, also spoken to many who are better acquainted with these things than I am. And they think that somehow the dog owner himself can decide which option he chooses. Of course, it also depends on how old the dog is, how old he is, whether large or small, or how strong he is. In short, I support this issue, of course, and it is also right that these options, i.e. these greenhouses in the courtyards mainly of farms, are served by as many dog owners as possible. Of course, the transition period is also welcome so that we can slowly get used to these things. And I believe that these changes will be primarily for the benefit of animals. As far as the shelters are concerned, much has already been said. Even this possibility that up to 30 days of animal costs in the shelter must be taken care of by the congregation, up to 120 days by the owner of the shelter and over 120 days by the state, seems appropriate to me, in particular from this point of view, that there will be no abuse and that it would not be a goal, or that this shelter would not be too full with these animals just to make a profit here. And I think that this solution is in that form. In the end, as we say, it is right for all of us to support this marriage together. And I believe that this law will have a long life, because it is actually written and prepared according to today's trends, it is very modern, if I may say so. And I think he'll be able to live in that form for quite some time. My support is 100 percent, and I hope everyone will stick to it. Perhaps in the end I would mention only the removal of this electric collar, which I think is absolutely necessary, but sometimes I also see some puppies, especially on walks with different collars with lights, lights, different lasers and similar things. I think you should think about an animal here too, so you don't walk down the road like some Christmas tree; I don't think that dog likes it. Sometimes you also see a little overdressed in different outfits, it does have all sorts of things on it; I don't know if it's always appropriate. It is also true that we educate people, both owners of breeding animals and pets, that before they have an animal, before they deal with an animal, they actually live with it, and they have to take care of it, they also know it well, and they know how this animal, if I say so, is served so that the animal will not suffer. That seems very important to me, too. Once again, I'd be happy to support this animal protection law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of public order and peace. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Franc Kangler. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, please speak for the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! You have a second consideration of the amendments and the amendment of the Law on Public Order and Peace. This law is a matter of major changes, where fines from so-called tolars to euro are laid down in particular, and this is a major change. At the same time, the Government has prepared an amendment to the following provisions. Article 5 extends the legitimate reasons for collecting voluntary contributions, particularly for humanitarian and general benefit purposes. We have witnessed many times when civil society decides to help collect voluntary contributions in some cases, and in this way we allow the extension of beneficiaries to be legal and voluntary in accordance with the law. Article 6 adds to the offence of the offender when someone strikes the injured person more than once. This is very important because of the relationship in the existing law. It did not include all forms of violence between persons in a close relationship. Article 8 deals with the consequences of an environmental noise violation, and the police receive an anonymous report of the infringement. And if police officers come to the scene and detect overstepping the noise itself, they act on their own. Article 11 allows for the slaughter of acetilene, so-called carbide, and limits only to Easter holidays and holidays of work, or during celebrations. Then, in Article 27, we extend the powers of municipal officials to control the offence referred to in Article 8 – causing noise and Article 10 – staying in a public place. The substance is also the amendment adopted by the Committee under Article 4, in particular after the first paragraph, which speaks “in a public place” and the second paragraph “may cause excitement and excitement outside the public place”. This amendment, tabled by the coalition, was also adopted on the working body itself. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I also propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. I therefore give the floor to Mr Grimes, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 25th session. 9th and following this meeting 9. 9. Considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace as the parent working body. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Franz Kangler, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, gave an explanation and presented the law as we have heard it today. With regard to the comments that were in the debate, although the law itself was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements, the most comments were made by the opposition Members concerning the amendment of Article 7(2) of the current law, namely that this amendment would mean that the right to express criticism or to freedom of opinion is impaired. On the part of the coalition Members, the answer was that there was no intention of this provision to silence criticism, but that it was intended to limit or prevent the further rise of street violence, noting that the method of street violence in Slovenia is a left-wing fascism, as it happens under the flags of Antife, a red star and other totalitarian symbols, and that all totalitarianism have a common ideological origin in Karl Marx. This is about protecting all people, not just those who perform the official duty, at the time of the official duty, as proposed by the return to the original form of the LMS. But to protect everything, because by the Constitution all citizens and citizens have the right to live safely, the right that no one is exposed to street violence; and this amendment is intended for this. The amendment was then finally adopted, and the whole text of the law, which we are considering today and which we are putting into adoption, has also been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Blaž Pavlin gets the word. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u86	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! The proposal for amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which we are considering today, has been proposed by the Government to the Assembly, following a regular procedure. The basic tasks of the police as a result of their fundamental duties are to maintain public order and peace and to prevent, detect and investigate violations. This includes ensuring the security of individuals and communities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and strengthening the rule of law. The existing law has only been completed once since July 2006. The most important supplement was the incrimination of the activities of individuals or organised groups who do not have a basis in the law, these are so-called guards. Since the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, fines for offences are still in Slovenian Tolars, which is an additional delay in conducting criminal proceedings and increasing the risk of misappropriation of fines. Therefore, all the fines still mentioned in the law in the tolars are explicitly stated in euro. In addition to the above-mentioned aims of the law, the proposal for amendments underlines another additional purpose, namely to protect against interference with the powers of state authorities without a legal basis. It is proposed to extend the set of justified reasons for collecting voluntary contributions, including in the case of illness or injury, to specify what is considered humanitarian and what is of general benefit. Voluntary contributions are prohibited in a way that disturbs peace, causes excitement or harassment. In the current arrangement, the person who is being beaten or the person who is being struck shall be engulfed. In the description of the offence, the situation is also added when a person is repeatedly struck. It is set at a depth of between 500 and 500 euros. Since the existing law on violence between persons in the immediate relationship does not provide for all relations, it is proposed to establish even more precisely the relative or other relationship between the offender and the injured party. The proposal regulates that an offence of noise is committed, even if it is a noise which cannot be expected from its intensity, frequency and duration, disturbs peace or rest and does not result from the activity allowed. In addition, it is provided that the offence is committed even if the police officer personally detects the noise on the spot on the basis of the application. It is also proposed to prohibit shooting outside the firing range if this is not permitted by regulations. In the case of a violation of the promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance, the list of personal circumstances shall be updated. It is proposed to further define the worse form of a violation of the public display of sexual organs in certain places with a higher fine. At the end of the discussion, I would also touch on the article of the law which is most public. In recent times, dear colleagues and colleagues have increasingly developed extremes, calls for exclusion, hostility, and even attacks on organisations and individuals. We drew attention to all these developments in Novi Slovenija, together with co-signors, at the beginning of this year with a joint meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Justice. We drew attention to hostile debates in this hall and to the fear that hatred can spread to our streets. And that is exactly what we have witnessed in the last month – grumbling, attacks on citizens of various political beliefs, incursions on RTV Slovenia, violent protests last week. All state authorities in all branches of government have an obligation, an obligation to respond to such phenomena in our society in accordance with our powers. That is why in the coalition's parliamentary groups we have proposed an amendment aimed at limiting the increasing frequency of primitiveism, insult and harassment of public officials, journalists and all citizens. It is our job to keep a close eye on society and on negative hostile phenomena in a timely and effective manner. In view of all the above, we will support the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Dušan Verbich. He will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State and the others present, very nice greeting! Today, we are deciding on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, whose aim is to ensure a more precise regime and secure protection of this area, with a view to realizing the individual's right to security and dignity as fundamental human values and constitutional rights. The aim is also to ensure the effective implementation of the duties and duties of the police or the conduct of criminal proceedings directly linked to ensuring the security of individuals and communities. With a view to improving the protection of public order and peace and the performance of the duties and duties of the police and the related management of infringements related to the provision of public security, the following changes and additions are introduced. The purpose of collecting voluntary contributions is defined in detail for a humanitarian and general purpose. In addition, the offence of an offender who strikes the injured person repeatedly and not only once is specified and the related or other relationship between the offender and the injured person is determined more precisely. An offence committed by noise shall be determined if it is a noise which cannot be expected, depending on its intensity, frequency and duration, and thus impedes the peace and rest of the people and is not a consequence of the activity permitted. Cuts with acetylene or other gas mixtures shall be allowed for mining only during Easter holidays and holidays of work or during celebrations determined by the local community by its regulations. Additional powers shall also be conferred on municipal officials to control the offences committed. However, it has raised little dust on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which in its final form gives the possibility of criminal proceedings in the event of misconduct in public against each individual or group. Verbal and physical attacks have recently become a part of everyday life, which we will never be able to understand as self-evident in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Controversy, shouting and indecency, causing excitement, excitement or jeopardising an individual or a group and thereby damaging his or her reputation, are a worse form of wrongdoing. And it is also right that they are adequately sanctioned. There's no exception to that. Just as much as we support the proposed solution, we also support the debate on the culture of dialogue that opens up in doing so, because we do not want the idea of a respectful and inclusive society to remain just a dead letter on paper. The fact is that it is the duty of the State to ensure an adequate level of public order as the foundation of democratic social value. This is also followed by changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which is why we will also support this bill in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u90	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The New Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is once again one of those who has triggered a violent response in public. Clearly, the government of Janez Janša will not let us down until its term of office, as far as the proposed laws are concerned. The most dust was added to the proposal of the law, which also disturbed us in the SAB. With him, the coalition tried to add a qualified form of misconduct. They proposed a fine of between 500 and thousands of euros for misconduct against politicians or officials and their neighbors if such conduct were detected by authorized persons or police officers at the very site of the infringement. In practice, this would mean that only ordinary citizens would be more severely punished for misconduct and officials could afford such behaviour. This would create two categories of citizens, which is not in line with our legal order. In addition, the provision in question was written vaguely as it did not provide for a specific definition of which situations would be further covered after the new one. Such an amendment is unnecessary because the law already provides for adequate protection of the injured person in such cases. Then we can conclude that it is exclusively the intimidation of citizens with higher fines. In this way, the government would empower police officers, who in every way attempt to subdue them, to voluntarily punish individuals who would express their disagreements with the ruling policy a little louder. In this way, the government would try to silence civil society, criticisms that have been heard in the streets for a year and a half and are becoming louder. On the other hand, according to their statements and online publications, government representatives can obviously afford anything. The frightening effect has also been repeatedly pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights, which says that democracy is particularly dangerous in cases of political speech of public interest. Because of the public’s violent response, the coalition then amended the provision that provided for higher fines only to offend officials. They now wish to punish the misconduct of all citizens on condition that such conduct is detected by an authorised official at the site of the infringement. In the SAB, we do not agree to this provision either, because it is only a slightly alternate text, which essentially preserves the same purpose. We do not imagine how a police officer in the city will judge whether, in a particular case, it is demeaning behavior that can cause distress to an individual or group. Such a proposal was also made by legal experts. They point out that the content of the new offence is indeterminate and as such would not have passed the constitutional judgment. Nevertheless, the government is more than likely to heed the warnings mentioned above and will insist on its agenda. The legislative procedure has already introduced a proposal for amendments to the Penal Code, according to which cases of threats against officials and their neighbours would be dealt with on a new basis under official duty and not on the proposal of the injured party. Let me point out here that in the SAB we do not approve of any unworthy conduct, and this should be directed at anyone. However, Slovenian legislation already covers such cases and no changes are necessary. In the SAB, we will therefore support the amendment to Article 4, which brings the provision back to its original form. But we're not going to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Robert Polnar, who will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace was adopted in 2006 and, from then to now, in 15 years, it has been supplemented only once. One year ago, we adopted a ban on the wearing of weapons, masks and uniforms and a ban on conduct that makes it appear that an individual or a group carries out the tasks of officials or military personnel. With this addition, new offences have been identified in order to ensure more effective protection of public order and peace and to ensure the effective exercise of the powers and duties of the police. The weakness of the current law is that fines for offences are fixed in Slovenian tolars, not in euros. After fourteen years, since Slovenia took over the euro as a national currency, this may have to be regulated. Therefore, the main changes introduced by the amendment to the law are aimed at converting the value of fines from tolars to euros. The substantive changes introduced by the bill include, inter alia, an expansion of the set of eligible reasons for collecting voluntary contributions, including in the case of illness or physical injury. It also sets out the purpose of collecting voluntary contributions for a humanitarian and general purpose. However, as regards the collection of these contributions, there is a ban on disturbing peace, causing excitement and harassing people. The law also introduces changes to the noise-related offence and a precise definition of the period allowed for cracking with acetylene or other gas mixtures for mining. The modern theoretical base of the concept of the State is contained in the definition of the country as a monopoly on the legitimate use of force. In modern countries, the right of the State and its authorities to use force is regulated by law. Repression is a legal possibility for the State and its authorities to use the means of coercion to maintain regulation and general order. This legal option cannot, under any circumstances, go into the hands of spontaneously organised groups of citizens. In the epidemiological reality we live in, it is possible to live if there is hope when citizens see that the country is on the right track and is professionally managed. Some believe that this is not the case in the Slovenian case. Part of citizens and citizens rejects the fact that the state's response to the epidemic and its consequences are all correct and successful. Of course, they themselves would know this much better and state incompetence by taking their will and mentally killing to the point that it is necessary to organise themselves and to demonstrate an infinite degree of aggression. Functional democracy is never spontaneous, it's always controlled. It has certain frameworks and limitations, so the country has to react. The trend described above cannot be expected to dissipate from itself because it is ignored or not attributed to it. The amendment, which would introduce a provision in the legislative text to sanction, inter alia, the misconduct of an official in the official business or of the highest representatives of the State, and to detect such conduct by an authorised official of the criminal authority at the place of execution, in such circumstances it was understandable to have a reaction at the paroxysm border, the highest level of irritability. Following an updated proposal for a law on the home committee, this provision has been adjusted so that, from now on, there will also be a sanction for public contention and shouting, as well as a lack of dignity towards an individual or a group. It is therefore a matter of protecting the allege, not just the individual predetermined limbs of society. Members of the Desus Group have various views on the issue. In line with this diversity, we will also vote on the proposal for legislative amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u94	In May this year, the government forwarded the amendment to the National Assembly of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, for which we in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in view of the initial solutions proposed, assessed that it should be supported, as the changes broaden the set of legitimate reasons for collecting voluntary contributions in the event of disease or injury. You all probably remember the story of 19-month-old Chris, born with a rare genetic disease – type 1 spinal muscular atrophy, which took more than 2 million euros to treat a revolutionary drug that was not available in the European Union. In addition, the novelty of the law limits corruption with carbide, which we all know can be very noisy and, ultimately, dangerous. It also contains a new noise offence, which is not due to permitted activity. And a few others, according to our assessment of meaningful, supplementation, such as punishing a perpetrator who has repeatedly physically struck someone and so on. The government would also grant additional powers by means of an amendment to the municipal editor, including control of noise-prone offences, public accommodation and voluntary contributions. But the key solution in this law is to change the fines from tolars to euros. Such a new novel was almost not commented on, nor by the professional public, except for the King's Street, which warned that the offence of staying in a public place would also be punished by homeless people who, objectively speaking, cannot be prevented from committing an offence. Just before the present, or after August, all the known events in Kredarica, the coalition's parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment at the parent's working body meeting to introduce a new qualified form of misconduct against the highest representatives of the country and their neighbours, for which a higher fine is also envisaged, as the law now provides for unworthy conduct. Although it was an amendment of Members to which the government has given its consent, we can claim, on the basis of experience in this coalition, that the proposed solution is the assassination of the Minister of the Interior. And that the amendment must have been the result of the parliamentary harassment of the recent adoption of the Law on Infectious Diseases, as well as the meetings of the Prime Minister of the Kredarica Government. We cannot support such a proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Especially since these changes are due to the fact that the ruling coalition has been apprehensive of the strong response of the professional public, which it has assessed both solutions to be legally unacceptable, as well as to the rest of the public, which has only seen the division into first- and second-class citizens, which is, however, the party's eternal light motive and the attempt to silence the criticisms of the government's actions or individual members of the government, who are impatient and who characterise the lie policy. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are convinced that the responsibility for establishing a space of cultural and democratic dialogue, where no one will be harassed, spitting, grappling and insulting others, is raised above each other and where other thinkers will not be mortal enemies, we all bear – both politicians and citizens of this country. The harassment, spitting and insult of Members is just as undignified and unjustifiable as the indecisive communication of some government members and other politicians on both sides of the political sex, in the coalition and also in the opposition. Nevertheless, we note that misconduct is properly regulated in the law in force and that there is no need for it to change according to the wishes and ambitions of the Minister of Home Affairs. As a result of the attack on the New Slovenia MP, the police carried out a criminal proceeding against two perpetrators in connection with the amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases due to a violation of the law in force. In Kredarica, too, the police detected the suspicion of a misbehavior, but they did not initiate a criminal procedure, as no one reported to the police that because of the misconduct of others there he felt upset, upset or threatened. Nobody did it. Absurd in itself is the next. The government is playing the role of citizens because they do not follow its advice and instructions, but at the same time, they do themselves on the rules of the game of revitalising. And as long as the epicenter of Slovenian politics succeeds those actors whose modus operandi is based on the cultivation and deepening of fragmentation and on pearls and pigs, there will be no further step. But that knowledge is, after all, precious.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u96	Nice hello to you all! The proposal of the novel shall be dealt with in 25 of the 30 articles of the marriage text. Already on the Home Working Committee, everything revolved around the disputed addition of coalition members to Article 4, as if the remaining 24 did not exist at all, which is quite biased. The amendment is a living proof that there will now be no double criteria for first- and second-class citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are all equal before the law without discrimination. The time of the epidemic and recent successive events have shown us that some hope too much to do, which is not good, since everyone is already condemning, insulting, even through social media, followed by appropriate fines or penalties. If there is no hierarchy at the moment, there is no respect for authority and talent, it seems incomprehensible to us in the Slovenian National Party. We are appalled by the fact that the verbal and physical attacks on us Members elected from the people are getting worse and worse, which needs to be plagued in the Cali without a coup d'état. Maybe someone wants to. No one in our democratic country shall be attacked, robbed, vilified, heard about the threat of death, whether it be our Members and our family members or our citizens, for everyone has the right to personal dignity and security under Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As for anonymous reports, noise in the nighttime, it is mostly caused by Roma at any of their joys or celebrations. We see a problem in the Slovenian National Party because the victims or the neighbours do not want to participate in the infringement procedure because they are afraid of various threats and retaliations by them. There have been reports of too many frauds happening in the streets, and we still dream that we're safe. Apparently, so long as it doesn't happen to someone important enough. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that more fines should be increased for an infringement of writing by object, because it is unacceptable to write, to draw on walls, fences and other publicly accessible places, except for exceptions of course. It is also for the destruction of state symbols, because those with their heads bent on the public place will not intentionally burn or damage, destroy the flag or coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, the flag of the EU or the flag of another country. There is a need for a fair deepening of members who, by notification of violations of public order, cause police intervention. We have doubts about the supervision of the implementation of certain provisions of this law, as many municipal editors do not carry out their duties at night. The problem is also the availability of personnel. Many are without knowledge, qualifications that are far from the competence of our officers. In summary, the amendment of the law should be fully amended, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also warned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u98	A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives everyone, every citizen, every citizen, everyone who resides here, the right to live in security, the right to personal integrity and security. In Slovenia, unfortunately, because of the work of the policy that encouraged riots for a year and a half, more than a year, this system began to break down. We have come to a period of street violence, which unfortunately is not only characteristic of Slovenia, but of the whole world, because it is a method that leftist parties and groups use practically around the world, you can see it from Germany, America, Italy. Wherever in the modern world there are attempts by leftists to take power, street violence occurs. And the method of street violence is left-handed fascism. This needs to be made very clear. It flows under the red bonds, with the Antifa flags, just below the sheath of totalitarian symbols that you make up. All history also makes it clear that all totalitarianism really has its essence, its core, its origin in Karl Marx, who wrote that the nations must less develop, where it also counted Slavic, to disappear into the revolutionary holocaust; and it was the first to use the word holocaust. So he was a racist. And those who shout the most about racism celebrate the racist. It's a very fun thing. Unfortunately, the position of a citizen and a citizen is less entertaining when he walks down the street and he is harassed, harassed, subjected to psychological, physical violence, using methods and means that no one can say that they have any space — and they must not — in the modern world. This is guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution, which must also be guaranteed by Slovenian legislation. The law that stands before us governs a number of areas. It regulates the collection of voluntary contributions, regulates certain noise-related matters, and then also the powers of municipal editors and other matters. Above all, it modernises legislation by aligning it with modern concepts and, of course, with the currency that is now official in Slovenia. From this point of view, the law deserves all the support. However, the special quality of the law was added at a meeting of the Committee with an amendment to protect citizens and citizens from left-wing fascism, which further protects against street violence. And it's very interesting to know how many people and how many political parties this goes into their noses. Of course, who started this whole story? Who encouraged street violence for a year and a half, so that the matter was already partially out of hand with them? Look who took the photos of those first violations of public order and peace. And don't say they were quiet back then. They even threw objects at me, and two even threw granite cubes at me once. And the cops were around. You think someone reacted? This was not possible until today, after a normal conversation occurred to those who set the matter on fire. You couldn't even talk about it before. I told you, I reported it. Do you think something happened to anyone? Give me a break. So much for that. And this is about this, not about protecting politics, not about obstructing criticism, as even some say. This law in no way, but in no way does it speak of the right to criticize anyone, the right to express public opinion. He's talking only about violence and he's being targeted at street violence. And that's his special quality, because we're witnesses to it. Every day is worse, everyone knows what happened a few days ago, and we need to act. If it doesn't work out differently, we all know what's at stake in the real ultimatums, it's called tightening the legislation. And people deserve it. People have the right to live safe. Our duty, not just justice, is to ensure that people live safely. Everyone has the right to personal integrity, everyone has the right to security. And no one else's right can be over that right. As a result, this law makes sense, which is why this law is necessary, and that is why we will unanimously support this law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! This second consideration of the novels of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace today is a very beautiful reflection of the functioning of the minority coalition. First of all, they wanted to glean thousands of euros to anyone who could potentially excite government representatives and other officials. This intention was very unfortunately tried to justify by the events we Members experienced in July when the controversial novels of the Law on Infectious Diseases were considered. However, if we look at the timing of the adoption of the novel and the controversial article that raises monetary penalties, it is very obvious that such a change is behind. The law came to the National Assembly on 17 May, of course without a disputed article imposing thousands of euros in fines. In mid-July, there were attacks on us Members. The government does nothing; there was, of course, no disputed article in the law at the time. At the end of August, the President of the Government experiences an event in Kredarica and, look at the fraction, on September 1st, we have a proposal from the Government to amend this disputed article, where the Government proposes thousands of euros in fines for anyone who would only potentially upset government representatives and other public officials. In its intention, the government could not have been more obvious; in order to protect the government from criticism, it proposed a new repressive measure. That the situation was even more absurd, however, we could see how the current minority coalition in the National Assembly was still alive when we considered this novel on the committee. Let me remind you. When Mr Šiško announced just before the vote that he would not support the law and, as a result, there was one vote missing for the approval of the amendment, the chairman of the committee, Mr Grims, suspended the hearing, and we continued the meeting of the committee on another day, when another SNS member was present at the committee meeting. If we put a joke aside, the functioning of a coalition minority could not have been more obvious in providing votes. We are saddened by the fact that, instead of dealing with content that is nationalally and socially beneficial, under this government, we continue to deal with new and new repressive provisions that in our country cause resentment and opposition to professions, but among citizens dissatisfaction, anger, intolerance and, unfortunately, aggression. On the other hand, we are surprised to learn that some of the government's proposals are falling because they are being broken by the coalition itself and that other government proposals survive only because of the opportunism of some Members. This is certainly not right for our country and our citizens. Just as the proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is not right. Therefore, in the LMŠ Group, if our amendment to delete the disputed article is not adopted, we will oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u102	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The basic objective of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace would probably be acceptable by all Members and Members, not least to the general public. The proposal states that the situation in the field of public order and peace is more precisely regulated, and consequently to ensure the secure protection of public order and peace with a view to the realization of the individual's right to security and dignity than the fundamental human values and constitutional rights set out in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. While we support the social democrats' basic purpose in law, in addition to the unification of fines that change from tolars to euro, and in some other solutions, for example, Article 24 concerning police seizure of items linked to the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, namely, ZJRM-1A. Let me remind you that exactly one year ago, September 2020, when the Government addressed and adopted the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, the novel ZJRM-1A, when the content of the Act was focused on the regulation of the operation of paramilitary groups or groups wishing to take over the monopoly of coercion, stated that it would be necessary in this law to change the fines from tolars to euro, which has not happened since 2007. Moreover, the Government's representative announced the Government's preference that certain changes in the operation of paramilitary groups are necessary, but matters need to be addressed more carefully and not just part of the problem. This part of the more thoughtful legal arrangements, we will remind you, the well-respected government, of it. In short, for about a year we were waiting for a government law in the field of public order and peace, which we could in principle support, but the government with coalition MPs and Members came to the National Assembly with an amendment to Article 7. This has, of course, upset the professional public and the wider public interest of individuals and individuals in our country. The new amendment of the coalition followed, which further obscured the clarity of the provisions of Article 7 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which has so far been understandable and clear. But more about this content at the time of the amendment tabled by the opposition parliamentary groups. We agree with the Social Democrats, and it is also the duty of the State to ensure an adequate level of public order, which ultimately comes from the tasks of the police. The tasks of the police have so far been clear and, consequently, means that effective performance of these tasks and, of course, clear and unequivocal legislation ensures the implementation of the duties and duties of the police and the conduct of criminal proceedings directly linked to the security of individuals and communities. But after the possible adoption of these disputes, it will no longer be so determined. The Social Democrats will be supported by the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups, but support for the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace depends, of course, on the vote on the opposition amendment mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Good-bye! It's another one in a series of repressive laws. At the time of the government, Janez Janša seems to be considering only proposals to increase repression, strengthen the police state and reduce fundamental human rights. In front of us is the law, which in the context of the conversion of fines from tolars increases all fines for purely all offences. Of course, the increase in fines for those who can't settle already low fines is also serious; even worse, because of their living circumstances, they can't avoid it at all. Homeless people are forced to stay outdoors because of lack of dignity, security, and permanent accommodation. By further punishing these persons, they are criminalized and placed in an even more vulnerable position. Since the proposal also extends the powers of the editors, there will be even more of these penalties after changes to the law, and thus more hardships for the homeless. The proposal also legitimizes the possibility of imposing higher fines than those prescribed in the rapid procedure. At present, this is possible only in the case of two offences, and the change will always be possible. Municipal officials and police officers will have the opportunity to impose a higher fine than the minimum prescribed in a rapid procedure. Another unjustified increase in repression more. We know that the tendency to be repressive is something quite everyday for repressive organs. That is why the legislation of the repressive authorities must consistently restrict it to a set of safeguards, rules, prohibitions and guidelines. In this case, however, the law goes away from this, in the wrong direction; and that is why we strongly oppose him in this part of Levi. This is a few of the particularly controversial points of the bill's proposal, and only a few speeches were made in the public and the media, as it proclaimed the amendment of the coalition to silence the critics of John Janša, which is not yet the only reason why this law should be rejected, but is certainly the most unworthy, unacceptable and rude. With the amendments, the coalition, with the support of the government, added an additional measure to improve the protection of its beloved leader and political class as a whole – a special fine for anyone who dares to criticise power. If grappling with pigs and sloths is obviously a purely worthy level of communication of the minister, it is necessary to provide a penalty for anyone who can answer him and thereby harm his feelings. In fact, you introduce what you like to hide with your hands in the SDS party as you quote Article 133 of the Penal Code of the former Yugoslavia. Now you are instituting a verbal delict. But clearly, to be criticized by pigs and sloths, that's not possible, it's to be punished with a thousand Euros. And if that doesn't work, it's clear that you're already preparing a change to the Penal Code, which will send any verbal offenders of returnees directly into custody. This proposal of yours goes beyond what is likely to be a direct and brutal attack on democracy, on the constitutional right of expression, which includes criticism of authority, whether you like it or not; even more, which includes sharp criticism of authority. The adoption of an amendment on the committee, which is now intended to set the same offence for everyone and not only for those who dare to oppose any minister or Member, is a mere larifari, in fact a mockery from all of us. Tell me, who is usually accompanied by the police — a common mortal or a political elite. It is clear as a white day, with your confused and vague record, where it is not clear what will or will not work with it in practice, the law will allow the punishment of anyone who dares to oppose, challenge or yell at politics. What if someone defied verbal exhibitions, like you often do, and so would Minister Hojs. We will support the amendment of the opposition parties in Levika, and we strongly oppose the bill because of all the above. If the National Assembly approves the proposal for a law, we are predicting in Levica a reflection on the constitutional judgment or other measures to prevent the law from being enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. First he gets the word Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. In an already heated political atmosphere, as we have heard from the descriptions of the positions of the parliamentary groups, the excitement among people, as has been mentioned many times, not only in politics, but among people in general, you are putting further tension into such an atmosphere with this amendment to the law. It is difficult to get rid of the feeling that a coalition of dissidents has been formed to make public criticism of authority. And what you want to introduce, we can't call it anything other than the introduction of a verbal delinquency. There is so much similarity with infamous article 133 or with the aim of simply getting rid of that feeling. You can name it and deny it in any way, but the prohibition or sanctioning of public criticism of power is nothing more than the imposition of a verbal delinquency. And you do this under the pretext of preventing street violence; which is not true, which is not at all true. In order to prevent street violence in this country, we have every legal basis, every legal basis. This novel will not help you to prevent this. And if it does, God forbid, it won't be any less because of this novelty of marriage. No less. What, in fact, do you write in this proposal, which you say will finally insure an ally who will be subjected in any way to contention, shouting or unworthy conduct? Slehernik. That's not true either, of course not. And here too, of course, is now about protecting the political elite. What did you write down? Anyone arguing, shouting or misbehaving may cause or damage to the reputation of an individual or group by such conduct. And such behaviour — beware now — such conduct is personally perceived by an authorised official of the criminal authority at the scene of the infringement. Now, you tell me where all these officials are now to detect violations when it comes to endangering the neighborhood, you say. If the neighbors argue, yell and behave indecently because of the living limit, will an official be authorised to detect it at the site of the infringement? Of course not. And there's not going to be a lot of other places. Where will the official be authorised? Where criticism of this authority can be expected to be made publicly. These are various protests, assemblies, or public criticisms of authority; there will be an official empowered. And now you're ordering a police officer to measure or judge now when someone is upset – that's probably 500 euros – when he's upset – that's probably for the jury, according to this proposal. And that's what the police will find out on the spot. What prevention of street violence is one of them?Oh, my God! It is the drastic punishment of people for saying the wrong words. That's the point of this novel. That's the point of this novel. And what are the wrong words, the wrong words? We are now in a situation where, in a democratic society, the authorities want to submit to themselves a word spoken or written and they want to make their idea of what is allowed and what is not. And that's what we need to worry about. Therefore, it has itself offered a comparison with the infamous 133rd Article of the previous regime and the current amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. With this, this government simply wants to intimidate and silence the criticisms of power. That's the point. That's the point. Ironically, however, it is ironic that in the second half of the 1980s, for example, the current President of the Government wrote down the criticisms of daily politics and decisions that have been made as enemies of the country. He wrote it down, whipping the contents of the infamous Article 133. But today, the same John Janša, president of the government, critics of daily politics and missed decisions, declares them enemies of the state. He does it every day, every day. Any criticism that goes into the trenches of any decision taken by this government is declared hatred of the state. So state, that's me. And from here to the drastic punishment of such criticisms, we are now separated from the adoption of this amendment to Article 7. And the authority that doesn't bring criticism will do anything to crush it, but it doesn't define what the wrong word is. It does not define what is the wrong word; it associates itself with the right to judge each time the nature of its inadmissibility and, of course, the degree of excitement and excitement. But it is the authority that stirs up and stirs up the common mortal with its actions and with its decisions and with its relationship that it then criticizes him so that he may express his disagreement. And a public official should be able to bear this criticism, even if it is so unpleasant to him. This public official went to work as a human being. He's at work. People are his employers, and now these employers can't tell him in person if he's breaking it. They can't tell him. The most ironic thing about this is that Interior Minister Hojs is most surprised by the excitement of the citizens, but with his disapproval of all those who are unwilling to do so, he says that this law is a contribution to a different attitude and culture in society. That's what the Home Secretary says. It's about like the one who lit it, and now he's gonna help put it out. And what exactly is unworthy conduct, what is shouting and excitement? These are subjective categories. So also an official who will now have to determine the level of excitement or anything, any emotion, will be caused by someone, of course, an official will have problems. If it is subjective, then the decision may be completely and diametrically contrary to the decision of an official in another place, other persons elsewhere. But the authorities will judge what is inappropriate behavior. Under this law, which we believe in the LMŠ can't go through the parliamentary system, even though he has had a strange debate with some kind of manoeuvre on the internal policy committee. In this law is the fact that this government fears its own people, that this government fears its own people. And it's a repressive measure and it's a restriction on freedom of speech. And that's all there is to it. That's all there is to it. Of course, spitting, grappling is unworthy and unacceptable, absolutely unworthy and unacceptable, whether the victim is a Member, an official or, as you say, an all-person in this society, totally unacceptable. But now look at what happened after that Wednesday, 7 July this year, when this hunt for MPs took place around Parliament. What happened? Nothing happened. Nothing happened. Has the government rushed and brought to Parliament amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace? She didn't hurry. There was some talk about condemning it, and of course we can all agree that this is absolutely unacceptable and unworthy; but nothing happened. And then the Kredary happened, and that's what happened. And the pawnshop happened. And until John Janša had one rare encounter with the citizens, not under the tent of the same-minded, but in the open, in the hills, and then it happened, and then it had to be rushed with the novelty of the law. And whoever saw those famous videos from Kredarica could have found out that the Prime Minister actually insulted the government. That the Prime Minister regretted it. And anyway, for him, all of us who think otherwise are mature for psychiatry. And then we had to write this famous amendment. And that, as Marjan Sarec would say, from Space Shuttle, it was the defense of the character and the work of Janez Janša in this amendment, and that the hunt for MPs around Parliament came, but there was a good excuse for that. Of course, this novel of law does not say anything about any other disturbing and upsetting people, officials and people in the virtual world, for example, on Twitter. This orchestrated insult and reproach on Twitter by the most visible representatives of this authority may not be a scream, but it is excruciating. And it's also an unworthy behavior, it's also an unworthy behavior. So there was once a Article 133, which was a member of the defense of the character and work of Joseph Broz Titus. We are now in democratic order after thirty years, the jokes for the jury are gone, at least they should not be; but in this amendment of the law as if we were waking up at some time decades ago. It is a simple scrupulous rounding of government positions and the silence of other thinkers. If this government's policy is based on insulting and insulting people, it expects that there will be no reaction to these same people, and that its insult and dissension is not sanctioned; but when people come forward and say their own things, it will be sanctioned. This is actually the essence of this novel law, and there is a lot of masking in there, but of course it does not express the country's concern for the next person in this country. Absolutely not. Therefore, in the LMŠ we propose an amendment in which this disputed provision is deleted from the draft law. And, of course, we expect that we will receive adequate support for this amendment, because it would be really unworthy for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the democratic order in which we live, to adopt a new law that introduces verbal delinquency to a large door in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Franz Kangler, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of the National Assembly, honourable Members! I've already ruled out all of your allegations that you've made here again today. You're talking about public criticism, that's the problem. Is it a public criticism for you to spit on people, to take us for a fascist? Is that a critique? And for me, personally, for a lot of people in this country, if you spit on someone, or if you match them with a fascist, that's not public criticism. If the minister here criticizes someone for being a party to Trumpettengold, it's not an insulting word to me, it's a public criticism. But if someone says back to him that he's a fascist because of that, even though my grandfather was in partisans, he's an unworthy person. And if you think or some Members that it is a verbal delicacy, that someone is hitting on a fellow Member, that someone is spitting, because he has performed a beloved function in the National Assembly, that this is an intervention in freedom of speech, then you are deceiving the entire Slovenian public. That's not true. That's unacceptable. This isn't about MPs. Whether a police officer who stopped someone because of the procedure is allowed to spit later or insult him or his home; or perhaps a market inspector or a construction inspector. And you're deceiving people. Really. You're saying that this government is afraid of its own people. You said – Janez Janša rarely meets citizens, but he met on Kredarica. Or do you not follow the events as many as Janez Janša is among the people, but it is not a week not to visit any region, Styria, Prekmurje [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I, Chairman? I know it's painful for some of the lions, but that's the truth. The pawn shop with this law has absolutely nothing to do with it, as you state. I have explained to you on the committee — you and your colleague — that this provision has been added to Article 4 concerning the second paragraph at the request of the Police. That's what the cops wanted. What's the problem with a cop finding a violation himself? But a cop doesn't notice the breach himself when he stops you, but either you blow too much or you don't blow anything? A police officer has the right to deepen you, or he has the right to commit certain offences to give you a warning. And you have said the next word – the policy of this government is based on insulting and insulting people. Sorry, the policy of this government is to take care of every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's what I told you on the home work committee, and I'm going to say it again. You, some who have run the government in the past, have left Slovenian citizens stranded before the epidemic; and it hurts you. But your Prime Minister, or your client, threw a rifle into the corn. And today you're speaking a completely different diction than we are at this point in time. And not to deceive the Slovenian people. I think I should be here in Parliament, sitting here for 11 years, telling the truth. Freedom of expression, however, applies. You can also tell the truth, but this is the nature of a particular policy. Once again, the policy of this government is to take care of every citizen – from the successful Presidency of the European Union to economic growth – to the promotion of tourism, to the economy with measures. I know that some measures are not best for all citizens, but they are for the majority to overcome this crisis, an epidemic in which only a coalition has not been found, and we are all in this together. I would rather expect a serious and responsible policy and a former minister to co-create policy in this national assembly, so that we will all be more successful together. Soon the elections will have to be measured as to what is valid, if any. I can honestly say this, I've been to the elections many times, one way or another. And that's what people say on that day. However, in order for someone to incite or speak publicly, I must firmly deny it on behalf of the government. Once again, remember, this government works for every citizen, this government works for every citizen and will work for every citizen by the end of the term. However, spitting, grumbling in this way or running into people who do not have time to cycle at undeclared meetings is unacceptable because they have to work at home because they have to take care of their livestock so that all Slovenians can be satisfied, not hungry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica, Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for the instructions on how to act and behave in politics. But I don't know why you're actually having an argument with me, why. Because I have this vision, so I see the functioning of this government, and of course I've shown it through this amendment of the law that you brought into the National Assembly. That's how I see it. I'm not the only one. Of course, I can't expect you to attract me, but after a half-second year, I think we could do more than just keep picking up the gun to the corn. And now we can do more than that. The only thing we agree on, however, is unworthy, absolutely unworthy spitting, falling into man and so on and so forth. But you can't stop it by this law, because you won't stop it by this law because you're talking about a doormat. It's about the Slehennik, that is, every citizen of this country, and in fact, this law is exclusively about the defence of politics, especially political elites. And I repeat this once again, and I will repeat this indefinitely, that this novel law brings absolutely nothing but a silence to the public criticism of this government. That's the point of this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u112	Good-bye! Thank you so much for saying that. It is interesting how the agenda items follow today. Before this point there was a point on the Animal Protection Act. What did the discussers agree? You agreed to treat animals with dignity. At this point in the agenda, we are talking about the dignity between us, respectable, about the dignity between us politicians, about the dignity between individual citizens, and in particular between groups of citizens, because we find that, given that freedom of association and everything in terms of democracy, people of different interests share and want to express it. We are talking about Article 4 of the amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace, an amendment that is supposed to end what this coalition adopted on the Committee with 10 votes in favour and 8 against. Point to what? That in the Republic of Slovenia with 500 to 1,000 euros is punished by someone who disputes in public or who mistreats an individual or a group and thus upsets, upsets and threatens. Some of you see this as an infamous 133rd article of the former law in the former republic. You know what I'm gonna say, and I'm sure that's true. If this was this article, if we were to compare this undignified behaviour and criticism with the previous regime, then our famous protestor would not even have come to the first week of protest, because he would have already been a member of the State Security Service at the restaurant or where he would have joined with his peers, he would have found that he would be carrying out certain protests against the state authorities; and then he would have been imprisoned for it. And we're talking about dignity, about dignity between us, which has fallen a lot lately. How long is Parliament in the Republic of Slovenia? You didn't need an ethical code before this term. We had to adopt it in this House. Why? Because words — lies, thefts, accusations — flew all on average. But when we talk about the causes of a certain party president, when were the slogans of death in this country already on the scene, if I may use that term? Long before the election was even in this lineup. Long before, some have expressed their criticism in a questionable way to this government before the government came into existence. And then saying that the cause of one incident on Triglav, that's, in short, instigating and lying. Thus, ever since this country’s momentum has been shown, this Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been driven by Janez Janša, there have been sharp criticisms and rallies and protests that contain words, threats. And nothing happened to those changes now. Too late, too late. We must tell the citizens of this Republic and explain to them and to us, among ourselves, what opposition means, what expression of democratic will means, what violence is and what is not acceptable. I'm going back to the last point. For one Member, it is unacceptable for a dog to be absent from the shadows for 10 hours. What is unacceptable to this country? To accuse one another with words that have the weight of the Penal Code, that citizens spit at us, that they threaten us, even me, at home, anyone can know where I am at home, because the electoral directories are public, that is no problem. But they hurt your property because you belong to a certain party in a democratic system like your colleagues, which is unacceptable. And how will it be determined? There's a lot going on between us, unfortunately. Also to state authorities, including many criminal cases, unfortunately, criminal matters happen and cannot be prevented, even tragic. But what we can prevent from this debate is our agreement that in the Republic of Slovenia unworthy conduct is sanctioned, whether in the following articles or in the second paragraph. Measurement, threat — all of this can be punished, can be punished. Since all laws, all penalties should also be designed primarily to prevent them. Why is the height and the point set for a traffic offence? To prevent us from doing this in the first place. Now we are arguing – no, no, if an official is insulted in an official procedure, this is considered to be acceptable if an official is working after the ZUP, for example, officials on certain, including a police officer; however, if a policy or others not covered by this article are not allowed. [[…]] No, it is not permissible to measure, threaten an official, not allow to measure, threaten a neighbor, and not be allowed to measure and threaten a politician in that country. This is the purpose of this law and I am sure that it must be unanimous, our unanimous opinion that certain things are simply unacceptable. Look, we're talking about groups. The group quickly formed, a very aggressive group of anti-vaccinators. They had a certain time in the media where they could in a kind of calm, dignified way present their position. When that was not enough for them, they walked around areas where citizens were being vaccinated and threatened there, in particular. They threatened doctors who were vaccinated, threatened those who stood in line. I am firmly convinced that there is no such thing on the other hand; and this is also one case where this law could be applied. It is simply the purpose of this, and that is why I support it, and therefore we support it, the signal of this assembly is that there is a need to raise, clearly, each of us, a distinction between a decent expression of the opinion that has been in this country or a disagreement. I myself received such opinions, such as before a court, we know what was going on, and every day a certain memorandum was read, and the declaration was read publicly and the scene left. This could also happen on Wednesday, even on Wednesday, the protestors could read the memorandum publicly and break up peacefully. More than that, some in public wanted to justify the act. If there really was a large majority of peaceful protestors in this group, we could make sure that this violence was crushed. If they could follow those who started shouting at Jppp Jancho, those behind or who had already been calm would start shouting — not protesting, not violence or something like that. [[…]] And the vast majority would start shouting — peaceful protests and peaceful opposition. That wasn't there. You see that you take care of dignity everywhere, at least about dignity, and pour oil on the fire. And with this article, with these corrections, unfortunately we are in 2021 when we have to give citizens a signal. Will this article ever be used by law enforcement authorities? Let us take care of our actions, with our understanding that they will never need it. Even a great prison sentence, I wish there never were. There's very few of them. And be very few of you, too. Unfortunately, that's the way it is in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. He gets the word "Andrej Chernigoj" for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the second day of the meeting of the National Assembly is taking place this week, and I can see that the debates are very hot on the subject, even in a turbulent one. But today we are considering the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. If we go back a little bit, this law has been adopted in essence since 2006 and until now it has only been completed once, in the part where incriminating the activities of individuals or organised groups who do not have the basis for their operation in the law of so-called guards. At the time, I could not understand some of the colleagues in the National Assembly who were also opposed. They even objected to this law because they said it prevents demonstrations at the borders. I come from a border area along the Schengen border and I have never been able to understand it and I still don't understand it today, but we are different and I also somehow respect this diversity. But here again let me mention that the inhabitants of the Illyrian Bistrica cannot understand this in any way. Secondly, the changes introduced by these amendments and additions are, in particular, all the fines that are still mentioned in the bill are explicitly referred to in euro. This seems a very good thing to me, it shortens procedures, but above all, this daily translation is not necessary. The following is proposed to expand the set of eligible reasons for collecting voluntary contributions. And this is where it spreads, either in case of illness or physical injury. In the past days, the media also report to us daily on various gatherings, especially for small children, and of course we all like to come to the rescue. Voluntary contributions are prohibited in a way that is also an obstacle to peace, causing excitement or harassing people. Sometimes this is the way that some may feel in this desire to help even more, sometimes even crossing this line, which some may already view as harassment. But I certainly think that here we have been trying to capture these positive effects and somehow allow the collection of voluntary contributions to be extended in case of illness or physical injury. In the amendments themselves, we have tried to further authorize repentance, according to local terms, with carbide or other gas mixtures only during Easter holidays, work holidays or during the celebrations set by the local community by its regulations. Here I would like to say that I understand that some citizens and citizens, that this is a carbide or other gas mixture of theirs, would somehow say cultural heritage, cultural heritage and the preservation of cultural heritage. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this may be a very stressful situation for domestic animals. But here we kind of limited to specific days of the year, which are more exceptional than the rule. I would stress and also support the proposal to prohibit shooting outside the firing range if this is not permitted by regulations. It is proposed to further define a worse form of abuse of the public display of the sex organs with a higher fine of between €400 and €800. This is mainly a matter of public places in cramped settlements, public gatherings, transport links, tourist areas or facilities where children and minors are gathered. I am pleased that in the future we will avoid inappropriate demonstrations, including demonstrations. Or perhaps some inappropriate display of a bit of unusual courting methods. I am pleased that the fine for forced or abusive begging in a public place will increase. I don't think this area has been regulated enough. The various beggars, I'll say, for the first time, were not Slovenians, for the second time, were not beggars, but I call it professional beggars, their life story is mostly very difficult nature, but many times they didn't beg for themselves, but for others. And it's huge abroad, and it's also being tackled in a similar way. Also, this proposed fine of between €50 and €250 will somehow keep these people, and especially theirs, I can say, also prevent criminal associations from marching through Slovenian cities. To conclude, I have kept the subject that we have been discussing or discussing in this National Assembly for the past two hours. Here we have also tried to draw attention mainly to hostile debates, especially in this Chamber, and to the fear that hatred can spread even to our streets. I think I've been a politician for two years. I'm not the kind of guy my co-worker said I was a member of some elite. I do not consider myself a member of the elite, but the citizens of Illyrian Bistrica trusted me to sit here and decide not only about them, but about the whole of Slovenia. That kind of expression seems very bad to me. And I have one thing to say. Because of me, we have not adopted an ethical code in this national council. We have accepted for the sake of some individuals, because of some individuals of the same political group. And we've adopted this code 12. 6. 2020. Let me remind you that even when I was not a Member, I had been following the debate, a very gallant debate, I will say, even a very brutal debate when some of the authorities gave up and this debate in the National Assembly deteriorated significantly. I must say, I have never dressed inappropriately myself, I have never worn inappropriate signs that may have blamed a number of victims in the country. But this burden will have to be borne by some colleagues, I don't. That's why we adopted the code of ethics. Because of this hatred, which began in this hall and has also moved to the streets, we have come to our present situation. And we are also witnessing, grumbling, attacks on citizens of various political beliefs, the invasion of RTV Slovenia, violent protests and so on in the last few months. Our initiative is sincere, our initiative goes to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not only to Members or politicians, as some have expressed themselves poorly; and with our powers we have tried to respond to such phenomena in our society. I want the coalition and the opposition to step together here to somehow give a uniform, same picture to citizens and citizens that such behaviour on the street is unacceptable. I must say that I will be very pleased to support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. I would like these changes and additions to be supported as widely as possible in this esteemed assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected colleague told me that he would be very happy to support this novel. I don't know if there's anyone in this National Assembly who's actually going to be happy to support this novel. I'll try to explain professionally and argumentatively why not. I'm kind of judging, and I'm not going to offend anyone, and it doesn't sound self-inflicted, that there are three of us in this room right now that can be quite competent to explain these things. Why? Because all three of us did it. And if the general public could understand what this is about, I would first describe how important it is that the amendment that we have proposed in the opposition should also be adopted today. The current legislation is the following. Article 7 contains the basic form of a misdemeanor that speaks – whoever is arguing, yells, behaves indecently in a public place, is punished with a fine of between 25 thousand tolars and 100,000 tolars, even now. Then the second paragraph, which speaks of the qualified form of this offence or, I will say, at home, the worse the form of this offence; that is, whoever is arguing, shouting or misbehaving towards an official in the official business, is also worse. Therefore, the amount of the fine is also higher. Why is that? Who are officials, you can all see in Article 99 of the Penal Code, where all officials are tax-listed. The Law on Offences also refers in the commentary to the Penal Code. So there are all — from police officers, editors, inspection services, local authorities, mayors, mayors, deputies, Prime Minister, ministers and so on. What does that mean? This means that we have already arranged, it is true that it relates to official business, that is, when someone is officially operating. If I say this in practice, the policeman who stopped someone ordered him an alcote, which he disagreed with, sent him into three fines or worse, the officer gave the man a fine because he was misbehaved in his official business. So that cop who heard the threat or the insult, the swearer who was meant for him, gave him a fine. This has been the case so far, and this is the case with the legislation. The question that we're being asked is, why is that? Why are police and officials actually somehow more protected than the others? Lawyers explain and I agree with them that this is because they exercise certain powers. Powers, therefore, carry out certain tasks that are beneficial to society and sometimes unpopular. And because of this, the legislator has protected them in the past, so that some attacks, verbal or whatever, have been defined by the legislators as a worse offense. And here we can draw a parallel, say, from the Penal Code. If we have, on the one hand, a criminal offence in the Penal Code, that attacks on people or bodily harm are from light, severe, particularly serious bodily injury, we also have in one part a criminal offence — an attack on an official when carrying out security tasks. And there's a worse punishment at stake here. What does that mean? This means that they are also protected here, because when they perform safety tasks, they have to be somehow more protected than everyone else. I hope you're still following me here and that things are running like they are. And the year 2015 comes when the Penal Code has changed. And in this Penal Code, the news was that a provision had been adopted that defined that if crimes against honour and good name were committed against an official, this would be prosecuted on a proposal from the injured party, meaning that if he made a proposal, it would be carried out on an official basis. The police are on the case, the prosecution is on the case, and then the court is on the case. But you, dear colleagues, those who were there at the time, here I also look at the current coalition, namely SDS, SMC and others, have confirmed this with the majority that Members will be exempt from this and the crimes committed against them, against honour and good name, will be prosecuted in a private action. In your explanation, you wrote that the proposed way of strengthening the protection of freedom of expression is to be relatively strengthened so that the criminal proceedings of the State will be somewhat more limited within the system of constitutional democracy of Slovenia. This is Article 1 of the Constitution, which is also in line with the principle of ultimatum ratio. It's been six years since then, and we're here to exacerbate the situation in some way. What's changing? This second part is changed, the tummine official is removed. Therefore, an official is no longer specifically protected, but is determined to commit an offence by someone who is in public, who yells or disrespects an individual or a group located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and with such behaviour, attention may cause or damage to the reputation of an individual or group. And such conduct shall be personally detected by an authorised official of the criminal authority at the place of the offence. The problem is “may cause”. So if a person — and this is written in a comment by the Law on Offences, when a person behaves indecently — does not behave indecently enough to cause a person to argue, yell, but must cause a person’s excitement, excitement, or threat to the individual or group for the existence of this offence. He's got to do it. The police can't know that until whoever was the target of this verbal attack tells him that, too. And now we can figure out what this offense would look like in practice. Let's say we have a group of people or an individual who, in a public place protected by a police officer, screams out loud and shouts, so we have the first condition fulfilled, the President of the Government is incompetent, say, anyone, anyone. And I'm asking you. A police officer will then hear and think that this can cause an individual’s anxiety, or it can cause or damage his reputation. And that kind of behavior was detected in the very place, and there is already a misdemeanor and a fine. Do you still think that's okay? I'm really trying to be professional, go into details, but that's the way it is. That's right. Be aware that it goes to the other side so that the word “left fascism” will also bring some sanctions. Or not. Depends on who rules the Ministry of the Interior. And if we allow it to start thinking this way, then it's totally unacceptable. It is therefore very important, respected, that this amendment, which we have drafted in the opposition, should be returned to the state of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace as it was. So far, the legislation has been clear, the case law has been perfectly clear, the police have been able to tell when the offence is and when it is not an offence. Here we place them in an extremely difficult position to assess for themselves whether something can cause alarm or alarm or endanger or damage their reputation; or not. You know, if he threatens me, I don't know, one of my colleagues, like Jana Prednik, is also very relative, whether I'm going to take this threat as a threat or not. Someone's gonna feel threatened, scared, I don't know which one. Maybe I won't. But it's up to me, Your Honor, not a cop who might be able to judge whether or not he can cause something. And here we're putting him in a very difficult position, how he's going to define this offense and how it's going to go. Finally, I ask you whether this article will be adopted, where we then put all these police officers, judges and all the others who have been protected by this article. Where did we put them? In Article 1, to argue in a public place, to scream, to behave indecently? We just erased them. And I want someone to explain to me whether this article is now a privileged form of fundamental offense or a qualified form. According to the penalty, she could be worse, that is to say qualified, but by the very evidentiary standard she could be privileged – she may or may not be. And when legislation is so vague, so respected, then we all have great problems together. I believe that you've all prepared some didactic tools, pictures, and you'll show how someone's come up somewhere, how someone turns something on, what doesn't excite. But, Your Honor, let us first make a legal definition of this problem. Let us first determine whether the legislation is clear in this case, in this article, or not. And, Your Honor, I strongly hope that my colleagues who have done this will agree with me - that the legislation is not clear, that it is a completely subjective assessment, how and which of the police officers has a rank, what it means for someone to be threatened, upset or hurt their reputation. Someone has a higher threshold of tolerance. I have a very high threshold before someone takes me to the plants and someone doesn't have one. And that's why I think so too, so that some word that's been said to be incompetent doesn't actually mean that there's some kind of damage to my reputation. He's going to see someone. It is true, however, that the matter must be made clear and that the situation must be placed within some clear framework. And in that case, it's not. And once again, we still have protected officials. Before you discuss it, please refer to section 99 of the Penal Code, which is referred to in the Law on Offences. It lists all officials, including Members, including the Prime Minister, including ministers. We are changing something and putting it into some frameworks that are no longer clearly defined, and this is why there will be confusion, but the police will have an extremely difficult task to find out what can cause anxiety and what can not. I've been doing this for 30 years and believe me, I know what I'm talking about. And here I leave behind all the ideological things that you've armed yourself with, who's standing where and who's not standing. But I'm actually talking about it. There'll be someone else in the government tomorrow. There'll be another secretary of state tomorrow. There'll be another minister tomorrow. The policeman will stay the same for 30 years or more, scratching his head whether something is exciting or not exciting. Your Honor, I'm really asking you to listen to these things that I'm telling you because I'm not talking to myself, I'm speaking from experience. And here we should actually draw the line, return the matter. All other things are so acceptable and thank God that the fine is being corrected from tolars to euros. And there are also some good solutions to the Noise Offences Act, where, if an anonymous report is made, a police officer can take action, which has not been possible until now. These are good things. However, this doctrine is so vague, so vague and so questionable that we cannot really accept it, because it comes from the subjective assessment of a person who has one or the other threshold of tolerance. I'll be in touch if I have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Franz Kangler, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I can almost half agree with you that your arguments here today have been correct. But you ignored something. It is always up to the police officer to decide subjectively whether to issue a fine or whether such a violation is such a regret to decide on such a measure. Always. And you're wondering how he'll be able to assess that. If he is able to assess himself as an authorised official, he will be able to assess another. But it's wrong for you to think about who's going to be in the next government Minister of the Interior, that's how cops behave. You were 35, 40 years old, and you know very well, cops work professionally, professionally, according to the law, no matter who the minister is. And it would be bad for the Minister to influence the work of the police in this way, as you have thought here. That would be really bad. It's unacceptable, all of it. And such thinking makes no sense in adopting legislation. Police officers must respect the legislation, regardless of what the Minister's statement or one of the politicians is. Also look at your German MP, how much he's putting pressure on the police with Twitter, Facebook and so on. But his statements must not affect the work of the police. He can be critical, he can criticize the police as an opposition member, but the police must work professionally, quickly and effectively, especially as you know, legally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I wouldn't agree, my dear fellow, with you. Perhaps I was also misunderstood as to subjective evaluation. In fact, police rarely subjectively judge. If you are drunk or not drunk, except in public order and peace, fine; but in traffic we do have technical tools for this. Then, you fight or you don't fight, there's a known fact. In the case of verbal delinquency, particularly in the case of verbal delinquency, such as crimes against honour and good name, and of course also in the case of offences, the matter is different. And this is where the legislator left the possibility that whoever was the target of this verbal delinquent would decide whether or not to pursue the matter. If someone who is the target of an attack is upset and threatened, he must make this clear. And he usually says that by calling the police and saying, "This one has crippled me, insulted me and insulted me, and this is damaging to my reputation." And that, of course, is the trigger that the officer then prepares to take a fine. And then all the legal remedies are clearly available, from one objection to another and also to a hearing in a criminal court. Respectful, therefore, it is the giving of police officers to assess subjectively how someone might feel when words were spoken, very much on a scale, or very critical. And that's what I'm talking about. Otherwise, the facts are clear. The police see that something has been stolen, the policeman sees that someone is drunk, the policeman realizes that he feels bad for himself because someone has offended him; and here he is at the same time in the role of the one who writes the sentence as well as can assess that he was upset about it. And it's a perfectly clear matter here. But I can't say that my colleague Jani Prednik was upset because someone told him something without him giving me the impulse to be upset about it. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u122	Your Honor, I agree with you, you're right. In the case of traffic offences, a policeman may be identified on the basis of techniques, radar and other things, images and the like. In public order and peace, however, we cannot put all violations into law, so in carrying out police duties, in the law on public order and peace, a policeman will always subjectively decide whether or not the offence has been committed under the law on public order. Therefore, an opportunity is given against the fine, if it is already pronounced, so-called judicial protection, that instead of an incident policeman, someone else decides to commit a violation, another authority is said to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Replica, Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u124	Look, I don't know if it's a subjective assessment if a cop is watching someone urinate in a public place, which is a violation of public order and peace. It's a fact again. Then the noise, the music it detects on the spot, is also not an subjective assessment. It may be in a certain case, but we need to be here again, look, we need a trigger here, too, someone who's disturbed by this noise to say it. And what have we had so far? That he couldn't have been found by a police officer on his own if he didn't have someone to be disturbed by. Now we're changing this so the police can figure out for themselves that I'm upset because someone sent me somewhere. That's what I'm talking about. That's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. There are no more categories of citizens and citizens in Slovenia. We all have the same rights and we also have the same duties. But we find ourselves in different situations in life, sometimes more in the shadows, and sometimes more in the sight of everyone. When I became a long time ago and was a principal for a long time, I knew that I had to be an example, for otherwise neither my parents nor my students would take me seriously. And that's why I didn't think I'd cross a road across the aisle. A teacher who gives a training measure to a student also does so on the basis of his assessment. We trust the Master. Why do we trust him? Because he has to be professional and professional. However, the teacher may also not be professional and professional, followed by measures of labour law. The teacher, who took off his pants on Prešeren Square, did so in his spare time. I think there is no one in Slovenia who can say that this teacher was then an example to his students. Member of the Marjan Sarca list stole the sandwich before he went to the debate, and in private time, he had to resign. And he was just hungry and nervous and then he regretted it, but he had to back out. Master didn't have to. The principal who cheated on his wife in the office with his teacher, and they filmed it, not only resigned, but committed suicide. Look, this shows how we're in different situations. Citizens and citizens can walk peacefully in Ljubljana, but Members and Members of Parliament are physically attacking us, especially me as verbally and physically with rejection, my colleagues spit. Others are threatened with murder – kill Janša. Has anyone been responsible for this? That must have been a cultural performance. Not only did I have a hockey touch, but I've had several minutes of anxiety and threats. But since I am a Member, I must bear this; according to yours. On the other hand, if someone were to hurt me and my voice would weaken, of course, the ratio of power in the vote could be changed. This means that we are also Members and Members in a special position. There was an attack on Parliament last Wednesday, at the time of the meeting. The MPs here, and we were hostages. Well, not all of them. Although the two committees were held, it was not at the end when it was the hottest, no SD member, only rare, two and three from the Left. Mr. Rudy Bear, who was talking about repression, wasn't there. Police officers were wounded in front of Parliament. And there's no peace. There is no peace in private time. To the Prime Minister, socializing in private time is evident, and I was told by the Reporter years ago that after a lecture with Milan Kučan, I shook hands with him, which was purely in line with the bonton. About the former Prime Minister, the government is spreading on Twitter that he's a clown. I don't think that's going anywhere. We are Members, Members of Parliament, and in fact this is the mission. We also have obligations in our free time, and that is why we are in a different position. It's the same with the cops. I think that it is in the United States that an attack on a police officer is much worse than an attack on another citizen; however, the United States of America, by its constitution, is an example of a system that is supposed to respect rights and where everyone should be equal. If we're talking about a cop's judgment, whether he's judging well or not, the guarantee is his profession, his code, his expertise. It may happen that some police officer misjudges, but here we still have a court and a complaint. The guarantee for this is the work of the police, which must be commended, they are doing exemplaryly. And with great regret, I can say that police officers were wounded last Wednesday in violent protests. And I think that should be punished strictly. Not because of myself as a person, but because of the Institute of Members and Members, it seems to me that the Institute should be defended. And a police officer is a security guard. If a Member and Member of Parliament or a Minister of State is a defender of the correctness of democracy, then a police officer is a defender of security. And I think we really need to protect the institutes. This isn't about people personally. When I stop being an MP, as one famous English poet says, I will do what I will like. Today I have to do what I have to do and what is exemplary. And that's why the institute needs to be defended. Despite the mistakes we can make, we must be exemplary, and we must defend these institutions, such as the institution of the Member, the Member of Parliament, the teacher, the teacher and the policeman, the police. I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Next up is Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today's amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is actually a reaction and an attempt to relativise the communication practice that has been in place in Slovenia in recent months. Fifteen or twenty people unite, and then they heroically go after one, the one they don't like. Nobody mind if they're other women's sex. In this way, they claim to express their heroic civil resistance against the hated authorities. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that in all of these debates, we are actually talking about three highly commendable human qualities – stupidity, selfishness and intimacy – with regard to the basic amendment and its corrections and now with the amendment of the opposition colleagues. Something about stupid first. It's been a few days since I decided to stretch my legs a little outside of the National Assembly. And, of course, it didn't work again without the now established folklore. When I was walking towards the western edge of the Republic Square, two citizens began shouting Sicharically — a traitor. I turned against them, I took a step against them, and they turned against me. When we got close to communication, I asked what the problem was. And one of them, in a conversational tone, explained to me that I was a traitor because I allowed Janša to take power. I explained that Janša did what he did on the basis of the electoral outcome. That the electoral outcome achieved by his party is far better than that achieved by, for example, the other party in the June 2018 elections. I wouldn't have thought what amazement that was. They both forgot to close their mouths. I continued to explain that my position is that the current alternative of existing authorities is still significantly worse than it is and that I am building this claim on my own curve of experience because I was part of a government coalition that ruled from September 2018 to January 2020, and I saw from within all the incompetence, all the disorganisation and all the volunteering. I have information as an internal participant, which are extensive, which are quality, which are complete, information that is completely different compared to their information from the media. That was no longer amazement. What followed was total perplexity. There was nothing serious to talk about anymore, but I have experienced what I have experienced in the last six months even several times since Ljubljana, the standard conclusion of the conversation – we will remember you and you will already get yours. You can imagine how scared I was, and what meaning I attach to it. But something, ladies and gentlemen, is more important. Foolishness is a more dangerous enemy to good than evil, for we can expose evil, and if necessary, we can prevent it by force; evil bears in itself the call of its own destruction, because it leaves a person unwittingly. But against stupidity, we're powerless. There is nothing to be achieved here, not by disclosure or by force, but for no reason whatsoever. Facts that contradict their own prejudices simply do not need to be believed. Even though facts are inevitable, they can easily be avoided as insignificant individual coincidences. In doing so, the fool, unlike the wicked man, is content with himself to the end and can become even dangerous because he is easily irritated and easily attacked. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, much more caution is needed against the fool than against the evil man. To know how to deal with stupidity, we must strive to understand its essence. But one thing is certain. Foolishness is not a defect of intellect, stupidity is a defect of humanity. The fact that a fool is often stubborn must not lead us into thinking that he is also independent. It is in our conversation with him that we feel that we are not dealing with him personally, but with the wings and passwords that have dominated him. He is blinded, abused within himself by his own inner exile. And when a fool becomes such an unwitting tool, he will be able to do all kinds of evil and at the same time be unable to recognize any evil. This is also the danger of diabolical abuse. That way, people will be doomed again and again. The question is, however, whether it is really possible to penalise such a thing, as is envisaged here in the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law. But this is only one part of the matter. All that was at stake first for the amendment of the coalition, then its amendment, and also now for the amendment of the opposition, stems from the dissatisfaction of a certain part of the citizens and citizens. What if, ladies and gentlemen, such a number of discontents have created a purely insulted self-love? The yellow spread by printed media, sensationalism and trivia, which are blowing from all kinds of screens, the arrogance promoted by NGOs – we have many people, aggressive, angry, aimless, selfish, overwhelmed with destruction. The Internet fire is much bigger and more dangerous than the fire on the roof of any building. In other words, the portals are very fond of bomb headlines, such as the Internet, or Gori’s social networks, and so forth. Fires are not without fire, but fire is not without oxygen. Similarly to the Internet, which is to spread all kinds of ignorance, malice, lies, ignorance, and stupidity the same thing as oxygen for fire. It is no different from our loving selfishness, which in a strange way creates different forms of happiness everywhere. He drew three curves with a computer program, and he thinks he's Euclid. He thinks he's another Hermogene, but you know rhetoric as a mole of astronomy and screams unpleasant as a dick who fucks a chicken like a man married. It was by chance that an article about righteousness was passed on as honesty, and John Rawls seemed to himself. Everyone has a special self-esteem, less than anyone knows, more conceited and conceited, worse to bathe and shoppers. And they all find a bowl for their salad: as much as the insatiability is greater, the more lovers they gain; for they are always the worst doses most of them by year. Is it possible, therefore, that the dissatisfaction conditioned by selfishness may be limited by the penalties proposed here, I leave it to you, ladies and gentlemen, to your personal judgment. Selfishness, however, has a sister. This sister, who is so much like her, is called a sleekness. For as love of self is nothing but a god of himself, so affectionateness is precious to one’s neighbor. Today, of course, the sleekness is quite perplexed. But who? For those who are self-sufficiently titled with normalizers and rejuvenations. Of course, there is also some really harmful type of creepingness that is sometimes brought to ruin by smoldering villains and impoverishmenters of simple rock. But this one has nothing to do with their likability. They come from a kind of kindness and sincerity and are much closer to virtue than its adversary to robustness and tenderness. And flattery is the archetype or foundation of the amendment that is put in here, lifts the broken heart, comforts the sad, encourages the malnourished, revives the warm, heals the sick, the peaceed, burns the young to learn and bright the old. At the same time, it is possible for each person to be even more pleasant and dear to himself, which is certainly essential for personal happiness. For what is more loving than a mule's mule? It thus has a large share in such a praised culture, even greater in medicine and the greatest in politics. In one word, the sweetness is between and abounded in all political life. When I think about what is actually possible through a legal dictatorship that potentially can punish the impersonal savagery that we have witnessed in interpersonal communication over the past few months, the question arises to me, difficult as a lead dilemma, whether I should vote for this proposal or not, because of course it is the second side; what has already been mentioned today, how it will potentially be voted and then, in the Constitutional Court, the proposal has been implemented in practice. But if there is anything to be done to ensure that savagery in public communication from any level is calmed down in a way that even those who are going to go wild will pay a little bit for it, then I am always in favour of such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u129	Procedurally, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u130	Presidents, I know that there is freedom of speech here, but perhaps we could remind the Member not to offend the opposition with the definitions we have witnessed in this Treaty, because this has indeed been below the level. I could almost say that I would almost suggest that we get a thousand euros for the insults he has afforded on our account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I didn't realize that Comrade Polnar would insult the opposition. He talks about the human qualities of certain groups of people, not to offend anyone in particular. Procedurally, Dušan Shiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u132	President, thank you for your word. Interestingly, the colleague noticed Mr Polnar when he said and disgraced us, Members. But I'm going to ask myself otherwise, or all the Members, whether you didn't think it was a bit of a disgraceful speech from my colleague Too Draga when he said that only three could understand this law and be able to discuss it. We'd rather ask him here and ask him to apologize. It is procedural and I therefore suggest that the point should be interrupted, because only three here understand this law and even three can only debate and one of them is Mr Predrag, who also said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I propose not to complicate the debate with unnecessary procedural proposals. We're not stopping this session now. The fact is that this is what colleague Baković said, because he estimates that there are three who have performed certain functions in the procedures of official duty, but we will discuss the law further. Violeta Tomic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u134	You know that the predecessor abused the procedure, so let us, the opposition, not recognize ourselves on this, but I wrote a few quotations: selfish NGOs, malice, lies, stupidity, insolence. Of course, I also understood Mr Baković differently; the three were involved in police work here and their experience could be heard slightly differently. But apparently the malice, the lies and the stupidity, the insatiableness, as Polnar says, prevail here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have violated the procedural proposal because my colleague Šisko has proposed the suspension of the meeting and I have refused to do so, and you point to some other things. This is my job, and I have not seen that anything in this work would be significantly weaker or significantly more commendable than in any other debate by other Members. I suggest we move on. In this round, he gets the last word of Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, we have to clarify something about this, I will say, saying that members of the Left should leave the committee, which we have also convened or convened ourselves. First of all: all the members we had to be present on this committee or at a joint meeting of these two committees were present until the end, and this is one big lie that spreads around. But personally, because of what was happening outside Parliament outside the National Assembly, because I wanted to experience it on my skin and see what was going on, I stayed until seven o'clock in the morning in the National Assembly, and this could also be confirmed by the security service here in the National Assembly. So please don't repeat these lies because they're lies. It would also be right that, if everyone is required to apologize, even from the opposition, it is only right that once again the coalition apologizes. I don't ask, but it would be fair, but it's fair, because look, whatever. Then, now, this tract, or one of the letters that was created under Mr Polnar's fingernails, was on the one hand, I will say, tragic and on the other hand extremely insulting. Extremely insulting to all these NGOs that are trying at this time of the coronavirus to even have something to eat, clothes and other things to add. So, from those who care for the most vulnerable and even the poorest in our society, it's not appropriate to make fun of them. Then I'm going to go back to his debate about this crying, because you're constantly crying about the crosswords, how bad you've been doing everything. Look, things are already happening to me, and I've never been able to ring that big bell – or ring the bell if you want to – about what they threatened me, about what they wanted to do to me, about what was happening to me. If I wanted to, I could give you a book, and you'd watch too much, because I can confirm everything. But that's why I came to Parliament, because I was aware of what was waiting for me as a Member, that I would be challenged on the wallpaper daily, even discredited regret, even from your party newspaper in a very ugly way, at first, and I never discussed it very much or did it. This is our part, I will not say that part of our job – it is not right – but unfortunately, until we change it at some state level or at some human level, that people will also start thinking differently and also be social, even on the right hand side – I am talking about you. Because all the insults that came to me or to me were unfortunately from this right field of politics. However, there will be no mistake, I have many good colleagues who are right-wing politicians and so on, but with them I understand well, but the insults have come from your side. Now we're going to the marriage. Look, here's the thing. Mr Predrag Baković has previously raised some very interesting points, as well as questions that are open to themselves. First of all, there's actually a question here for the cops. Will a police officer in a crime if he doesn't make the right decision or if he doesn't detect the crime and there, for example, will he become Prime Minister, President of the Government, who sees everything and sees everything? I'm afraid these police officers will agree very quickly in some disciplinary procedure, that I won't say anything worse, maybe even lose my job. Even if you want this word to be an all-outer, or if you want to act human, or if you want to act like you're talking about an all-outer, all-people, about all our people in Slovenia, I can't tell you, because the basic purpose of this law was to protect the real government policy and the President of the Government. Even if you listened attentively when you discussed it on the other side, you did not say almost nothing about the doormats, but you kept talking about John Janša. If he's a pimp, I don't think so. He's actually a political figure, he's the president of the government, and he's not the kind of person you want to talk about or even introduce to people what you're talking about. If you want, you could be some sort of first-class pimp, but all the rest of us are second-class bridesmaids — right? Now get back to the law. The fact is, this law should not have consented to parliamentary rations. However you close your eyes, however you take a breath, you fight for the image of a great leader, you look for the X-ray excuses, just to protect a person or a cult. I'll just say a cult, actually a political cult, because what you're saying is actually not political or democratic. Each politician or every Democrat must have at least one shred of criticism to be able to critically resist improper moves, including those that follow. And I am most dismayed, I must admit – and I have already told you this one more time, and I will tell you again – that you are working on the other side quite often as ordinary puppets because you are repeating everyone, one after the other. In fact, I don't know if this right policy works that way, that you're just repeating the same thing. I don't think so. Because I know right-wing politics and those really right-wing policies that are overtaken by a specific dose of doubt and criticism. What you're telling us on our left is what you keep telling us, which is true. Left-wing democracy or left-wing politics is very critical, too often too self-critical to itself and too little possible to the right-wing policy. With this law or with these proposals you have put into this law, what is actually happening again is what should not have happened, as we have discussed several times here in the National Assembly. Again, the weakest, the poorest. I'll just take the case. Let's just say we had an ominous curfew recently. In fact, a homeless person who happened to be on the street and a police officer comes by will, in fact, now — with what you write in this law — have to go deeper. In fact, this person does not have a way out, there is no other way out than to be punished, and this person cannot pay or is already basically stigmatised, and after this punishment he will have more or more problems than he already has. Then the following, including the powers you want to continue to extend to the editors. These editorial services have already repeatedly warned the previous governments, as well as this government, that their powers are in fact already too broad. In fact, this will give them even broader powers to be held accountable both at personal and work level. I must admit that I simply like to listen when someone speaks out of practice, as Predrag has explained things when a former police officer, however, actually denies not only at the political level, but at the professional level of the law, the matter is not questionable, but it could be closed immediately, says ad acta. The law on the table. It's not okay. Yeah, sorry, that's right. Yeah, that's right. [[advertising from the hall]] Besides you, Jani, and you have a constant problem with the police, mostly, the thing is that this law is simply not right because it will do what it shouldn't. [[…]] He's gonna hit the pocket again of the weakest and most vulnerable group. But what is really the most important and also the goal of this law, which you basically wanted or wanted to accept, is to destroy the criticism of the government system. At the same time, you want to destroy the protests, the constitutional rights of the people. In fact, you want or deny the Constitution. I will not say that the law is essentially not constitutional, because even if it did happen to the Constitutional Court, but after what a person reads, it is clear that this law is intended only for one and only matters; and this is only to protect the President of the Government and the government structure, who is currently ruling, that the people would not resist, that individuals would not resist, who are critical of thinking about what they want to explain – however. Once again, this law is not intended for second-rate shopkeepers, but it is clearly intended for first-class storks. And as long as that is the case, I think it is right that this law is not adopted and that the matter is concluded in any way, because it is not actually going anywhere. Because with these repressive laws, or even the decrees that you come to the wallpaper daily, you really want people to simply explode, and then those things that you want or describe in marriage will actually happen. People will then be deeply engrossed for everything, in fact, in their own words. In fact, maybe it's just the wrong view or the wrong look, I don't know, anyway. And that's not right. Democracy works and must function or operate on the principle of some trust, and you actually want and do just that. You don't want democracy, and you don't want it because you don't trust people, you don't want it or you don't deserve it to be trusted. [[…]] I'm sorry, not in that way. To come earlier by law in its original form, which was actually intended only to protect the political elite, and then to change it with various inputs in the sense that it is a common hearer, is actually insulting to all of us. But not to speak of the poor and the weakest in our society, which are indeed true allies under this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. / adverts from benches/ Yeah, I'll open another round. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In fact, there is no need for high - flying words today. We all know that more or less the debate is about this controversial article, which raises the fines for this very resounding offence. But at the same time, today we need to stress this again, and we have stressed this, together with the support of many legal experts, that such a change as is now proposed is not really necessary. The law already knows the offence of sanctioning unworthy behaviour today, and in my opinion the current, current diction is significantly better than the diction you are proposing with this amendment. Earlier in our position, we could have heard that the law did not speak of any violence or vice versa, we had heard a representative of the SDS that the law spoke only and only of violence and not of some verbal offenses and so on, but that is not true. If we read the text of this new article, it nicely states that between 500 and thousands of euros are being punished, who are fighting in public, who are shouting, who behaves indecently; in short, this is all an act where there is talk or a verbal act, and therefore do not pretend that this is not an attempt on the one hand, on the one hand, to silence all those vocal critics of this government more or less. I greatly appreciate and very welcome the debate that my colleague Baković had had, because he has handled this article very clearly, professionally and analytically, so that I will not repeat myself here, although I have prepared very similarly. However, I would like to point out that in a dictatorship such as this, I will read again from this provision of yours, where you write that "whosoever cries, fights or behaves indecently, and with such conduct can cause alarm, or excitement, or endangerment, and with such conduct harms one's reputation". So, everything is potentially, hypothetically inconclusive, indeterminate, this, respected gentlemen of the government, and this is the kind of danger that should not be allowed in a criminal policy in a state of law. Criminal law or legislation, especially those who punish our citizens, must be specific, precise, in advance, but not that every time we say something out loud on the street, any of us will be afraid, at any time, of whether a police officer standing across the road will understand my loud voice as a scream, whether he will perceive it as an unworthy behavior, or he will understand it, as if I am causing it to some alarm, I think, all of this is so very inconclusive that it is unacceptable that we will accept it – you have already confirmed it on the committee. [[…]] By doing this, you don't want to hear it or not, you're creating a society of repression. And don't say that such a norm has no frightening effect, and don't say that such a norm where you raise [[…]] Let me explain first. It is not the biggest problem at all, or one of the problems is a high fine of up to 1,000 euros, which is disproportionate, you did not argue why it is so high now, you did not talk about any general, special prevention, which all of these assumptions need to be taken into account if we are going to any change in criminal policy, but even more. This provision of yours is disputed mainly because it is so indeterminate that it will be interpreted today so, tomorrow so, tomorrow, when one policeman has a bad day, and yet again another. Because unwittingly there is a human factor in this provision, and only a human factor will decide who will potentially cause some anxiety, and I don't know what not to repeat myself. It is illustrative to expect or defend — I too hope that whoever follows us can think a little with his head. It's illusory to expect a police officer on the road to give someone a thousand euros in fines because, say, he and his wife will have a loud argument. Watch out, shouting is one of the signs of the offence and the offence is not written in such a way that all the signs must be cumulatively covered, but it is either, or, or. So, someone who's gonna fight loud on the road with his wife can be a cop. What? After your gloat with thousands of euros? Please, it's unrealistic to expect and that's illusory! On the other hand, yes, but I agree with this that it is very realistic to expect a police officer to be someone who will yell loudly on the road or speak a little more loudly about it and one and the third who will not take pleasure in the current ruling suit, and there I believe that a policeman will like to punish a man with thousands of euros of fines. And here's the problem, because the thing, once again, is so inconvenient that it leaves an excessive field of discretion for an individual policeman. There will be no mistake, I have no doubt in the expertise of our officers, but I doubt that the leadership of our officers is capable of going beyond themselves and not abuse what you are now putting into their minds. I seriously doubt that. And that is especially so because the intention that you have pursued with this amendment to this article will be in your eyes, and this will be punished. I have said it before, and I will say it again, and this is my opinion or opinion of LMŠ: I do not believe in coincidence, but it should be a coincidence, Mr Kangler, that as a government you have tabled or brought into our house on 17 May without amending this article. Let it be a coincidence that in mid-July we were all given coalition and opposition attacks to deal with the controversial novel of the Infectious Diseases Act. And then the government didn't come with that change. Coincidence, okay. Then, at the end of August, that Kredarica happens — a coincidence. Look at the fraction, the coincidence again, September 1st, the government comes with this amendment of this article and, again, by chance, in the original version you even wrote that this amount of fine is intended only for such behaviour that would be directed against the officials – these are government representatives of course – and you listed the other ones along with you so much that you covered the whole package. By the way, you didn't explicitly mention the President of the Republic, you may have let him go or he doesn't deserve to be treated like that, and you never explained that, and you don't have to, because it's now made up of the world. But I mean, this is all a coincidence to you, even though it will be in your eyes. As it is said, it creates needless mistrust, dissatisfaction, anger if you want. On the other hand, legal experts in criminal law tell you that such a change is not necessary, that the law is already sufficient to sanction such conduct, that the amount of the penalty is disproportionate to other fines in criminal law plus in criminal law. There, too, we know, are fines for crimes, plus that you have been warned of, let's say, a conflict between a crime against, say, honour and a good name and during this offence, which you are now introducing with this dictatorship, which is nothing like it and will be capable of covering, I don't know, tell me, Mr Kangler, an example, some actual situation where you can explain to me, tell me when it will be a crime of regret or a crime against the whole group, against honour and good name, and when it will only be a crime. [[…]] Tell me, because I think that such clear distinctions today, with such a dictatorship as you state, cannot be made – there can be done – without leaving the door open for such and different interpretations as we know where they belong, right, to the unspecified legal positions of individuals, where they will not know at all what awaits them, what can befall them. In short, it's unacceptable. Tell me, you said earlier that a police officer would be subjectively evaluated, but that he would already be able to assess when these signs would be fulfilled, I don't know if there would be any anxiety or excitement or a threat to an individual. It's hard to imagine a police officer assessing my personal perception or feelings, but I don't know how to express myself that you'll understand me. How will the police assess whether your words upset me so much that I'm upset, or that I feel threatened, or that I'm upset? He will not be able to judge, or he will necessarily have to emerge from, his own perceptions of the world, if you will. Which is not right! Because I said before; one day a police officer will have such a tolerance that he will evaluate those words that you said to me on the board as if they fit under the fact that you upset me, and the next day another police officer will be at work, but he will assess that they are not the words that would satisfy those descriptions of your new offence. In short, the whole mess is caused by this description of the offence, and believe that you will do more harm than good if you let this one live, because I am very surprised or not so surprised because it is the answer to every warning we give us that can happen. You said before, yes, but those who will not be upset will have the opportunity of judicial protection to complain. Yeah, that's your answer to the government practically to everything. We warn you of these dangers, those irregularities, the third unconstitutionalities, and answer everything because they have a legal remedy to complain about. You said the same thing today, they'll have a chance to get court-martialed. Yes, please! Or in this country, under your government, anything is allowed, what is not explicitly forbidden, but if what is allowed at your borders is what you think is allowed, let the citizens fight in judicial proceedings on their own. Please! If this is a legal state for you, then I'm really worried about where you're taking us. Everything before the rule of law. More like a police station. Let me get this straight. Mr. Hoys, Minister, I expected him to come today, although apparently this is your theme, Mr. Kangler. Nothing to do, but given that Mr Hojs was very loud in commenting on these reactions in the public on this change, I would expect you to come here to explain a few things, perhaps even some offensive, inappropriate and unworthy tweet, and I am very sad that you have taken a position in the ministry, on the government, that a physical attack is something completely different than a verbal account and a verbal attack, say, on Twitter. That's where they go most of the time. I don't know, it just makes me feel the same way about being bullied by a pig, like being pushed a little bit or hitting a newspaper over the head — it's a physical attack. In short, it seems to you that you tolerate or condone the unworthy behaviour of the minister, government representatives on social networks, where they are, by a mile of will, offensive to all other thinkers, that you feel that you are worthy of it and that you do not sanction it, do not stop it, it seems to us in the LMŠ that this is extremely, extremely unacceptable and dangerous when government representatives do so. In the event that our amendment is not confirmed that this article simply disappears from the world because it is bad because it is unprofessional, of course I will not support this law or more, I will vote against it with all responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative, Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dear Member! As I have already told you on the committee, once again in this Chamber, the Kredarica has nothing to do with this amendment in this article you discussed. Neither Janez Janša nor Aleš Hojs proposed the procedure, did not take the initiative, did not want to. And that is to say that this event is not true for the person who has made that provision. I told you on the committee that this was a police proposal and an initiative from the police was given. Unfortunately, however, as a Member, you doubt, say, the leadership of the police. You know, the police station commander really doesn't run the field. It's the policeman who's going to gloat someone; he's going to, or he's not going to be, directly when he's doing his job as a police officer. And that's not true either. You're wondering how the police will judge. He'll probably interview you to figure out the extent to which you as a victim were upset to initiate the procedure. He will likely ask someone else in that environment where there will be a violation of public order and peace. You asked me what the difference is between the crime of regret and this proposal. If someone spits at you or runs into you, it's a violation of public order and peace. However, regret is currently a criminal offence on a proposal and is decided by the court. You're talking about the subjectivity of a police officer, how he's going to judge the subjectivity of the offence. Yeah, how do they judge in court? For 5 grams of heroin in Cyprus you get 10 years in prison, and for 5 grams of heroin in Maribor you get probation. Or case: we have the Supreme Court, two Senate in one and the same case, prostitution, if I may say so. The Supreme Court in the Senate ruled — two different decisions. And you're going to be there today for an ordinary police officer! Yeah, he's gonna have to judge whether or not he's gonna make a fine. It's always the policeman who takes a fine or warns. But the possibility, as I said before, is judicial protection. Judicial practice is also formed in offences concerning judicial protection. I'm sorry you miss Mr. Hoys and his tweets. Every day you're invited to the Ministry of the Interior, we'll be happy to talk to you, or the Minister will talk to you because you miss him. Today, the Minister in Portorož is, as part of the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union, where we are successfully chairing, the international conference of the so-called Frontex. And Mr. Hoys can't be on two different ends. In view of the fact that I also believe and that I am doing the work of the Secretary of State and in view of the long experience, I think I am competent enough to defend this law and the provisions of this Article on behalf of the Government here. But we do have different opinions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The replica has Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u142	Of course I have to respond because Mr. Kangler is far from understanding me. I was talking about Kredarica, and this order of marriage, and I was talking about this controversial new article, if you've listened very carefully to me, about the case. I told you it was just a case, even though you believe I don't believe in cases. Then explain it to yourself as you wish. You say that the proposal of this amended article was tabled on a proposal from the police or I don't know, probably not by the police officer, but by the general director of the police or the summit, a leadership that we know is subordinated to. It's hard to turn the phone around, and say, look, put it down so I don't invest, give you a deposit, and it's done. I mean, don't take us for a fool, Mr. Kangler. We can count one plus one. I asked you if you could tell me, imagine some actual situation where you would show me the distinction between a crime and a crime. Believe me, I know the difference between a crime and a crime. I asked you if you could describe the actual situation to me, but you didn't, because you probably don't know it because it's so inconclusive that it's either one or the other that it's gonna sound like a cop. You keep saying the officer will do some interviews when he's being judged. Mr. Kangler, the clause says that the official will be, after the official duty of persecuting this offence, which means that the police officer will have to assess for himself, because if I say that it did not deplore me, and that the police officer will assess that this was some kind of action that could only have caused me anxiety, then after the official duty, he will have to start the procedure of the offence, even though I can claim that it was nothing that upsets me. He'll have to do it on official duty if he sees it that way. And I was talking about the danger of unequal treatment, the danger of confusion, of citizens not knowing when they're going to be guilty, of when they're not, the police won't know when to prosecute, of when they won't. As far as the courts are concerned, you have made a very unfortunate case. Yes, of course, Mr Kangler, there is evidence in court, there are main hearings I don't know, it was a very unfortunate case that was also being judged in court. [[…]] Yes, of course, only very differently than a police officer will judge in this case, in the event of this offence. Please, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative, Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. You know, honourable Member, even in court, despite the implementation of the evidence, they are often mistaken. A cop can make a mistake, too. I'm allowing that option. Or an unobjective assessment of the offence. Only under the Public Order Act, under all the provisions, is a policeman always the judge of the matter. I'd tell you this because you told us at the Ministry if someone picked up the phone and said, "Police Director does it and that's how you do it." This was your practice when you were in the government. That's what your minister did. Your minister received reports from the OCC every day, and from the moment our minister joined the government, someone stopped sending these reports. Your minister had access to personal data, your minister knew about every event, every address, every birthdate. That's how you did it! Our minister, I'm sure what you've been reading doesn't work; you pick up the phone at home, and you order. The police are working under the law. Police work quickly, effectively, and above all legally, regardless of whether the left or right policy is in the process, or the citizen or any foreigner. The police have to work professionally. And I don't agree to these readings and hints that you've given here today. It is typical, though, that someone in the previous coalition liked to pick up the phone and give directions or orders, how and where and when the police should do or quit. Obviously. Also, that someone was getting unjustifiable reports from the OKC. Interesting!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Rudy Bear. [[advertising from the hall]] Who's got the procedure? Oh, I'm sorry. Here you go, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u146	Yes, Madam President, please. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please direct the debate as necessary. [[…]] Please also warn this Secretary of State not to explain matters that do not concern this particular law. I don't care what any of the ministers worked in what previous government. Don't let him explain this nonsense to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you for your proposal, but I think Mr Kangler has answered his questions. Mr. Rudy Bear has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President. The answer to the Secretary of State would only be that, as he speaks of various insinuations, as soon as the word is applied to the current government, it is also, of course, pure fiction and pure insinuation, as the interior minister called after the police. I will not now remind you of the functioning of the policy or internal minister and of you on your own on the relationship of the Ministry-Leading of the Police. Because, given what is happening in the police, of course, it is clear to everyone in the country that the top of the police has long been, or practically, since the first moment that government took power, politicized and that the top of the police is completely subordinate to politics. But when you keep talking about these OKC reports. You worked for the police, didn't you? You know what these OKC reports look like. I know, too. As director of the municipal administration, I also received them and they are all received through Slovenia. There's nothing in there. There's no personal data in there, there's: there was a car accident, there were two fights in that inn, and there was an apple rapping next door. That's in those OKC reports. In fact, I find it interesting that all the ministers before the current Minister of the Interior have received these reports from the OCC, not entirely interesting, and they have not even read them, why they have taken them away from the current minister. Also as banal reports as OKC reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, I don't think that was a replica. The replica has Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u150	I have a replica. I'll be very short. Mr. Kangler, when you step on your tail, you squeal. Mr. Hoys just walked into the Occ. He didn't even need to be called. He just showed up. In short, let's stop fooling around. As a fellow bear said, these are some of your insinuations, when you do not have any other argument left, you start tumbling, knitting and pointing fingers at others. But I explained it earlier, and you didn't understand. I was talking about a coincidence: May 17th, July 23rd, August 23rd, if I'm not mistaken, Kredarica and then September 1st. I'm asking you nicely, because people listen, they watch, and they can count one plus one.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I don't think it was a replica, either. Nataša Sukić has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. In view of this gruesome debate here, I will start again, as I intended, asking myself first whether the SDS was not always the one who warned and excited about how terrible the backlogs we have, how slow the courts are. Well, now you're going to stick them with xy completely unnecessary things that will come from a legitimate verbal delinquency. Then let me borrow a quote. “The authority that is not of the people and does not work for the people is afraid of the people. Verbal delinquency is a form of normative defence of totalitarianism at the legal level that serves to protect the institutions of power. It is in direct conflict with democracy, with the rule of the people, so once the Socialist Republic of Slovenia as part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was not part of the democratic world « Respected! [[…]] Under these two key criteria, one of them was that there were no free multilateral elections. Well, we still have them, so I hope we still have them, given how things are going. And the second was the article of the 133rd Penal Code of the former State. Well, what are we witnessing today? Introduction of modern Article 133! But I'm not just going to be talking about Article 133, and I'm really going to be talking about this article in this code that has declared everything else. Let me quickly sum it up again, because there are still a lot of other horrible things in this law that you don't really focus on, a respected colleague and a colleague. I already warned them in my opening remarks today. My colleague also warned me. Once again, there will be more criminalization of homeless people, sanctions will be imposed on people who do not have a home, but who will be guilty because they do not have a home. After that, higher fines will be allowed to take place on a rapid basis. So far it can only happen in two cases, now it can happen in all cases. Are you going to say that this is not an unjustified increase in repression? Furthermore, the officers will be given new powers. Editors who do not have such qualifications as cops who are not so trained and who have no control over their work will be able to do more and more things. If these are not all elements of increasing repression — then what are they? We are well aware that legislation should work in a protective manner in order to include a bunch of guards, rules, some guidance for action, in order to protect citizens and citizens, but not to give freely more and more powers to the officers on the one hand, and on the other hand you have come to your article introducing a verbal delicacy that is so confused and vaguely stated that it is not at all clear how, in practice, what will be done or will not be done with it. I mean, it's gonna be okay, and that's what you guys are doing. All of a sudden, everything is arbitrary and actually dependent on some individual judgements. Is this some serious legal order in some serious democratic country? I don't think so. I don't know what you're dealing with with this state of yours, with your introduction of the police state. What do you want? God-fearing, terrified, humiliated citizens and citizens, all shaking in front of you? What do you want? Really, I'm curious! And here you are to know how this now applies to everyone. Once again, political class or members of the political class, political class representatives often have a policeman with them. Like, when you step outside the National Assembly, there's a police out there to protect you. Does an ordinary citizen or a citizen of this police officer have a hand in it? What are you doing?? This article, a verbal delinquent, is, of course, written on the skin of a political elite, a political class and me personally what I had heard in the sky earlier in the screeching stories of Members and Members on the right hand side, how the poor, how the hostages of angry citizens, which you will – by the way – only make even more angry by this law. I think so! If you think you're going to get close to the people, you're wrong. By this you rise above the people and mock the people after all, and take away the constitutional right to freedom of speech as enshrined in the Constitution. That's why this marriage will go to constitutional review, oh yes, don't worry! Well, whatever. I've heard these dreadfully moving tales of how Members and Members are at risk from the people, haven't I? And that the hostages of this angry people. You know what, I will be the hostage of this terrible law if it is voted, because unfortunately, as a member of this moment, I belong to a political class, and so I will be the hostage of this misery, which you will legalize; the misery it is called, we have risen above the people. It's not just that it's scary that in 2021 we're talking about things like verbal delinquency, which you've been most upset about and Crotovated in the SDS, how terrible it was in the former country. But isn't it awful now or what? Or do you think that because it's more perfect because we're in 2021, that's great now. Now we'll be glad that you can get us out of the juries! By grace, of course, because we do not know exactly when and how; just as you will think. You're gonna take someone's hand and you're gonna take it down, aren't you? Please, this law is not only completely orberal, it's a scandal, literally what you're doing. It is so shameful and so mocking of the people that you do not wonder that the people remember this, and do not be surprised that the people are becoming ever more angry. And after this has been voted out, it's only gonna get even more angry. So, my dears, I will not support this horror and this shame and this scandal. What's more, I'm going to make sure that the marriage goes to constitutional review, and I'm going to fight to use all the mechanisms to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative, Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you did not surprise me with your performance. You didn't surprise me with your performance. [[advertising from the hall]] I have to answer that question. You're worried about how the guards are going to do the job they were told to do. Three tasks under this law, if adopted, will be given to the editors: to monitor noise, to stay overnight and to collect voluntary contributions. If the law is adopted, as was the Weapons Act, the Ministry of the Interior organises training. You're looking at me, talking about SDS. I'm Secretary of State, I'm not a member of the SDS, but I'm the President of the New People's Party. And what does SDS have to do with this marriage? We're talking about government law. [[advertising from the hall]] And you fight, you worry, just as you fight every Friday for illegal protests, which do not have the authority's permission, you encourage them. I don't know if that's democratic. It's democratic. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It is democratic that everyone has the right to protest publicly in accordance with the applicable law. And you think it's a culture, if you label people, that it's a culture, if you put a Hitlerese cross on a state institution. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's what you say. On several occasions, you and your colleagues were also observed cycling. Apparently, you have a lot of time to be able to cyclists, but unlike those who have to work every day, they earn their wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Replica, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u156	Yeah, look, Secretary General, I really like cycling, it's healthy for the body. A healthy spirit in a healthy body, I must tell you. But as for the sick body of democracy, I must say that it is also recommended that this body begin to heal slowly; to heal from things and diseases or viruses that are introduced into this society by your hostility and your renaissism. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you not to use this session to work for your client because I don't care what customer you come from. For me, you are the Secretary of State here, and I ask you to answer matters concerning this law, which, as it were, is a scandal and a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you. You know, I'm in a lot of pain, and I'm not used to being a secretary of state acting like this to Members, who are elected representatives of the people. Please, Mr. Kangler, I don't care which party you're defending. You are here at work and you certainly have no right to bully Tina Heferle, colleague Sukič, but to answer questions because the government is responsible to Parliament and you are a servant of this government. And please stop with that tone, because I do not allow it, I do not allow it as an elected Member, but please give an argument about this law when we ask you a question. [[advertising from the hall]] And I ask that he does not keep his word and that he replicates with every Member. Where's that in the rules of procedure? Stick to the rules of procedure, because otherwise we're all going to Butale here. Please, let's keep at least that much basic dignity and stick to the rules of procedure. And let the Secretary-General of the Government do what he's here for. However, he certainly has no right to answer each Member individually. Please take note of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. But look, I don't think this was a procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] The representative of the government, however, merely answered the questions raised. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Natasha Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u160	Presidents, please direct this meeting in accordance with the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure. The Secretary of State is not here to discuss this with Members. He is here to answer strictly the questions, not to get rid of and accuse Members. Like, he knew exactly what I was thinking before. Well, it's called individual judgment, and that's the law we have before us, where cops can judge what they mean individually. And that's the problem! I'm sorry you can't see what the problem is. It's a disaster you can't see what the problem is. He has nothing to discuss, what I think, because so far you probably don't have a detector to read my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, but I think the government representative just answered some questions. [[advertising from the hall]] The representative of the government has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I have received the word of both honourable Members of the Left to answer you. Here I write down what some Members say. And I was answering you. You were looking at me, MP, and talking about SDS. I'm not a member of the SDS. I told you I'm the president of the New Slovenian People's Party. I'm the Secretary of State in the Government or the Ministry of the Interior. With all due respect to you, Mrs Violeta, I know exactly what I can say in this room, what I can't say. I've been sitting here for 15 years. You know, I'm not going to be insulting. You had no idea at the time that you would be a member of Parliament when we were here. But we were a little more respectful of different thinkers than you were in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u163	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please let us calm down and devote ourselves to the content. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Natasha Sukich. Mr. Siter, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, Madam Vice-President, to justify where in the Rules of Procedure it is recorded, in which category this exercise of the Secretary of State fits, this discreditation, the personal discreditation of the Member, in which he said he had no idea, while he was already a veteran here. We will not now discuss career politics at this point, but both Members or Natasa Sukić raised clear questions concerning the specific points of this law, from the powers of directors, she mentioned the homeless, the powers of the police and so on. The Secretary of State hasn't replied to anything. Therefore, please remind him to answer the specific substantive questions raised in the debate to Members and Members. Otherwise, he has no reason to sit here, he can join Mr. Hoys in Portorož.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, once again, I ask you to be patient. The topic on the agenda is sensitive and should also be properly discussed and informed. Natasha Sukich, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u166	Yeah, I got a replica. But now I will, in order to make life easier for our Secretary of State, who likes to jump all over every exercise of us, Members and Members, and I will really ask him a question. I would like to know where the virtual world or the Twitter world of our prime minister or your Minister Hojs belongs. I would like to know whether you will be ingrained too, because you are launching the virtual reality shoes, which is located in Slovenia, and I would like to know whether the representatives of the political class or the power elites will be ingrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. That was the question. That wasn't a replica. Representative of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u168	Well, of course it's a simple answer. Article 4 speaks of a public place, or perhaps the President of the Government or Minister Aleš Hojs write yours at home in a private facility. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting on my behalf, Mr. Secretary of State! Let me first say that in the SAB we believe that inappropriate behaviour is already properly regulated in Slovenian legislation and that these changes are not necessary; even more, we do not understand them. We do not understand why such changes could have taken place. Did any judge say that he could not judge, or did any prosecutor say that he could not initiate appropriate proceedings, or did any injured person say that he could not guarantee his legal certainty? No, no, no. The police came and said they couldn't work. Moreover, it has apparently proposed such an amendment that a qualified form of offence relating to misconduct in relation to an official in an official business is replaced by a form of offence committed in relation to an individual or group. So, if he wants to protect officials and expose officials, of course, such a change is one step back. On the other hand, the possibility of one individual assessment is opened on the basis of unclear legislation on the punishment of individuals. Of course it's not a good trip. Comrade Baković said well that people have different perceptions or perceptions of insults and that if an official has to initiate the procedure on official duty, the injured person has no right to stop. This is not a good journey in a democratic society. And that's why we can't do it in the SAB and we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Whenever we think the government can't go any lower with its proposals, it twists a hole into a new bottom. And today's proposal really goes beyond all the limits of what's likely. With such ministers, and – I'm sorry – I don't want to be insulting – the secretaries really worry me about what is unworthy of you. I'm afraid everything is going to go in the direction of the Cadillac sues you, the Cadillac judges you. When I think we have seen everything, you continue to go ahead and shamelessly introduce new and new repressive measures that will certainly sanction anyone who will not please you or who dares to criticize your actions. This same government, which constantly opposes lazy people, pigs, prostitutes, zombies, sends people to a psychiatric hospital and has a full mouth on the other hand about freedom of expression, and now I want to censor everything that doesn't suit it. That's how the STA censored, because he was saying and writing the wrong words, and she's going to suffer to the end, and RTV, because he's also saying the wrong words, and in the National Assembly, we have an ethical code, so called, where you can't call thieves. On the other hand, we can witness such escapades of hate speech as Ambassador Polnar had earlier to take your breath. In short, on the other hand, party media and portals that spread lies, hatred, incitement. While I'm saying this, let's say it's already published in Novi24 with the ugliest photos of what we do. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u173	I'm sorry, Member. Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you for warning them. Obviously, my debate is not milosonous to your ears, but in the temple of democracy you should also hear those you do not agree with. I don't listen to you either, you know, but I do. You're spreading all the time the repression and increase of the police state. Then you wonder if people are angry. You know, two hours ago, I was out, and one of the people actually jumped on me and said I was going to be decapitated pretty soon. And I'm not part of your elite. And I was wondering why he was so mad at me. And he's angry because he doesn't even know what the government is, what the National Assembly is doing, what the State Council is doing. But the government, by adopting these crazy, irrational decisions at some letter-based night sessions, has put people on edge and into despair. Nobody knows what's true anymore. Schoolchildren don't know when, where, where they're going, people who come to work don't know what test is valid, what today can do, what tomorrow can do. You know, people are sick of it. On the other hand, I have never been in history – and I have been in the world for a long time, you know – I have not experienced so much police repression, pendes, tear gas, helicopters. And then allow yourself the Perich – and I will not put any adjectives with them, because better not because I will be worthy – to lie. And that, respected and respected, is also the subject of an ethical code. To lie that the Members of the Left were not here. Mr. Kangler, I'm speaking. Please, don't bother me! Or go out and talk. I was sitting there as chairman, and I was conducting a meeting where we were defending architects from the new so-called Hojs anti-architectural law. My last words at 8:40, when helicopters circled over our heads for about two hours, and when it was noisy, they were: “I hereby conclude the meeting of the Committee on Culture and wish you a happy journey home.” All members of the Left who belong to the Infrastructure and Culture Committees have sat here. Lying, when we have recordings and magnetograms, is unacceptable and unworthy and should be most strongly condemned by ethical code or anything. I'm talking about double standards here. What is arbitrarily unworthy of you? You see, it's extremely unworthy of me. And a party of political converts, such as the SDS — and if you are not a member of the SDS — will not be sorely offended now — has kept talking about how terrible the former country was and how the one party system was, and we keep hearing about Article 133 about the cult of personality. And this is what they are building now, from the cult of personality to the introduction of Article 133. But you know, when it comes to your freedom, it's different, isn't it? But when it comes to freedom for us, when we warned that the President of the Government was using inappropriate and hateful speech, when he insulted journalists, women, the LGBT community, refugees, you referred to freedom of speech. You know, the same agenda of the right is all over Europe, and we have heard about freedom of speech at certain conferences there, but in Slovenia freedom of speech will be suspended for some time. You know, the late Kramberger described exactly such, exactly such, and he paid for it with his life! Earlier in one debate, I said, yes, and why didn't you stop the riots if all the peace-loving protestors were on Wednesday and only some groups were organised to break up. Remember, Friday's protests you're reading to us and they're completely legitimate, constitutional and so on, then Jenul called on the police to remove Hojs' pearls, provocations, yellow vests and neo-Nazis so that the protest could continue peacefully. The cops did it. And what did Hoys say? He demanded an investigation. This isn't where Jenula was this Wednesday. They were other organizers, and they didn't. Poor cops don't even know how to react so you don't bully them. And it's a complete lie, Mr. Kangler, that the police demanded this marriage if I heard what you just said. The police union wrote it, and I'll just read you one sentence. “We report to the political authorities that we are becoming more than obvious victims of her irrational and provocative opinions and opinions. That is why we call on her to express her views and opinions with patience, rationality and respect for the diversity of our citizens and citizens. Otherwise, it contributes to the threat of internal security in the country and to the harm of police and police officers. Therefore, let it not play with our rights, stop with human resources exhaustion, political pressures, resentment and resentment and act in a state-of-the-art manner.” Please, this is a letter from the police union. And we're on the side of the police and their union and their rights. You know, not only are the hostages of this authoritarian authority, but we are also the hostages of the people, the whole people of the Republic of Slovenia. We will by no means allow this and we will fight to the end that your authoritarian aspirations and this repression and the police state will not come to full effect, because, you know, even the European Court of Human Rights, constitutional judgment will not go through. The European Court of Human Rights has always stressed that exposed authorities must have greater tolerance and acceptability for attacks on themselves and criticism. What you are doing is completely inconsistent with the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights. And I'm just gonna touch it and I'm gonna take it slow, which is earlier, my colleague Natasha's principle. Here you also refer to as criminal begging in a public place and the editors will even have powers. I mean, poor guys, what they're gonna have to do. Staying in a public place — where should those who have been put to the test by such policies sleep? We've been looking at 150 euros in rations, where people have literally tied themselves to their houses. Many have become homeless. Writing by facilities, camping – also authorized by editors. And the promotion of impatience. I like this very much, because in promoting intolerance, I hope that you will first look at the media that are in the service of this government, and all the portals, and look at where intolerance is promoted daily and first shoot at your doorstep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative, Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, the Member of Parliament will be insulted if I answer her and pour some pure wine. / adverts from benches/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u177	Siter, don't interrupt the speaker when he's talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u178	Otherwise, it's typical for members of the Left to get upset quickly if you tell them you'll answer them. Look, the 150-euro deployment was in the previous government, in the one you supported, and in that government that you destroyed. You already know what constitutional judgment will be like today, Member of Parliament. I wouldn't dare to predict that. What does this tell you about the Constitutional Court if you know what the constitutional judgment will be today? / adverts from benches/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u179	Dear colleagues, you are also subject to the rules of procedure and do not disturb the speaker when he speaks [[…]] Excuse me, Mr. Kangler, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u180	To talk about the police union Yes, we have two police unions; one is the Police Union of Slovenia and the other is the Police Union; one is led by Cvetko and one by Mr Mlekuž. [[…]] As a government negotiator with a police union, the PSS, with Mr. Flower, did everything for Slovenian police officers to ensure that border police officers, as long as you are here in the National Assembly, will receive 150 gross euros each month, police officers on the street 140 euros gross every month, executive personnel 130, technical personnel supporting the police, including cleaners, administrators, guns, and 100 euros each month. The other police union you're talking about, which you're quoting, is kind of insulted and looking for media attention. And probably political support, given that you, as Ambassador of the Left, quoted them. That's the truth. Mr. Hoys never introduced the protest, and when you mentioned the yellow vests, the control over the procedure. However, internal control, internal control, was initiated. The Director of Police has the right to trigger an actual situation and a picture. What's the problem? You're criticizing this government. You have criticised this government – okay, democratically. Only if you weren't here would we still have the government of Marjan Sarca today. On the one hand, you supported her, and on the other hand, you also demolished her from the Left. Why don't you tell the Slovenian people? [[adverts from benches]] Not only did you bring it down. All together from the coalition you threw the rifle into the corn and left Slovenians and Slovenian citizens stranded. And this government bears responsibility and the results are here. But it is true that this pains you in the opposition. But you have every right to protest, freedom of speech, and I do not deny all this. [[advertising from the hall]] If you break it, the cop will cash you in. Given that you deserve well, why would you, an MEP, be an exception to an ordinary citizen? We are all equal before the law, and we must be equal in accordance with the Constitution and everyone else. But you'd obviously like to have the privilege of not having your marriages in place. What you're saying. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u181	Dear Member, I ask you to follow the rules of procedure as well. If someone says you don't mind him. Here you go, Natasha Sukich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u182	Can you please stop, Secretary of State, all the time talking about what I think because you have no idea what I'm thinking. Believe me, you have no idea what I'm thinking. That's one thing. Second thing. I'm not looking for any privileges for myself, so don't push me. Your minister is looking for a privilege for himself, who will continue to say in the private Twitter field that we are citizens of swine, but he will not pay a jury for it, even though he has a better salary than me. So I ask you kindly, distinguished Secretary of State, when you do so much good for the people, it is strange that the people are angry and angry, but of course, you do such good things that you will give us every moment of verbal delinquency. So, thank you very much, we really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u184	Yeah, it's very rude of you to talk here about the salaries and allowances of some police personnel, that's unworthy. It's even more unworthy of you to be able to fight and share two unions that are real and that are not. It's unacceptable to do this if you're a statesman and you're running some kind of facility. What will be the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, but it is entirely easy to predict that you are violating human rights, the European Directive and the Constitution. And it's clear that this can't go. The reasons why the government has been overthrown will not be discussed today, because people know and we know a lot, so I will not start this topic because it is not on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Secretary of State is very fond of this word “gun in corn”. And I'm going to say that those rifles of yours in the corn, those rifles of yours couldn't be thrown into the corn because the corn was laid. In fact, since autumn 2019, two parties from the coalition led by Marjan Sarec have been inflamed in that corn in agreement with the SDS party already toppled the government. So at the time that Marjan Sarec resigned, the corn was completely laid down and, of course, there was nothing to throw at it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Bear, I don't think that was a replica. Representative of the Government, Franz Kangler, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u188	Dear President, nothing wrong with Mr Bear's response. We know who threw the rifle into the corn in 1991, but who held the gun until the last minute. This is painful for some who have nostalgia. And it doesn't fly on you, Mr. Bear, God forbid. This is painful for some who have nostalgia in the Balkans. Ladies [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u189	Dear Mr. Kangler, please, please, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u190	Yes, Mrs. Sukich, I must answer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u191	Don't bother the speaker. [[…]] I'll give you a replica. Here you go, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u192	I don't see what you're thinking, I don't see what you're thinking. But you are here when I spoke loud and clear: "I too will be punished by a policeman for a thousand euros." I heard you clearly and loudly here, so I told you that because you're not an exception, you're not an exception, we're all the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u193	The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u194	Certainly, Madam Secretary of State, I certainly don't want to be an exception. Why did I say that? You have previously suggested in your implementation that I have cycled in protests and that you know this. That means you know where I'm riding, when I'm cycling, how much I'm cycling, and so on. Next thing you know, when you're talking and you're squirming around here, when someone held a gun in their hands, how was World War II? Who fought the gun and who didn't fight the gun? If that's how you want to go back to history. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u196	You know, this is where you challenged me about World War II. I respect all those partisans who fought against fascism. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u197	Dear Mr Kangler, I ask you to talk and answer about the content and the agenda, not the Second World War.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u198	I'm in charge of the ladies. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u199	I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u200	I just figure it out. I respect all the partisans who fought against fascism, but the problem was the partisans who fought against communism, too, great problems. Two days ago, just look at an old partisan who spoke publicly about what was going on after the war. It would be difficult for me to discuss here the content of his statement on women and what had happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. He's got Mark Bandelli's word. Here you go, Marco.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you, Chairman. No offense, but now we've been witnessing for 10 minutes, some polemics, throwing pollen under our feet. I mean, there's no such thing as an inappropriate debate that's horrible. My friend Kangler, you and I were the mayor, and we're friends, and you know that we have a slightly different view of the whole situation because you're not the mayor of the left or the right, but you're the mayor of everyone. Isn't it? That's it. And then you have and you can probably get a slightly different view of the situation that is. But the facts today, why we're here now. The government has decided, let's be honest, the government has made a decision; not at the suggestion of the cops, on a proposal I don't know who or what it is. The government has decided to punish people. That's the point. The government has decided to punish people, I don't know if they're going to complain if they're going to fight, if they're going to yell, or if they're going to mistreat the official. This was the purpose from the beginning; from the beginning to the Member of State, the Councilman, the member of the Government and all those people who belong inside, the judges or his fellowman — I don’t know why, what’s the difference, whether his neighbor or his neighbor, what’s the difference here? Now that he's close to the judge, he's more important than a neighbor. Why do you have to write that in your marriage? He's a member of the government. Member of the Government – What does a member of the Government mean? A member of the government, and then it's so widespread, you don't know exactly who all the members of the government are. All you can do is focus on the ministers, and state secretaries, assistants, deputies. Who comes in? [[…]] It's so inconvenient, it's really amazing. That's what makes me think a little bit. But, isn't it true if this is detected by an authorized official at the scene of the violation? So, you can send in three where you say home, someone, and if a cop doesn't hear it, it doesn't work. That's it. So, a cop has to be there, and you have to pull a cop's hand and say, "Policeman, did you hear that, this guy insulted me because I'm a public person, and now I want you to write a warrant and punish him. Now, if you get a cop on your side, he can make it up. Is that right? We know it's happening, and that's what's happening. With all due respect. I know. I have a lot of friends of cops, really, we have full fillings, very good ones. But that's how it happened. History has already shown this when we were looking for the minister we were looking for to make mistakes and then we saw how it ended. So we always have to start with honesty being the first thing and I don't doubt it. God forbid we start doubting that. I'm not just talking about police officers, judges, I'm talking about all of them together, including Members of Parliament, including State Secretaries. It's about honesty. This thing comes out of here. You must understand one thing. Dear Secretary of State, both of whom are here today. You want to do literally one thing with this law: silence the nation. That's the point! You want to silence the people. Now you're talking about left-handed fascism, the nonstop expression that's so pig-like to me, the pig-like expression that you make up, not us. What is left-handed fascism? Where did you hear that? Where did you get that look from? There are fascists and they are! And left fascists, I don't know where, because Janša just said that expression, you all use it, you use it all the time. Everywhere. But there is an ideology of fascism. And Fascism, the first thing he did, silenced the nation. Do you understand me or not? And what is this marriage other than a fascist law to silence the nation? I'm talking about the law. I'm not talking about people. About the system. Dude, do you understand me or not? It's not right. You're looking for some kind of protection here because you're insulted, let's face it, you're offended because the nation has a suitcase full of everything, because probably with this system that you rule, which is not right, because otherwise there wouldn't be so many protests, there wouldn't be so much disagreement. It's obviously something that doesn't work in this country. And now that you've grown tired of listening to all these people who honestly express their disagreements, they'd be silenced. And here's the point. And you can't afford that because it's wrong. Dude, it's not right, but you understand. That's the point. What's my opinion, my personal opinion, I'll talk about it. This is scandalous, as the lady has said, and I agree. It's arrogant, it's wrong. Now you're going to say it's not true, but it all started right on Triglav. That's where it started, let's be honest. Don't say it's happened before. You could, probably, it was a drop that went over the edge and then you said something had to be done, and here we have to shut the fuck up. That was the point. I'll say something. What would you like to accomplish with that? It's a purely repressive system. Two-way, watch out! Do you understand me, Kangler? Two-way. So today, you are the government that is applying these things, and tomorrow, there will be others in the government who will apply the same things. Would that be the right time for you to think so? Is this thing clear? We're doing something that's not right for our people. One violence, as you now give it by this law — because it is violence — causes only another violence. Nothing else. Well, it's physics, you know, it's not a word, it's pure physics. And because it was you who protested, who probably forgot that you were protesting around every corner, that you were doing meetings around every corner in 2012, when the dice were throwing in parliament – who was the person who threw the dice into parliament? Member of SDS! I'll show you pictures, I've got it right here. I won't, because I don't have time, because it's totally out of the question, because you know, Secretary of State, that's true. But let's leave it alone. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll send you a picture, because I can give it to you, no problem. But it doesn't matter, that's what I'm talking about. We're here for one thing that we shouldn't even be here. We're here for something that's wrong with us. It's not right. That's not right. Humanly speaking, it's wrong. Now, what are we doing here? People spit on us, they don't spit physically, they spit verbally, and whatever it takes, they insult us and say that, but we're guilty sometimes. We're on our own. Let's make some mea culpa, that's all. And we must earn the respect of the people ourselves. Alone, no one else. Not the left, the right! Do you know what's going on now? Now we have four factions here. She's already become, and because of you, she's become left, she's become right, they've become vaccines and non-vaccinators. Four. It wasn't enough for two. We're four now. Everyone against everything. Everyone against everything. Where do we go like this? Is this the way and the system of conduct? Did you ask yourself why we came to this point today? Why are we at this point today? I'd ask myself, and I'd probably say we're really missing something. We can miss something, too. It's human. None of them say human. But what do we want to do? Keep the people quiet. Repressively silence the nation, as it was in 1923, 1924, when the fascists began. And I think you're a long way from being. I hope, I hope, and I want to think about it in that sense, and I do. I don't think we're gonna repeat history a hundred years ago. But all the clues show that this path begins, and that's how it started then. One fool who insults you will always get you. Always. It's perfectly normal. And if we're fighting over politics, I always said I'd never fight for politics in my life, and then I'm right in there where it's all about. Yeah, no. And I was sure that because of politics I would not fight, and it was also a war. You know, the Secretary of State — both of you here — we do nothing else with this law than to give the police the arbitral power to decide our fate. That's all. Because a cop can or will not make a decision, he'll become a judge. At this point, he's going to be a judge, because he's going to say, and he's going to judge whether you're a criminal or not, but we're talking about thousands of euros. That's three pensions for some poor guy. Are we aware of that? Because here it was the way to do punishments always times fifteen, like those that are normal. Because of this, the Secretary-General, now with all due respect, I can do with good purpose or what needs to be done, but this is not a good purpose, believe me, because I see a human matter here. It's not a good purpose. No, I'm really sorry. Here, at this stage, I have to say that this is not what our client would have wanted. I mean, and I'm sure it's also totally lame, it's unnecessary, it's inappropriate, and it's generally harmful to everyone. That is, when it's harmful to everything I said before, it's a two-way thing, it's one thing that can't be accepted in the National Assembly and I won't support it because of this law. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word Primoz Siter has to prepare himself for the Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, colleagues. The Secretary of State himself was not surprised when I saw the draft of this marriage. [[…]] I think it's such a logical next step to what I've seen this year and a half, the bad two years on behalf of the government and its management of the repressive apparatus. Absolutely nothing surprising, nothing that wouldn't fit in the other context of this government's operation. Of course, there is a broader context here, asking what kind of country this government wants, and in what way a repressive apparatus with police and legislation, such as the one we have on the table today, plays a role here. Now, what kind of police this current government wants in this country, I think it's perfectly clear to all of us that we saw in the case of Breznik, when your secretary's colleague, I don't know, I think last year, some year, the vehicles were guilty, the police stopped him and then Minister Hojs just pointed his finger at the police officers who ran this procedure and checked their work. We saw how, in the event of the June celebration in Prešeren Square, when the police removed the neo-Nazis from the otherwise peaceful assembly, the police director again pointed to the neo-Nazis, not the neo-Nazis, but the police who acted. And it is said, of course, at Slovenian police stations, that security at work or safety at the maintenance of employment in police officers is somewhat quietly conditioned by the agreement of this government or that police officers are at the risk of expressing their disagreement with such police management or not, in order to maintain or maintain their jobs. So this hygiene in the police department is questionable. You can, secretary, of course, cross there now, but I have my own personal experience as a protestor. When I was also laying my feet, the police got the command not to treat me because I was a political official while others were being punished. A similar thing happened to me on two occasions. Of course, I am also concerned when the law gives an arbitrary decision to the policeman, what he will do now, he will, of his own free will, judge how he will deal with the current situation. But when I see that the cops are confused, under pressure that they don't know what to do or what not to do. A police officer who didn't gloat at me had to call his superior, be on the phone with him for 10 minutes, and then he decided to let me protest. A man who is not an elected Member, who has done the same thing, has laid the same piece of paper on the ground and has been punished. This is the police, under your leadership, under the leadership of Minister Hoys. And in this light, of course, this law is no surprise. This law builds power of power with increasing powers and, on the other hand, breaks the public, which is of course also of great interest to you. However, I would respond very briefly, for as long as I have time left, to some of the things that have been said either by the coalition MPs or, Mr Kangler, you. One of the Members said what was wrong with sanctioning insults and insults due to political beliefs. How about now? Now? After all coaches, chauffeurs, polytheists, zombies, gays, Zlatko and Jenul, and by the readers of the Constitution, is it all of a sudden necessary to pay attention to resentment and resentment over political beliefs? Ask these people how the country has seen them so far because of their political beliefs. That's how I join someone. [[…]] Oh, or that! Oh, Mr. Kangler, I almost forgot! We're all the same before the law, you said. This one was pretty fun. We are so much the same before the law that when the European institutions were considering how much and how much resources to help and recover us, they were thinking about putting us in that group of Poland and Hungary, in which they asked themselves if the aid would be conditioned by respect for the rule of law. We're so alike. Not to mention masks on the shore of Kolpa and so on and 800 euros for a misdemeanor for a family that ate croissant. That's how I join all the critics so far. This marriage is fascist, unconstitutional, unfair and arrogant. Of course, I see the solution in the fact that at least this controversial article is deleted or that the whole law falls, that an investigator led by a coalition is doing its job of political interference with the work of the police. So if the government gave up, it would be an ultimate solution anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u206	Good-bye to all of you! After a very interesting session, I will make sure that I am a little longer, but believe me, it will be very interesting. Violet would do well, too, if she waited a little longer, because there's going to be a lot of things that she should know, and she obviously doesn't know. First. Regarding the legal position today, it has been said that this needs to be clarified. As far as the real deal is concerned, the matter is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. Although I'm quoting, I think the quote is more than accurate. Everyone has the right to personal dignity and security at any time, anywhere. And that is why it was necessary to adopt this amendment that we adopted on the committee, and that is why this amendment is important. I would even be happy if you would keep your word to those on the committee who shouted that this would then be the subject of a referendum, because this would be a referendum on the method of street violence. Who is in favour and therefore opposes the increase in the penalty for such cases and who opposes it. Who believes that respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia must be respected, respected, respected and that people have the right to live in security. Previously, she said, we are reading the Constitution, a representative of that party who has written anti-constitutional emphasis on advocating the decommissioning of representative democracy and so on. You know how this works. We also had a special session on this. So much for respect for constitutionality on the part of those who have much to say at this time. In a way, it's been a beautiful day for all of this modern left-wing misery. Look, when it comes to animals, it was the emphasis that if someone commits violence, yells at an animal, rips it off, God forbid to spit on it, that's the harshest punishment, years of imprisonment, every punishment is too low. That's how this debate went about. But when it comes to people, ladies and gentlemen, on the same side – yes, no, that is a disproportionate and unacceptable high penalty of 500 to thousands. Get out of here! So we're going to protect the animal, but you can do whatever you want with a human being. It's modern left-wing. Well, yeah, it really is, but it's nice that you showed it in such a way that people can finally see it and understand what it's really about. Now let's move on to how we ended up at this point. There's nothing here that would have happened yesterday. A year and a half, a year and a half, ladies and gentlemen, we have smokers who smoke politically. They call it protest, and in fact it's street violence and hooliganism because they just flew out of power. And they encourage people to break the law, to break the rules, to endanger each other, everything in the voice of the struggle for power. Everything goes under the red stars, everything goes under the signs of the Left. Well, this picture is very interesting because there is one Mr Koprivc on it who claimed that he was not present at these protests. Another one's none, but it's twice, they said. [[…]] Well, then how did things progress? Then we've got the next step right here. Here are the Antifa flags, and again, of course, a bunch of red stars and all the rest of the confusion from totalitarian regimes, and here we see already aggressive performance. You see something here, too. Well, then there were the first waves of violence we witnessed last fall. Everything was done under the red stars, under the flags of Antipheus, the signs of Antipheus, the veiled individuals — typical of Antiphos. And then when it's said that it's a method of street violence, I'm talking about a method, and it's a left-wing fascism, but some feel terribly offended. I didn't say it was like that to anyone, but the method, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. And don't talk about what was said before, that the left fascism is an expression that was invented in Slovenia. The expression left-handed fascism uses many authors around the world today. Just check if you don't believe me, and I can lend you another book and read it. And it wasn't invented a few days or a few months ago, but it's been in existence for a long time. Actually, it's pleonazam. Now a little school, ladies and gentlemen, about totalitarianism. In fact, you must first know that all totalitarianism, without exception, is based on the teachings of Karl Marx. When you talk about when you want to sell that you're a socialist, that's the opposite of a Nazi, of course that's not true. It's really the same thing. Now, whoever thinks that's not true, let's have some fun with this, ladies and gentlemen. This is a monument from Nazi Germany, built by Adolf Hitler himself. And it says, "I'm a socialist." Adolf Hitler: “Ich bin Sozialist.” All those who praise socialism, all those who advocate socialism, praise Adolf Hitler. So much that you'll at least know what you're doing. As one famous activist once said, a black activist who said I have a vision. But I have a vision that at last people in this House would have some idea about the things they're discussing. Then we would also know that I am responding to something that was said at the meeting of my committee, where Mrs Sukič, when I warned her that they all had totalitarianism and that they were all left foregone, without exception, roots at Karl Marx, said that I was hallucinating. And when I said he was a racist, she literally talked me out of it. Now let's see what Karl Marx really said. He said that those races that are too weak to bring about a revolution and so forth must go away, that they must be removed and that they must disappear into the revolutionary holocaust. This, ladies and gentlemen, is from a film financed by the money of the European Union. I hope someone doesn't say that someone made it up. Otherwise, copies of this are published at the Polish National Museum. So when we talk about racism, the world's biggest racist was Karl Marx. And whoever jumps around with his shirt even after this House is supporting racism. So much so that at least you'll know who you're doing this, what you're talking about. The saddest part is that Karl Marx among those whom he called the waste of the nations also counted the Slavic nations, including all of us. Such people here in this House boast and refer to them. And if you doubt it, I once read this and the whole left clapped on me. They said we stood for every word because they thought it was their quote. That's actually Adolf Hitler's 1927 speech on May 1st, confirmed, no one's going to deny it. And it starts: “We’re socialists. ” [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Well, now that you've understood where the expression of the left fascism that your colleague Bandelli was previously particularly troubled by, and you understand that there is no other fascism, and there is no other socialism. First, you have to be a socialist so you can be a national socialist; that is, a Nazi. Then you understand how stupid all those statements are, unfortunately even those guys who don't understand this story because of the school system we have, which is full of propaganda instead of facts, instead of teaching these things in schools when they think socialism is the opposite of Nazism. That's the same thing. They're just two faces of one and the same evil. You have to be a socialist first, so you can be a national socialist or an international socialist. It's the same snooze. And what about fascism? Fascism, however, is a corporate derivative of national socialism in fact. All three are left-handed, all three are based on Karl Marx, all three are criminal, and all three are equally repulsive. If anyone else doubts to see this book, which is very amusing, it's just a little, so to speak, it's a book about the first Red Army units. As you can see, they had a pecking cross in the sign. And for those of you who do not know this, because you were not there, 23 this year at a memorial ceremony for the victims of all totalitarian systems, there was a document presented, in 1939, the Socialist International published at the signing of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact a real praise, a celebration of how socialism is well involved in the fight for the world domination of socialism. So much for that. In fact, and please all remember this once and for all, it is not the opposite of socialism-Naziism, but the opposite of Nazism and socialism is a democratic, free system. That's the point we should be talking about today. And this system has to be defended. This system must sometimes be protected by what is called the Ultima Ratio, the last choice, that is to say by tightening the sentence. In a given case, this was also done. Why? Because no one can have the right to harass anyone. And please, here, all the time – even colleagues make this mistake – talks only about officials and so on, even the first proposal was wrong from this point of view in my view. Look, the victims of this harassment, including violence, street violence, were also employed in the National Assembly. That's not what we're talking about. Make sure you don't believe me! The victims of street violence, that is to say left-wing fascism, were ordinary citizens and citizens. Who's the one who did the most? The poor TV cameraman, who was one of the guys who was irritated by all the smokers over the months and months of propaganda through the public media, literally jumped in his back and hurt him badly. Even what happened now, even though now everyone's away from it. Now everyone was just trying to forget how the story started and that they're here really the root of what's going on right now. It's just a development that's been evolving over months and months of scolding, and that's why we've come to this point where we're really at right now. Things might have gotten a little out of hand for some authors, because maybe that's true, maybe that's not true. But it is certainly not true that none of this has anything to do with it. The main organizer of these protests was already agreed at some point, this was written with us on a large scale and everyone was talking about running for the LMŠ in the early elections, after that legendary rifle in the corn. Well, then there was nothing out of it, but the last time she was very interested in the scene was that some of the opposition just before the beginning of the violent part of the riots disappeared from the meeting; which means that someone warned them, which means that they still exist, even though they are all kept secret. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong. This is terribly wrong, because this is the way to get the country into chaos. No one has the right to endanger anyone, no one has the right to use violence, but if it is verbal violence, if it is violence in any form, if you want to, spit on people or if this right has no one and cannot have it and it must be resisted. [[…]] From this point of view, this is a step in the right direction. Very late step, but step in the right direction. If, for example, this had happened to repeal the Constitutional Court, I would personally have this article sharpened even more unknowably than what is now proposed. Because street violence needs to be resisted. This can lead to the consequences we have seen in the United States. Street violence was tolerated there because it hanged itself on some high-ranking floscules about the protection of minorities and I don't know what. In the end, 20 dead, thousands wounded, and billions of dollars in damage. But the saddest thing is, and here I think a lot of people's eyes are glowing in this hall because it was worth it. After all, those who triggered or led the violence from behind took power. A similar scenario is in Germany and elsewhere, and I only hope that Slovenians and Slovenians are smart enough and wise enough to say no to street violence, the method of street violence, which is the left fascism. If there is to be a referendum here and this law that we are enacting today, otherwise, if necessary, and certainly in the elections. Democracy is vulnerable, democracy is vulnerable because it uses the means that are democratic, which are at its disposal, but it has every right to defend itself. No one has the right to harass anyone. Every citizen, every citizen, every person who lives here, has every right to go anywhere on the road, without one group who yells, I don't know, with some good intentions, and I don't know what plans to jump in and harass, insult, spit, or worse. By the way, even spitting during a pandemic can in fact be understood as an attempted murder. Have you ever thought about that? And then this man has the right to resist all means because everyone has the right to self-defense. The right to self-defence is an inalienable human right. We will also have to have this debate in this national assembly, just as I think that because of all the flossules that are just like this, about individuals – I have been on the side of those who today have the most to say about tolerance and tolerance and understanding, disproportionate to the Nazi, fascist and anything else, and I could do a special lecture on this in order to maybe learn something about what I am and what kind of family I have, but I will leave it for the next time. I would say, however, that it is also necessary to amend legislation, legislation so that street violence is limited to the end of its banishment and expulsion because it must not have any, including the theoretical right to exist in a democratic society. And on the other hand, it is also necessary for all that goes beyond the limits of the permissible to receive adequate compensation if you want, even compensation. And if there is no coalition for this, I will suggest the introduction of the penal function of compensation in Slovenia. If in the past years, when my family was even, only in Slovenia, as far as I know, was against the Nazis, I would have already been a billionaire, by the way. But that's not what this is about. It's about protecting people. This is what you all have forgotten — that no one has the right to use such methods. There's talk here, someone wrote something to someone -- horror and fear. Of course that's not right. Ladies and gentlemen, I was the only one who was threatened with murder on the radio. You can check it out. One called the Krka Radio, and he said I had to be slaughtered and my whole family. He spoke in such a very broken Yugoslav language. I'll report it to the police. You know what the police said? Let me get them the evidence. I'm not kidding. It was serious. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a situation in which it is impossible to function normally. The state cannot operate in this way and must not act in this way. People have every right to live safe. As I have started, everyone has the right to either work here or work here, or be a Member, or be anything, or be any citizen or citizen, or just happen to be a stranger in the streets of the Republic of Slovenia, have the right to security, have the right to personal integrity, have the right not to be harassed, that no one touches him, that no one threatens him, that no one cuts him off, that no one spits. And that's what this article is pointing at! This article is therefore necessary because you have led Slovenia to this point in order to take action in this direction. I'm sorry. And not all innocent people today, how no one has anything to do with what's going on. I showed you pictures. What is happening today and why we are adopting this law is the fruit of a year and a half of systematic and planned proliferation, but the sound of power. But no one has the right to use force to vote on power. No one has the right to abuse anyone violently, anyone to insult, anyone to blackmail. This is where you have to say no, and the country has to do its thing. And our job is to make sure that people on the streets feel safe; that mothers will walk peacefully to their children, that the cameramen will do their job without fear, that someone will jump into his back, that the police who are doing their job here will be protected, not that 7 of them will end up in an ER or hospital, because they will be damaged by violent people, such or otherwise, who have imagined that they can do what they want because they have been dispersed by the media for so long. And in the end, people, indeed, believe that if they have good intentions and see themselves as some kind of savior, then they can do what they want. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the way in any of these totalitarianisms I've talked about before. This is really the path to totalitarianism when it comes to setting a goal, but not looking at the means, not respecting the law, not respecting the Constitution, not respecting the rule of law, not respecting human rights. The only right path is democratic; it is said that solutions are being sought and that the legal order is changed if necessary. When it comes to the pursuit of street violence, the law before us is appropriate, good, right, and I will gladly support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have quite a few procedural proposals. First Lady Wilderness Mirnik. Don't you? Then Mr. Siter. Text for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry you just flew in. The vice president was here. I wanted to ask. Well, you're interpreting the rules of procedure, you're interpreting the course of the session. The former Vice-President has already successfully intervened once when the Secretary of State has been declared somewhat substantively. I have no idea where this historical elaborate belonged, which, by the way, forgot about 80 years of important history, along with a bunch of labor and feminism and so on. But okay. It's a simple thing. The law we have on the table is in fact very simple; it calls for the management of police work on behalf of politics. What politics wants to do is to enslave itself to respect. But respect has to be earned, not enslaved. If you steal for 30 years, of course you lose all trust and respect for people. The government is now trying to legitimize this respect, this trust. But, honourable Members, people have these governments so full of suitcases that they spit in her face. And now, some stories, 80 years old, and even misinterpreted, unhistorically interpreted, have nothing to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u209	Mr Siter, have you forgotten to make a procedural proposal or have you not formulated it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u210	My question is that someone is explaining to me how this historical lab of the predecessor fit into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u211	. I have been monitoring the entire debate, including the conduct of my predecessor. Unfortunately, the whole debate is very broad and has come to a number of points from the agenda. Likewise, I do not intend to hurry anything in this place in connection with Mr Grimes' debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u212	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u213	Right away, let me finish, Mr Grimes. However, if we are constructive, the debate will continue mainly on the proposal for a new law, not on anything else. Mr Grimes, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u214	Explain first. I said that this refers to an answer to Mr Bandelli, who did not like the expression of left-wing fascism. And I explained where it came from and that, contrary to what he said, it came from global political science. Some left-wing authors also use it. So much for this side. On the other hand, all of you who are interested in this in more detail on Monday will have an additional interest in coming to the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, where we will deal with the real story with these disturbances. I have confirmed that Minister Hoys will attend. That's it. I'll see you at six and we can continue there without any restrictions at the board meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you so much for this EPP, Mr Grimes. There was no procedural proposal. That's what I believe you know. I propose that we proceed with the debate if there is still interest. Yeah, I can see that. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. We have three reported discussers. The first is Mr Sonibo Knezak, followed by Mrs Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief because I only have three minutes left. This way I will not touch the content of the law directly because my colleague Predrag Baković, who worked in the police for 30 years, explained it sufficiently analytically and also comprehensiblely. In short, there is no need for law because we already have things in order today, except that the current policy wants to protect itself even more with citizens, people will not be allowed to express their opinions – they will be punished for it. [[…]] On the other hand, we place completely different vats for politics. So much for that. Now I don't know, but I don't know if you've heard it, but I don't know if you've heard it, you're probably, like, a Slovenian saying that what you're sowing is what you're reaping. I don't agree with Mr Grims most of the time. With one of his sentences today, however. What is happening is the fruit of one year and a half of this government's work: grumbling, sowing, impatient speech, accounting with different thinkers, pressure on the media, pigs, prostitutes. Is this a political debate, but is this a respectful attitude towards citizens and citizens? I was extremely proud of myself when I was elected, and I listen to Grims without any concern, even though I disagree with him, and I will not be offensive to him. We can't do that. Is that so hard? Please. We've heard a few times today, we're dealing with the consequences today, but no one's dealing with the causes. My colleague, Polnar, said earlier that he had been followed by a traitor. Did he ask about the causes? I don't need this law to protect me. I will still live in my place after the end of my term, even if I am no longer elected. And the second is when you say that the Prime Minister of the Government walks like that among people. Yeah, with a bunch of security guards. Yeah, well, maybe when you have that summer camp, they don't go anywhere else. It's a sad reality today. And a lot of politicians are like that. Statement by this Ministry, I don't know if even the Secretary of State: "The policy of this government is to take care of every citizen." Take great care! It just seems that you will have to replace the country, because despite your extraordinary concern for all citizens, you are supported by 20 percent. You'll have to explain; I don't know, I don't know, they don't appreciate. So you have to go, I don't know, Hungary or anywhere, I don't know. The disaster you've made of this institution, all the escape routes of this country, I'd say you're destroying it this year and a half because of impatience, accounting with other thinkers. I'm ashamed, really, I'm very ashamed to sit here and not know about the basics of cultural conversation. Like I said, Vice President, I won't be long. I had to take a piss because I'm getting a little nervous right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must say that, of course, I also see that this debate has gone through all frameworks and through all the normal dialogue that is appropriate for such a national assembly. Of course, the coalition is to blame for this and to come with such a proposal and with such a law at this time, which we have in Slovenia, with such a mood of people, given all that the Government is doing, of course, it was simply said foolishly and it was clear where and what things this will lead to. But now here to account for decades and decades ago, and what word means and who understands it correctly is without connection. As it has been said, we talk about marriage or we talk specifically about an amendment that is only one. And this amendment is an amendment from the opposition, which brings things back to where they were before you came with this legal advantage from this article, is Article 4. And I will read for people who may not know that even now the current law that you wanted to amend on the committee says, "who is arguing, drinking or misbehaving to an official in an official business is being punished with a fine of 500 to 1,000 euros." So we have some situations, like any normal country, sanctioned. And someone who is in the official business of an official, for example, some person in an administrative unit, an official or also an official, a member of the government or anything, yelling, arguing or misbehaving, is already being punished. Let's get this straight! But since the coalition wanted to, I don't know if it was based on the Kredary or not, some total new statement to give, you went with one such legal snag, that I don't think it's weird that it's a revolt, because it's all at the same time. Second of all, you chose a totally unfortunate moment. With a few ministers who don't have any filter in their language that divides people into pigs and pearls, and with the President of the Government, with his cynical and insulting discourse and everything that belongs to him, you go to correct one such article. The marriage also has a useful solution. Let's say we finally regulate the fines in euros, not tolars. You have to think about how long we've run out of tolars, and now we're saving this. But once again, you put in one article that triggered a total revolt, and that's why the whole marriage, I hope, is going to fall. I wonder who, damn it, even a member of the coalition said that the author obviously got away with things - wrote this legal victory from this article. Because there are so many irregular legal concepts and so many inconsistencies that you cannot include such an article in some normal legal order. For example, it is not clear what this definition of “indecent conduct” is. And how to spread it so it won't be subjectively interpreted. In addition, the law or article unjustifiably extends the field of punishment not only to a specific group of people and, of course, there is unjustified inequality between citizens, but also to their family members and family members. However, some basic legal principles must be respected. And then we'll move on. The following is the “official person in the performance of an official act” and so on. Some concepts that are not even known how they will be used in practice. All experts have, of course, immediately warned that this is a solution which opposes the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights because it establishes an unequal position between citizens and serves as a deterrent to silence criticism. Not only the European Court, but also our Court, but I do not say that I always agree, it has clearly put itself here to the point of criticism. And now you have opened up this field so that with this debate, I mean, the opposite effect will be achieved. That people will understand that even unworthy conduct is permitted because you wanted to punish him so unhappyly and unhappily. In view of the above, it is not possible to determine whether the fines for such behaviour are meant only in person at the time of the official operation of the representative of the State, it is only at the time of his official business or otherwise. It is also unclear whether the infringements are limited to the physical presence of a protected representative of the State and so on in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. Since I don't have time, I'm going to illustrate with one joke that's circulating, it's been published in a number of media outlets, so I'm not going to say anything new, which well shows what the disadvantage of this article is. That's how this joke works. In front of the National Assembly, a citizen yells and screams in the presence of a policeman: John is a fascist, John is a fascist. And when the officer told him, Mr. Jože, you insulted the official, the Prime Minister of the Government, said Mr. Jože, yes, and I didn't say which John. And the officer tells him, stop messing with me, because we know exactly who John is. It is said that this article completely allows the interpretation of the official person, whether this conduct has been unworthy and whether it is criminal. This is, of course, arbitrary and is not acceptable for the legal order and it is not possible to adopt such an article.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues, as many of us as are still here! I think five hours is already under discussion, so I'm going to try to be very short and very exact. In fact, why has there been a specific change to this law? Yeah, it's the Kredary. And the threats that have happened to some Members. Some of this, of course, made stories and made sacrifices, but some of us were quiet. In addition, I will quote in the explanation, because otherwise Mr Kangler will tell me that this is not because of Kredarica, as Mrs Hefferlet explained earlier. That's what it says. The explanation of the proposed supplement states that the reason for the amendment is, I quote, “an escalation of threats to Members and other High Representatives of the State”. And this, of course, as we have said several times now, happened also in that, after that time period, that it is crystal clear that the amendment of this law has only happened and solely because a citizen told the Prime Minister on Kredarica what she had just told him. Even coalition representatives have written down that this change has taken place, or has taken place, in view of the increasing threats to individuals and groups as well. That's clear evidence of why this happened. But don't say that whatever we're lying to, I'm just going to quote Dr. Miha Šepac from the law school of my University of Maribor, which says so. I quote. “When we talk about representatives of the country, freedom of speech must be protected at the highest level just so that we can criticize them. So we can put them in an awkward position. For they represent the authorities and the public must have the right to criticize the authorities. When we lose this right, we no longer have democratic power, but criticism means more than a nice word: I do not agree with you. More serious criticism with strong words, including offensive criticism, must also be legally protected here. This provision, which they want to amend, would be very much an attack on freedom of speech and is certainly unconstitutional from this point of view.” End of story. That is why I say that this law is directly directed at citizens; in one word, what I have said a year and a half ago is a dictatorship in this country. This proposal has a frightening purpose. Why? Because this government is simply not capable of dealing with what people think. And those who don't think like the government are almost 80 percent, if we believe all of these polls that we can read every week or every month. People have become angry, people are angry, and they write it over and over every day, they say, they write it to us, to the Members, even every day. That's the way it is. I'm sorry. Whether or not you like it by the government's representatives. It's a real state. However, the result is only a response to all the insults and all the violence, including the notes that you go over people with your statements, so written on a variety of networks that I don't even begin to explain about those SDS trumpets, but of course on all those written or oral indications that people can read everywhere every day. I don't want to repeat everything that only the President of the Government writes, because I would be too ashamed to actually repeat these things at all. And you know what a paradox is? In fact, the paradox is that 18 people in the government, says the Prime Minister of the Government and ministers, of course coming from the SDS, NSI, those Christian Democrats, and the rest of the SMC, which is left behind, are terrorising this country. They're terrorizing! 18 people terrorize two million people with their illegal decisions, and that's actually scary. Because this government rules with decrees, not laws. Because this government has usurped all branches of government. And that's terrible. And this must be absolutely prevented. That I won't say again that this is a dictatorship. It will be very interesting to look at and read, of course, this new law on infectious diseases, which is now due to be put into procedure. In fact, every day we get Members on this subject before we even get it, because there is not even a new law in the procedure, I don't know how many emails a day we don't want to support it. I'm just gonna repeat what I've already said. I broke my leave because of that law and came here to vote against people being terrorized in this country. Therefore, once again, let me make it clear that in LMŠ we do not want Slovenia to be like this government, this coalition under the leadership of the SDS in cooperation with the SMC and the NSI and, of course, with the support of Jelinčič's SNS and that of Desus, who decided to hold the stand and the minorities. We do not want Slovenia, as you have introduced it, to silence and deal with all criticisms, to silence objective media as well as journalists, to silence civil society and NGOs, to reconcile journalists with prostitutes, to reconcile people with pigs, to punish people with fines ranging from 500 to 1,000 euros, if someone criticises the Prime Minister or ministers or someone from the coalition. That's what we're talking about today. And no, thanks for the company, the society of repression. In Slovenia we want freedom and constitutional laws, but not the decrees that you make in the middle of the night, even during weekends, on Saturday you pass the profession. And what's even more sad is that this same profession that you're hiding away from all the time also makes it clear and loud that she's not suggesting it at all. So, my dears, I urge you to stop doing this, stop terrorizing people in this country and allow us to live freely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Lydia, you have been in the government for more than two years. You know your own way. Now you read SMC and New Slovenia and SDS. Mr Restovalšek made it clear that the government in which you were involved was a government where there was no dialogue, where there was no consensus, where there was no content. And today, when I listen, with all due respect, you, Members, I get the feeling as a representative of the government that you're only dealing with Janez Janša. Wake up, open your eyes – again Janez Janša, turn on the television – John Janša, as if he was the biggest problem. No, it's not. We're talking about content. You're saying we've been taking decisions without a profession. None of the decrees proposed by the Ministry of the Interior have been adopted without a profession. I'm sorry, I don't know what you're taking for an expert, but I'm the expert committee that gives the instructions we follow, and we're also coordinating with the neighbouring countries. Also within the European Union. It's just that every word is superfluous. Freedom of speech, you're disturbed by the right trumpets. Why are you disturbed by right trumpets if you are so concerned about freedom of speech? And I say, thank God we have some other thoughtless trumpet to set you up, to those who see otherwise, even a mirror in the back. Our concern, and that is why this law is also on the agenda, is that we create the future of Slovenia within the European Union, that democratic conditions are established. This is often unacceptable, but it is common. I also have a feeling with you, honourable Member, that we have long known from Maribor that some here in this national assembly, because the government has fallen or because some have thrown a rifle into the bean corn, said Mr Medved that you are offended. I'm sorry you weren't able to rule because you weren't able to have a dialogue. I understand that you are so angry and that you are so against everything that this government proposes, and also against this law. If the law is unconstitutional, the Government will respect such a decision, but the Constitutional Court must decide. And probably after what you predicted, if you support him, the law will also receive support in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u223	Reploco has Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Mr Franz Kangler, I am not completely offended, nor do I know what should be in the opposition far from this. All I'm saying is the facts that you're trying to enforce in this country. This is repression and illegal decrees because this government rules with illegal decrees and accepts them on Saturday night in written sessions. Look at how many meetings were written and how many decrees you changed in writing. Yeah, that's legitimate, because I actually agree with it, but it'd be nice to take that into account and respect the profession. In the face of Dr. Logareva, head of the covid-19 advisory group, Matthew Logar told the media that the government, with the last decree, extended the condition slightly faster to the overly ill, vaccinated, tested. That what you've just remembered is that everyone in public administration will have to be vaccinated, and I don't even start to explain. I ask you so politely that you do not say that no decree has been taken without a profession. Because that's what you said, and now I've quoted you as saying that you don't, because it's just a lie. But if Mr. Janša is the biggest problem in this country – yes, perhaps it is! You know why? Because he's obviously had this pain for 30 years, that we've all been guilty of what's been happening to him for 30 years, and now he's got to take revenge on everyone for it, in quotes. That's how we can understand it. And in psychology, there is also an expression — a sociopath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u226	Just two items. First of all, I think that this last debate, which was, was a very fine proof of how urgently this article is needed. If it is used as you have concluded, such words and in such a way and in a hard form, which, by the way, may even be the subject of another procedure. Secondly, the question is how will all of this, as you think, end now. In fact, you say that in your opinion this is the biggest problem in Slovenia. Apparently so, given that you are signing a contract in which this treaty is based on exclusion. It is said that someone has been expelled and is not cooperating with him. This, of course, is not political, not wise, not human, not national. When it comes to politics, policy should always be based on values, Mrs Mirnik, on values. What is a policy without values, but I have previously pointed to three cases from history. I hope you remember them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day, everybody!
