ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 25th meeting of the National Assembly! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jože Lenart from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m., Alexander Reberšek until 12 noon, mag. Andrei Reich, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. The bill is at the 36th session of the 7th session. 9. 2021 was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u2	Good morning. Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In front of us is an amendment to the Income Act. The legal order introduces some key changes – raising the general income allowance to EUR 7 000, abolishing the increased overall relief rate, reducing the maximum 50% of the income rates to 43%, reintroducing the regular coordination of tax incentives with the increase in the price of living needs and exempting taxes on income from a foreign employer or a foreign country, taking into account the income received abroad in the calculation of the income tax received in Slovenia. The overall income of the worker would thus, irrespective of origin, be taxed as income received in Slovenia. As we have already responded to the amendment of the law in the committee debate, sweet words are the shameless tax exemptions for the rich to the detriment of the poor. Let me explain. First. The proposal to raise general relief from the current EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 is at first sight a welcome measure that will benefit all taxpayers. But it is an extremely unfair measure, from which the workers will get the most, with the highest wages, while some of the worst paid workers will even be at a disadvantage. For example, a manager with 10,000 euros of gross wages will get 292 euros more per month; an average worker who earns 850 euros will get 13 euros less per month. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the rate of the highest income class from 50 % to 43 %. Again, a tax gift that will benefit only the rich and the rich. 0.3% of employees with the highest wages in the country will profit. It would be hard to imagine more unfair tax measures. While we are accustomed to such proposals from the current government or Economic Chamber, which consistently advocates the interests of capital and the rich, it is not surprising that the proposal comes from a union closely linked to a leading government party. But the unions should protect workers' rights. The proposed amendments to the law are also harmful because they would spend the state budget and the budgets of the municipalities. They would create a public financial deficit of around €600 million, on a regular basis, annually. However, because of the huge loss of income, there would be not only a huge deficit in the state budget, but also a large drop in the tax revenues of municipal budgets. The 54% share of the realised income of the previous year is the largest source of funding for municipalities. And defective municipal budgets are translated into less money for kindergartens, schools, roads, municipal infrastructure, non-profit housing, health care and care. Due to the covida-19 epidemic, the budget deficit was €3.5 billion last year and an additional deficit of € 2.7 billion is foreseen in the 2021 budget. It should be noted, however, that in the first seven months of 2021, the government has produced a deficit of EUR 2.3 billion, which means that at the end of the year the deficit will be much higher than expected. If we want to maintain the public pension and health system and other pillars of the social state in such a situation, new tax inflows will need to be provided which will not burden the weakest, but the capital and wealth of the rich. However, we must not agree that, at the expense of tax exemptions, the rich and capital are further exhausted from the state budget and that the public social and development infrastructure of the whole country is impoverished in the long term. In the event of such a massive tax drop, the government should either be in additional debt or compensate for the cut in budget expenditure, which means that the scope of the social state would also be reduced. Since social services, such as unemployment benefits, child allowances and financial social assistance, are particularly beneficial to the weakest citizens, this means that there will finally be a large-scale shift in assets from the poor to the rich. Every cent we give to the rich through tax breaks is a cent less for the development of public infrastructure, for the development of a social state. Every cent the state gives to the rich for luxury is a cent less to survive the poor. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u4	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government! The new Income Act has been introduced into the legislative process by signing more than 5,000 voters and refers to the issue of taxation of the income of so-called migrant workers. These are Slovenian citizens and tax residents who mostly migrate to neighbouring countries on a daily or weekly basis, mostly to the Republic of Austria. However, since the taxation of work in neighbouring countries is generally lower than that in Slovenia, it is only the annual accounts of income for these migrant workers that show how high their tax obligations are to pay the income. The addition itself also explains that it is not a double taxation, as was often misinterpreted. The proposed solutions to today's novelty thus pursue the objective of reducing the tax liability or surcharge in a way that raises the overall relief to €7,000, in order to align tax reliefs with the increase in the price of living needs and in order to remove part of the income generated abroad from taxation, which, according to the applicants, would allow for the proper treatment of labour-related costs. In particular, it is a matter of reimbursement of the cost of transport to work and of the cost of eating at work, as these categories of foreign labour regulations are not generally known. This would align the position of workers in Slovenia with those employed abroad, according to the proposal. The applicants also explain that such a change in legislation, i.e. a reduction in labour taxation, would effectively increase wages for all employees. This would increase consumption and economic activity. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we can, however, agree with this last statement. We are convinced that our tax legislation needs updates in the direction of making our business environment more competitive and attractive for foreign investment and for creating new jobs, especially those with added value. Therefore, the government has already drawn up legal solutions that will burden the work with tax. However, changes will be introduced gradually, including with a view not to jeopardising public financial stability. On the other hand, it should be noted that the implementation of this new Law on Income would also constitute a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, as a group of natural persons or a category of their income would provide for a derogation from the internationally established principle of taxation of residents by world income. On the basis of everything in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre of this proposal, we were unable to support the Law at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues! A proposal for amendments to the Income Act was tabled by the Migrant Workers' Union in Parliament. Its solutions relate to raising general tax relief from the current EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000, which means higher net wages for all citizens. They further propose a reduction in the premium rate from the current 50% to 43% and a re-introduction of the annual harmonisation of tax reliefs with the growth rate of living needs. During the government of Marjana Sarca, the SDS party introduced an identical income law, addressing its potential voters — migrant workers. Today, when the same SDS leads the government and has scissors and linen in its hands, it rejects the content of the law, which it has only proposed a little while ago and has been adamantly defending itself. Thus, in February this year, the government practically rejected its solutions due to extremely high financial consequences, about 600 million, as they would pose significant risks to the stability of public finances. It also referred to the recommendations of the Fiscal Council, which, due to the poor state of public finances, advises the government to adopt measures that will have far-reaching financial implications even after the crisis. The argument on the state of public finances and on the basis of the epidemic could be accepted as sufficient reason for the conversion of SDS, but this is also something that quickly floats through the water when it reigns only three months later and, contrary to its own opinion, puts its amendment to the Income Act into the legislative process. The key solutions to today's proposal are very similar to the government law that was introduced in May this year. Just as the migrant workers' union law also means higher net wages, which gradually raises to EUR 7 000 500 overall, lowers the income rate in the highest income class to 45% and introduces mandatory annual harmonisation of tax incentives. Moreover, in addition to lower wage taxation, the government proposal also entails lower taxation of capital gains, dividends and rents. The government novels, along with other accompanying laws forming the new Janša tax reform, are well above the cost of the law imposed by migrant workers; and, at the same time, Slovenia, with a record public debt, can afford an additional loss of income of 1 billion. However, the SDS government promises people higher wages, lower taxes, honey and milk. In the SAB, we are convinced that this government does not have a serious agenda for actually adopting the amended income law. If it were available, the migrant workers' law would be modified with a handful to complement and realize what it claims to be – raising the overall relief to more than twice the current one, the income burden of the highest class and the introduction of mandatory annual harmonisation of the benefits. This would be one step closer to her stated goal, but of course she did not. In view of the fact that the SDS party is leading with the diversity of its pre-election and opposition promises, we are not surprised by the above. Let me just touch some points. All pensioners will receive 500 euro Christmases. The mandate is expired, but there is still no spirit or hearing about the goddess. Prices of wine will be €55 under the SDS government. And now that we have a government of SDS, we are still paying for a wine of €110; that is, in 2020, we paid the highest prices of vignettes in view of the fact that, due to the closure of the state of motorway transport, we could not use the months. The SDS is tirelessly addressing voters with slogans – Less for taxes, more for you, regarding the promise to reduce VAT to pre-crisis levels. And yes, it is no surprise that even this promise to this day has not been materialized. The confirmation that the SDS is not fulfilling its promises is also a recent fiasco. The SDS rejected the law, which filed just before the takeover of the mandate and which promised people higher wages for raising the general benefit. This farce will be recorded in the history of our Parliament. The SDS party proposes the law and the SDS party votes in favour of the law – not suitable for further consideration. We did not support the bill in the SAB. We, too, want people in our country to have higher salaries and lower taxes, but we maintain a responsible attitude towards public finances, whose sustainability is essential if we are to maintain prosperity, public health, public education and many social rights. At a time when the state of public finances is worse than ever in the history of Slovenia alone, the budget would not have passed on an additional 600 million revenue outage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Taxes are what we pay for civilized society. Taxation is actually the decision-making of the authorities on how to obtain the necessary funds from businesses, households and individuals and invest them in collective consumption and investment. Money derived from taxes is a means by which a real financial resource is transferred from private time to public good. The spirit of a nation, its cultural level, its social structure, the actions that national politics can carry out, all of this is recorded in the nation's fiscal history. Those who can listen to these messages hear the thunders of world history brighter than anywhere else. As the government as the executive power of the State fulfils its economic responsibilities, there is no magic secret in this. The state collects tax money. By its size, the income is the second most important tax source for value added tax. In 2019 income from income amounted to EUR 2 billion and EUR 591 million. The allocation between state and municipal budgets was made between 54% of the country and 46% of the municipality. In this mandate, we have discussed a series of amendments to income legislation in the National Assembly, which would reduce the tax revenues of the state budget by a few hundred million euros per year. This time, by raising the general income allowance from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 and by reducing the tax rate in the highest grade by seven percentage points, and with some other modifications, it would reduce this revenue by EUR 620 million, a quarter of the annual value. All of these proposals have one common feature. Completely undefined and quantitatively undefined substitution effects. The expectation that up to a reduction in income the increased purchasing power of the population and thus encouraged consumption, with which tax revenues will be compensated by higher value added tax revenues, is delusional and without any real basis. Increasing the available income of individuals could have an impact on higher private consumption, which would result in higher inflows of value added tax. The decommissioning of income, however, has the strongest impact in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-limited than other income classes and spend all additional income on consumption. To the greatest extent, the consumption of this group of taxpayers is linked to the purchase of goods with a lower tax rate, and therefore it cannot be expected that income from value added tax could be increased by the value of the total loss of income. In this case, however, it is important to stress once again. Income is a fundamental tax source of funding for local government. It is so large and important that it is impossible to replace it with another source. Those who say such a thing can be done with the imposition of a property tax simply demonstrate the overall luxury of their incompetence. So let's say directly, lowering income means an attractive political idea from a demagogic point of view. From a practical policy point of view, however, it is a direct attack on the financial autonomy of local self-government, in particular on the principle of coherence between financial resources and powers. The fundamental focus of autonomous local self-government is to achieve greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to ensure more effective provision of local public good than by central government. The financial resources of local communities should therefore be in proportion to the tasks laid down in the Constitution and the law. We know that this principle has not been respected in Slovenia. It is only in the past year that we have embarked on a path that promises that at least mid-term local self-government will no longer be financially sub-capacitated; and there is no reason for us to start undermining the foundations ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. A lovely greeting to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. A proposal to amend the law was prepared in the Migrant Workers' Union. Slovenian workers working abroad pay us roads, taxes, building land, income, as well as all other Slovenian citizens. A migrant worker who loses his job, who would be entitled to a higher amount of compensation, is not getting it now. The funds ordered by the Slovenian Employment Institute can be reimbursed from foreign cash registers, and Slovenia is also likely to give up foreign capital to help its own people. Children of some migrant workers, despite paying income in Slovenia, also attend kindergartens and schools abroad. Also, all their consumption in Slovenia, where they live, can be considered as imports of money from abroad, which is positive for Slovenia's gross social product. In short, for Slovenia, their homeland is by no means harmful, on the contrary. They are beneficial to Slovenia from a financial point of view, and we are trying to burden them as much as possible. Would it be better to have these Slovenians in the country and in social support? They decided, perhaps not on their own faults, to work abroad, but also to contribute to their own country. Let me mention the high number of unemployed in the past in Styria and Prekmurje, and as a result, people decided to seek out foreign jobs. Perhaps you prefer those who draw money from the country and draw money from disability, especially those who are not even Slovenians by accident, but who come from abroad. Of course, such ones would go hand in hand at every step and offer them everything. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment, but, as usual, you rejected it because of your own pianological benefits here in the National Assembly. We wanted migrant workers receiving income from a working relationship with a foreign employer to be deducted from the calculated income at least from food and transport. If we were to deduct the cost of eating during work and the cost of transporting to work, we would take a small step, but at least a little in the direction of justice towards these people working abroad. They would be allowed to receive reimbursements in net amount, which is available only to those workers who receive income from the Slovenian employer. Migrant workers, who are our Slovenian cousins, are thus in a deprived position. At the same gross income, equal contributions and equal or even higher recognised costs, they have compared to the worker employed with us, ultimately lower available income. Slovenia is more than evidently much more concerned about sloths, jobless people, foreigners and all those who harm their own country. In the Slovenian National Party, despite the lack of support in the National Assembly, we will continue to fight for the working Slovenian nation, especially for those abroad who did not find themselves there to a great extent to blame. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! Proposals for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act shall, inter alia, propose a derogation from Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Act, which provides that the resident is bound to pay income from all incomes having a source in the Republic of Slovenia and also incomes having a source outside Slovenia. That provision contains the internationally established principle of taxation of residents by world income, which was introduced in the system of taxation of income of natural persons with income for the first time in full by the Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2005. The proposal for a provision proposing a derogation for a certain category of debtors is so controversial in terms of equality before the law, as it would provide for a single category of income of natural persons to derogate from the taxation of residents by world income. Moreover, the proposal for certain categories of taxpayers' income in relation to the double taxation conventions concluded would also constitute a double non-taxation of income. Internationally, most countries, including virtually all OECD countries, use two criteria for income taxation, namely residence and a source of income. Excluding one type of income from the principle of taxation of residents by world income would thus constitute a derogation from one of the key internationally established principles of taxation of the income of natural persons and would also constitute a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Respected and respected, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues and government representative, hello! The draft law, which has already been rejected on the labour market, foresees an increase in the current overall relief from 3 000 302.70 euros per year to a single relief of 7 000 euros per year. It also proposes a reduction of 50 % of income to 43 % and re-introducing the harmonisation of tax reliefs with the growth rate of living needs. In its opinion on the draft law, the Government drew attention to the high fiscal risk and to the preservation of the long-term stability of public finances. On this occasion, let me remind you that the same government has tabled a amendment to the Income Act in May – the general debate requested in the LMŠ will soon be on the turn – which also gradually increases overall relief and reduces taxation in the fifth income class to 45% and the financial implications of which the Fiscal Council, in its July opinion, assessed in the cumulative 2 billion by 2025. It is therefore inconsistent and hypocritical that, in the pre-election candy offered by the government itself, it does not mention the stability of public finances, offers any calculations and argues that everything will return to the budget with an increase in consumption, as the applicant of the novel under consideration claims. So everything on the shoulders of the economy, which will have to raise GDP growth strongly or the added value at least to the level of the GDP average, and in doing so will also raise wages, pensions in order to ensure consumption. This is all right, but this is how we must become a gazelle among EU members. Or it's real, but it's another question. Thus, in writing in February, the government was concerned about public financial sustainability; and in May, when they submitted their novel, there was no more. In LMŠ, we understand the efforts of the proposed Migrant Workers' Union to reduce income in Slovenia, where their permanent residence and their families, by raising the overall relief from €3 000.302.70 to a single relief of €7 000. We also understand that migrant workers have higher labour costs due to remoteness in another country. Regrettably, however, the proposal for a provision which constitutes a derogation from the internationally established principle of taxation on the basis of global income for residents only for a certain category of debtors is controversial in terms of equality before the law. Therefore, we have already proposed on the home committee that it might be worth considering solving this problem at EU level, by amending the convention, which would follow the objective of transferring part of the taxes, in our case of income, to the country of migrant workers. In the LMŠ we were in principle and voted against the bill in both cases, as its adoption would constitute a derogation from the internationally established principle of taxation of residents by world income and would pose a risk in the field of rules governing the establishment of enterprises and the employment of workers abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u16	Your Honor! The proposed additions and amendments to the Income Act were tabled by a group of five thousand voters, whose aim was to eliminate, in their view, the unfair regime for so-called migrant workers, Slovenian citizens and citizens who travel daily to work in other countries, particularly Austria. Due to differences in the standard, legal minimum payments and differences in tax rates in both countries, many workers have to pay the difference between the tax they have already paid in the neighbouring country and the tax they have to pay as Slovenian tax residents. In practice, this means that in Slovenia they pay more taxes than they would pay if they lived in the country where they work. There has been this problem for a long time and there are also different interpretations as to whether the current regime is fair. The fact is that migrant workers have to pay an additional tax difference due to their specific situation in Slovenia. In order to regulate their situation, several attempts have already been made, but they have all been unsuccessful either because of the Constitutional Court's intervention, which did not allow specific solutions for migrant workers, either because of large-scale solutions that would not help the affected, but would result in an excessively general decline in tax revenues. The two laws drafted by a group of voters would therefore be expected to find targeted and dosed solutions that would facilitate the situation of affected workers and workers without any wider impact. Unfortunately, it is only before us that the competent committee can only find a new solution that not only solves the situation of migrant workers but would affect all taxpayers, but would also have a huge negative impact on the revenue of the budget. Dearly beloved, we raise €1 billion and €600 million annually, and the solution proposed by the law would mean that this amount would decrease annually by more than €560 million or nearly a third. The law would not only affect taxes and migrant workers, but would significantly increase the general tax relief for all to reduce the tax liability, while at the same time impoverishing the budget. As always in the application of this solution, this would also mean that most tax burdens would bring for the best paid or those falling into the highest tax grade. The law would therefore, in order to improve the situation of one group, reduce taxes on all, making the state budget impoverished to the extent that the functioning of the State and also the municipalities receiving half the funds raised could be compromised. It is because of all the above-mentioned legislative proposals that the Home Committee has not received support and is today finalising its legislative procedure. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we believe that the solution for migrant workers and workers is to be sought within the framework of specific solutions that recognize their specific situation and with less damage to the common good, to regulate their status fairly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the transport laws in road transport within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, first signed by Maša Kociper. The bill is at the 31st session of the 8th session. 9. 2021 was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Road Transport Act provides for free transport in urban transport of municipalities for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. It is proposed that the funds for financing free urban transport are provided to carriers from the State budget, in the amount of revenue generated by the carriers from the sale of tickets to those beneficiaries in 2020. The manner and procedure of carrying out free transport for urban liner transport shall be laid down by the Minister in more detail. It is also proposed that students and students are entitled to a free ticket for the entire territory of Slovenia during the holidays. In July of this year, a new Law on Road Transport was adopted, which stipulated that the Minister responsible for transport should lay down a procedure for concluding a contract concerning the free transport of beneficiaries in urban transport. The Minister then adopted an amended Regulation on the implementation of subsidised transport. Under the regulation, the Minister of Infrastructure has already concluded a contract with urban transport operators in Ljubljana and Maribor, with the Ljubljana Passenger Transport and Marprom, and is preparing the necessary technical solutions for similar contracts for the free transport of beneficiaries in urban transport with other urban transport operators in Slovenia. In addition, a simplification of the subsidised ticket system for students, students and participants in adult education and registered athletes was carried out on the basis of the amendments to the Regulation. Instead of the previous relative tickets from home to school, he is a student and a student with 1. This year's 9th annual ticket is available from Slovenia, which allows unlimited number of trips throughout Slovenia. The annual ticket is valid for the whole school year or year of study, including during holidays. The amendment was introduced without the request for additional payment of the beneficiaries and without any additional burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the bill thus interferes with the already adopted simplification of the ticket system, at the same time it predominates the area of subsidised tickets regulated in the sub-laws, in Nova Slovenija we find that its adoption does not make sense, and we have also rejected it on the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the end of 2019, we unanimously confirmed the law allowing pensioners to transport free of charge with this card in cross-border passenger transport, on buses and trains. Not all pensioners, not first-class — yes, second-class — no. Our goal with the law we have tabled is to round up and pensioners can also take part in urban transport, where they are organised, because only two municipalities are obliged by law to carry out this public service, namely Ljubljana and Maribor, so that all pensioners on urban transport, where they are organised, can drive free of charge. This is the second time we have passed the law, the second time we have been rejected by the existing coalition. Indeed, the partial solution found by the Ministry of Infrastructure is the signing of contracts with contractors who perform urban transport today, unfortunately only in the municipality of Maribor and Ljubljana. In short, you divide pensioners into first-class, those who can drive all over Slovenia for free and second-class, those who still have to pay for urban transport. Moreover, you also divide the municipalities into first-class and second-class municipalities, because to some – Ljubljana and Maribor – you subsidise these urban transports, other municipalities – Velenje, Murska Sobota, Nova Gorica, Novo mesto – they pay for these transports themselves. Therefore, it is necessary to provide for a system-wide arrangement for the financing of free services for pensioners. We are sad that the journey of this law is over, we would be happy if we were as united as we were in 2019 to support free cross-country transport for pensioners on all trains and buses, in order to equally support urban transport for pensioners. I will remind you that today the largest government party in 2019 wanted to legalise and give pensioners only five free rides per month, five. At that time, we provided completely free inter-country transport for pensioners. For the first time, it is financially beneficial for pensioners, but at least equally important are the safety of the elderly, safety and mobility. And by providing them with free transportation, we also provide them with security and greater mobility. Again, it truly grieves us. But I give the retirees my word that this is not the last attempt. And if not before, we'll ensure that in the next coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group we support and will always support solutions that are in the well-older and socially vulnerable groups. However, given the political and our life experience, we do not support or support solutions that only partially regulate certain areas and have a short-term political agenda for the main focus of the proposed changes. In the Desus Group we do not separate the elderly from those who live in the cities and from those who live in the countryside, because each one of them is unique and important. We do not separate the elderly according to their political beliefs, for it is the free will of each individual. In the Desus Group we work for the benefit of all pensioners and the elderly, and for their and our rights we fight evenly, regardless of all the obstacles and observations that we listen to, regardless of the badges, the addresses of residences and beliefs. Our work is aimed at a just pension system and ensuring conditions for an appropriate and dignified age for all. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is welcome, we must recognise that. Applicants present themselves as pensioners, of course they believe, advocate for the well-being of the elderly and want to set up free urban line traffic for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans, and at the same time provide free public passenger transport for pupils and students throughout Slovenia during summer holidays. The proposal for a new law on the parental committee was not adopted and is therefore being concluded. Probably the next time a similar bill is reintroduced on the parliamentary bench. As we have done so many times, this time we have listened to false evidence that the members of Desus have voted against improving the situation of the elderly. It is good that it is always possible to look at the results of the vote, which shows that we have not voted against. I would like to remind the proposers kindly that it is good to put them at their doorstep first. In only one year of cooperation and constructive posture, the Desus Group managed to ensure a threefold increase in pensions combined by 7.9%, not to mention a double solidarity allowance and an increase in the pensions guaranteed. I believe that without the slightest hesitation, and this time with the understanding of the pension system and the pension rights acquired, you will support our proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, with which we will fully eliminate by the end of the year the injustice of pensioners at the remaining 3.5%. These are achievements, respected applicants supported by concrete figures. We are aware of the importance of mobility and the too often overlooked social dimension, especially during the third life period. That is why we were the initiators of the establishment of free public transport for pensioners and older persons, which was then introduced by law on 1 July 2020. We also welcomed the news on the provision of free transport in cities for pensioners and older than 65 years of age at the time of the signing of the contracts of the competent ministry with the transport operator in Ljubljana and Maribor, as well as the news on the simplification of the system of subsidised tickets for students and students, which was carried out in the context of the regulation so far and on the basis of the amendment of the Regulation on the implementation of subsidised transport. We are pleased that we are increasingly stressing the importance of health, and as a society with measures and actions, we are striving to reduce environmental pollution either by walking away from home on foot, by bicycle, by sharing vehicles, or by using public passenger transport if possible. And financial incentives in this area are certainly more than welcome. But change must first begin with us, and in a patient way, only then can we achieve solutions with a common dialogue that will have a positive long-term impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! The proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act aims to ensure that pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans are entitled to free transport in urban line transport in those urban municipalities carrying out urban transport. The bill also allows students, students and adults to use free integrated public passenger transport during the summer months to drive across Slovenia irrespective of the relation for which the school year was subsidised. We support both the social and environmental aspects of the proposed solutions in the Group of Non-Related Members. These measures, in our view, would ensure that those categories of passengers are transported as safely as possible and that the proposed amendment would also constitute a financial burden on their budgets. Such a solution would encourage sustainable mobility and greater use of public passenger transport, which would thus become the backbone of transport in Slovenia. Non-aligned Members believe that these changes in the transport sector would to a large extent help to defuse environmental pollution, as transport restrictions with the highest share of greenhouse gas emissions are a key objective of reducing the achievement of national sustainable development objectives. This would be an important step towards solving environmental problems. At the same time, we are taking the initiative to prepare a legislative amendment that would include a solution to this problem in other, smaller municipalities as well. Only then would we end up dividing this into first-, second-, third-rate pensioners. We are surprised that at first the Government did not have any substantive reservations to the bill and did not oppose it, and now suddenly it does not support it. Although the legislative procedure for the proposed novel is being concluded today, we are pleased that the Government, at least in part, has listened to the proposed solutions and ideas. The Ministry of Infrastructure concluded a contract a few weeks ago with city transport operators in Ljubljana and Maribor on free transport for urban buses for pensioners over 65 years of age, which they will be able to use on 1 October. At this point, we would like to call on the Government and the competent ministry to conclude similar arrangements with the other municipal municipalities carrying out urban transport as soon as possible. Simplification of the system of subsidised tickets for students, students and participants in adult education and registered athletes has recently been carried out. Instead of the previous travel tickets from home to school, students and students received a ticket on September 1st this year called Slovenia, which allows them to travel throughout the school year and throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We call on unrelated Members, both urban and all other Slovenian municipalities, to contribute more intensively to changing people's travel habits and increasing the mobility of their citizens, including by regulating urban and suburban cycling links and cycling routes, by introducing bicycle zones and a system of free use of bicycles and electric bicycles, by establishing the sharing of electric skis, electric scooters and electric vehicles in the car sharing system and not least by purchasing electric buses. This would reduce the number of passenger vehicles, reduce the amount of releases and noise burdening cities and the environment, and this would also contribute to the more beautiful, attractive and modern appearance of the city and to the improvement of the quality of stay. And it would also contribute to our collective thinking in the spirit of the greatest benefit for future generations and the entire planet. The harassment for the votes of pensioners apparently gets its green component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you again very much for your word. Nice greetings to all here in the hall again! We have a very attractive novelty before us, because it concerns vulnerable groups, both older and younger generations. For more than a year now, pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans can drive free of charge on cross-border routes, in inland road and rail transport. Some take advantage of this, others not because they are used to other forms of transport, but also to buses or trains are difficult to reach those who do not have cars or are likely to be without a driver’s license. The proposer would like to extend this to free local or urban transport. Sustainable mobility should be promoted in order to reduce air pollution, reduce traffic congestion and so on. At the end of August, the Ministry of Infrastructure with the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor agreed on free transport with city buses for pensioners and pensioners over 65 years of age. They will be able to benefit from the new service from 1 October. We see the essence of the problem in the Slovenian National Party because it would apply to those municipalities or major municipalities operating in the city, but not to all 212 municipalities in Slovenia, which we find very discriminatory. At the same time, our schedule is diminished. When the number of passengers on public transport was limited, a number of regular employed students reported that they had to take a bus on a later train, because it was the pensioners who used their free transport. We may also begin to think that if these are of a social nature and not a visit to a doctor or other emergency service, they may be limited to pensioners. We also see the problem in the interruption, the verbal attack in front of the bus, which we saw with our own eyes when the pensioners stayed outside the bus door in Ljubljana when they wanted to take a trip to Portorož. We suggest that you consider applying for bus applications, such as subsidised tickets or tickets. One time, you can't get 100 in there, even though the cities are only for 50 passengers, and even in the middle of the fourth wave of the epidemic, we've closed it all down. We believe that the financial implications are underestimated as for TES, Coal Velenje and will certainly amount to more than 7.3 million euros per year. Free public passenger transport provided for students, adult education participants and students throughout the Republic of Slovenia during summer holidays has already been realized by the Ministry of Infrastructure. The financial burden has a positive impact on the mobility of young people and encourages them to use public passenger transport more during work through student services where they are not entitled to reimbursement of transport costs at work and from work. The beneficiaries are thus no longer confined to the home-school-home relationship, but they can travel on all inter-national public transport routes in Slovenia, where the price remains unchanged, which is a large plus. Drawn below the line, simplifying and evaluating tickets will be of great benefit to young people who are so much more skilled in online shopping, which undoubtedly enables us to digitise today. Although this is a major step forward, in the Slovenian National Party we agree that the pressing issues need to be fully changed at systemic level. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, welcome! The proposal for the Act of the Party Alenka Bratušek for the collection of political points on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act was discussed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space following a reduced procedure. The representative of the Government or the Ministry of Infrastructure, State Secretary Blaž Kosorok, expressed the view on the proposal of the proposer that, on the basis of the amendments and additions to the Act, the amendments already in force on 26 June of this year have already been introduced and, in accordance with the sub-legislative acts, they have already prepared a solution that beneficiaries of Article 114, paragraph 8, paragraph 9 and 10b of this Act will be entitled to retirees, persons over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans, free transport in urban line traffic in the municipalities of Maribor and Ljubljana, where this is organised as a compulsory economic public service. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, both urban passenger transport operators agree with the urban transport manager 31. 8. Contracts on mutual obligations to provide transport. The agreement also foresees that if the number of passengers increases by more than 5%, certain articles in the contract will change. By the Secretary of State, it was promised that the Ministry would continue the arrangements and all technical procedures with a view to including a single solution to free urban transport in other cities. The government estimates that the financial implications presented by the applicant amount to EUR 3.8 million for the free transport of pensioners, war veterans, disabled persons and persons over 65 years of age are too low. The overall assessment of the Ministry and the contractors is that the subsidy will amount to between €7m and €10m per annum, depending on the number of passengers transported. That is why, of course, we were unable to support the populist proposal of Alenka Bratušek's law, which, when it comes to opposition, has to do with the current tape with incomprehensible populist proposals of laws and amendments that are not real and have nothing to do with reality. Attempts by Alenka Bratušek on cheaper wines, free transport and many others, such as the one rejected on the parental committee and many others, are totally contrary to the proposals of Alenka Bratušek on the reduction of pensions for example. Recently, at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, during the biggest health crisis, when this government raises pensions, as never before in the history of Slovenia, and they would reduce pensions; while Alenka Bratušek wanted to raise pensions in a shameful manner during the economic growth of the pensioners for six-and-a-half euros. Not to mention their achievement, Alenka Bratušek's Party, bank goons, and filling the bank holes of its tycoons by spending taxpayer's money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are of the opinion that a populist proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is not necessary because the regulation already provides sufficient legal basis for the provision of free transport in cities for those beneficiary groups. That is why such populist proposals, proposals for the collection of political points, especially at a time when Alenka Bratušek is in opposition, cannot be supported when he is in government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In Slovenia, free public bus and rail services are in place for pensioners, people over 65 years of age who are not in a working relationship, holders of disabled cards and war veterans over 65 years of age. The National Assembly passed the law during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. So far, more than 150 000 people have benefited from the benefits, with about 600 000 beneficiaries. And in view of the experience so far, the proposal is a logical continuation that such a benefit to the same population groups is also available for urban bus transport. On the one hand, it is the social nature of such a solution, which is not negligible, and on the other hand public passenger transport is one of the pillars of sustainable mobility. And such an increase in public passenger transport transport, to which the introduction of the benefit would certainly help, would, in its entirety, relieve road transport. This also means the right way to achieve the environmental objectives to which we have committed ourselves and, of course, they are in the interest of all of us. But the current government coalition has also rejected such a solution this time. Most of these same Members and Members of the current coalition have been supported by free inter-city bus transport, but not by the city. Indeed, the city would be even more justified, since most pensioners benefit from this. And the government intervened again with clear and unconvincing arguments against, if partial solutions are not good and it is necessary to take a holistic approach. But it is precisely that the government has introduced free urban passenger transport for pensioners in Ljubljana and Maribor, and elsewhere it is a partial solution, and what else. Where are the rest of the congregations, and where are the rest of the pensioners? We're in LMŠ for free rides to all pensioners. In caring for the financial position of the municipalities with which this coalition is so much to boast, this would certainly be a beneficial measure for the municipalities. Many of them are free city bus transport for pensioners, and some for all citizens, are already making it possible with their budgetary resources. By assuming the burden, the state would, of course, burden them, so that the proposal would have a beneficial effect both on the pensioner's standard and on transport and environmental policy, and the costs of the country would be relatively negligible compared to the benefits. But since no coalition has proposed free urban transport for all pensioners, this is now a bad proposal. When it comes to the benefit of the pensioners, it is prudent for the government once and for another time recklessly. And that's how this law ends the parliamentary path again. Pensioners, apart from Ljubljana and Maribor and where municipalities provide funding, continue to pay for urban transport. And we're listening to how much this marriage is like. Yeah, if he's so very likeable, if you like him so much, then why didn't you confirm him?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you, President. Dear fellows! We recently approved in the National Assembly a bill providing free public interstate passenger transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. The marriage solution has been very commendable and in practice also works well. Lawmakers have assessed that it would be useful and useful for these groups to also provide free travel in urban line transport and for all students and students to use free integrated public passenger transport during the summer months for driving across Slovenia. We welcome the proposed solutions and objectives in the Group of Social Democrats because we believe that the adoption of this law would result in a legal solution that is systemic and comprehensive. We welcomed the solutions proposed by the Social Democrats and also supported the marriage proposal on the labour market. But there was no hearing for good and systemic solutions by the coalition and the government. Although the government in principle supports the measures taken by law, it has opposed the law. Solutions would certainly contribute to safer transport and promote sustainable mobility, which we are so keen to talk about. As a result, the cities would have smaller greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner air, higher quality of accommodation and smaller traffic jams and congestions. The bill also received support from the Commission of the State Council, but it unfortunately did not convince the government coalition, the department ministry, to step forward with the marriage proposal. Every day we can hear statements and comments about sustainable mobility, the green future, caring for the elderly, caring for the vulnerable and the like, but only a few times in the direction of doing so. This proposal is indeed a small step in the direction of the said proposal, but it does. As has already been said, we have supported the marriage proposal by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, because we believe that the solutions and objectives of the marriage proposal are good, meaningful and systematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act introduces a legal basis for free transport in urban line transport, namely for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans, in urban municipalities where urban passenger transport is carried out. It also introduces free tickets for students and students in the summer months. Poverty among the elderly is growing and is becoming a growing social and political issue. 90% of pensioners receive less than the average net earnings in Slovenia. Alarm signals come practically from all sides, either from non-governmental parties, such as the Vida sociale Humanitarianček project, or from official institutions such as the Court of Auditors. According to the ZPIZ data, for 2018, around 221 000 pensioners received a pension of less than €700. If we add beneficiaries of disability, family and widow's pensions, the number increases to 341 thousand 874 pensioners. This is more than 65% of all pension recipients, without beneficiaries of part-time pensions and partial pensions, which then total about 522 thousand and almost 523 thousand. Therefore, more than 65% of all pension recipients cannot afford basic care in the DSOs, or spend virtually all pension benefits for them. More than 58 000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros, almost 160 000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 600 euros. The poverty risk threshold for 2018 was €662. Now imagine what kind of poverty our pensioners and pensioners really live in. In Slovenia we do not have only poor pensioners and pensioners. From day to day, there are increasing numbers of poor employees, especially those who are on duty, even though they are not lagging behind in the public sector – the J Group, I am talking about nurses, other nursing and nursing staff around the homes for the elderly. Transport is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia. More than 40% of greenhouse gas emissions are from transport. From 2005 to 2018, emissions increased by as much as 32 %. At the same time, it is a sector with at least a vision and the worst vision of reducing greenhouse gases in a key period, which is until 2030. If we are to take seriously the challenges posed by climate change, then we need to start dealing with things now, because it will be too late. And sustainable transport policy is what is a vision; and indeed sustainable transport policy is essentially public passenger transport. This applies in particular to Slovenia, where, unfortunately, only personality mobility has developed more or less over the last 30 years, is called carism and car purchases. Public passenger transport must become effective, which means that it must not be more time-consuming, or it must meet all the conditions for us to get from point A to goal B as soon as possible, or that it also allows us to transport various bicycles that help us to improve or lower carbon-free footprints in Slovenia. We on the board supported this proposal by the SAB party. And also in our programme Left is sustainable transport or public passenger transport one of the main themes and points. I think we should really talk more or less about how we will reduce the carbon footprint in Slovenia or even in our own nature. In such a case, all parties should support such a proposal, however, because it really helps to improve the quality of life of pensioners and pensioners; and in particular to improve the quality of life in general for all of us. And once again, public passenger transport is the essence of this sustainable development that everyone here likes to talk about in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the State Border Surveillance Act, a final procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Božo Predalič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u36	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Republic of Slovenia shall pay compensation to landowners on which technical obstacles are placed because of the title of the limitation of property rights on a particular part of the land or the inability to use this part of the land. On the other hand, the payment of these compensations is based on the registration of the service in the land book. The entry of services has in practice shown certain formal shortcomings in the legislation currently in force, which is being addressed by the amendment you will decide on. Thus, the novel builds on the normative basis for entering service into the public benefit of the land register also on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia and lays down the legal basis for the incorporation of service into the public benefit on the basis of a signed service contract, irrespective of any already registered prohibition on land-by-land land-by-land land-by-land. The novela that you will decide to solve makes it easier to save people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u38	Good-bye to all of you! On 7 September this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on Supplements to the Law on State Border Control as the home working body. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State, Mr Franz Kangler, explained that it was a matter of regulating the situation in cases where the State of Slovenia and the current arrangements did not allow the payment of the corresponding compensation when the protection fence was placed there. Therefore, they propose an amendment allowing the registration of services in these cases and thus the legal basis for the payment of the corresponding compensation to the beneficiary. After a short discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 2 and voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together. In this way, we propose that such an updated text be adopted in view of the regulation of the legal void, which is fair to all co-owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today, we are deciding on the amendments to the State Border Control Act proposed by the Government to the Assembly in order to ensure more effective management of the negotiation procedures for the establishment of public service services and the conclusion of public service contracts. With one of the previous novels of the State Border Control Act, the police have obtained powers to establish and use technical or other means to control or prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border. The establishment, installation and use of technical barriers and the establishment of public service shall limit or interfere with the constitutionally protected property right to property rights. The Law on State Border Control provides that compensation or compensation shall be paid to landowners on which a technical obstacle has been placed in place in the event of a public service burden on the property. The condition for payment of compensation is the registration of the service in the Land Book. Since the service right is a single right which can be entered only on the entire property share of the property and the service cannot be entered in its favour on its own property, in practice there are situations where the service cannot be entered into the public benefit of the property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Consequently, in these cases, it is not possible to pay compensation to the landowners on which the technical obstacle was placed. The proposed amendment will also allow for the entry of service into the land register on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia and, as a consequence, the payment of compensation to beneficiaries. Furthermore, the previous amendments to the Law on State Border Control and the Law on Spatial Planning do not regulate the provisions relating to already-inscribed burdens and land prohibitions on which public service must be entered into on the basis of a contract under the prior agreement procedure for the establishment of public service. The proposed additions will allow the public benefit service to be entered into on the basis of a public service contract, as a result of the temporary technical barriers put in place, irrespective of the already registered prohibition on the disposal or loading of land. The proposal of the Act certainly provides for more effective management of communication procedures for the establishment of services in the public interest and for the conclusion of public service contracts, which will provide a basis for easier resolution of compensation cases with landowners on which technical barriers are placed. In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u42	Your Honor! Complements of the State Border Control Act are necessary, according to the applicant, to address the issue of the registration of official rights in the Land Book. In order to place a technical obstacle on a territory, of course, a limitation on property rights is necessary. For this purpose, a service shall be established on these land for public benefit, which cannot be entered on land owned by the Republic of Slovenia and consequently the co-owners shall not be entitled to compensation. This bill regulates this issue as it will allow for the entry of service into the land book. But things about setting up a fence are not always as simple as they work in this law. The fact is that technical barriers were of no importance in protecting our country from the incursions of migrants, but some individuals have filled their pockets well on this account. In the past, in the SAB, we have repeatedly pointed out the non-transparent use of taxpayer money in the acquisition of wire and the southern border fence with Croatia. The interior minister predicts that they will soon place more than ten kilometres of additional fences on the southern border. This will cost our country some money again. In the SAB, we ask ourselves the very point of the matter, given the fact that more than 200 kilometres of fences have not had an excessive impact on the protection and maintenance of the smooth functioning of our country, especially if we add numbers of irregular migrations in recent times that are negligible compared to 2015. Last year, the number of illegal crossings of the southern border fell by more than 40%. Initially, the construction of the fence was planned as temporary, but it is increasingly indicative that technical obstacles at the southern border will remain there for some time. However, problems also arise when maintaining the condition. The population there is witnessing the growth of the fence, which harms animals and also affects the large growth of invasive plants. The law we have on the table today does not address this issue. Since the proposed amendments are solely to deal with the problem of compensation to the owner, we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The State Border Control Act has been in force since 2007 and has been amended and amended several times. The new law, which was adopted in February 2017, provided that the police should establish, install and use technical or other means to control the state border or prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border. However, in order to carry out these tasks and tasks prescribed by the acquis of the European Union, police officers may use land and water surfaces irrespective of ownership and the owners must enable them to do so. Those measures affect the constitutionally protected property right and therefore compensate the owners for the difficult regular use of land which may take up to 24 months, or pay compensation in the event of a public service burden. The problem encountered in practice is the condition laid down by the law in force for the payment of compensation on the basis of a contract between the official beneficiary and the owner of the property. It is an enrollment of the service in the Land Book, and this entry is of constitutional importance for the creation of the service. The service right is a single right which can only be entered on the entire property share of the property and the service cannot be entered on its own property for its benefit, and therefore there are situations where the service cannot be entered on the property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of all this, it is impossible not to establish a service or to pay compensation to the owners of the land on which the technical obstacle has been placed. The adoption of today's novel will also make it possible to enter the service into the land register on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia and will also enable the payment of compensation to the beneficiary. The existing legislation does not also regulate the provisions relating to already-inscribed burdens and prohibitions on land where service is to be entered. In addition, it can be compared to the situations where a contract is concluded and its entry is refused by the court on the grounds of a prior written prohibition on the imposition of a real estate burden on the benefit of natural persons or because of a written prohibition on the burden of black construction on the land in question. The proposed additions will allow the public benefit service to be entered into on the basis of a signed service contract as a result of the temporary technical obstacles put in place, irrespective of the already entered-in ban on land-by-land disposal or burden. The law therefore solves the problems that have arisen in specific implementing activities. The aim of the follow-up is to ensure more efficient management of procedures and the conclusion of public service contracts. Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the draft law on amendments to the State Border Control Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u46	Good day to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the bill is well placed, although it contains only three articles, as it constitutes an upgrade to the existing regime and addresses pressing problems. The fact is that this matter should have been regulated by the previous Sharqsa government, and it has done a bit of a distaste. Some comments, opinions and proposals were made by the various stakeholders with whom we agree more or less. It would make sense for the situation to be looked at on the ground, in practice, to actually see the situation. It seems important to us that temporary technical barriers, i.e. fences, wire barriers, other barriers, controllers must maintain them properly and regularly, thus preventing their over-fertilisation with vegetation, even on rivers. Public economic operators must have access to grass mowers to remove overgrowth and repair minor injuries. We must also take care of the transitions for the game, where we see too little cooperation with local hunting families in the Slovenian National Party. Appropriate installation is essential because, otherwise, the extreme edges of the shafts are falling, which in practice represents additional obstacles in the case of high waters, floods that have been increasing in recent times. If the Water Act had sufficient support, we wouldn't have any problems. But this is a story for another time. In the Slovenian National Party, we also require that certain funds be provided as soon as possible for the maintenance of the shores at the border sections, as well as for the removal of fences in case of maintenance, if access is enabled. We further note that the content of the proposed law is not subject to coordination with the acquis of the European Union and therefore would be more exceptional than it is in this area. The current regulation provides that compensation shall be paid to the owners of the land on which the technical obstacles have been placed, which we consider fair and fair to them. In the Slovenian National Party, we are certainly aware that our Slovenian villagers receive the compensation that belongs to them. Nowhere did we find any information on how many of these beneficiaries there are for compensation in the Republic of Slovenia, which is good to know. The repression does not increase with a wire fence, the intransigence of migrants like me Levica, because it is necessary to enter the border crossings if you have fair purposes; not jump across the fence, swim across the river, at night when citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are sleeping. For all of this, we need an army, a police force, at the border, to protect us and protect us from non-conspiracy with hidden evil purposes. We agree, however, that fences along the border must be as invisible as possible, including from an environmental, aesthetic point of view, that they are not too disruptive. Finally, I would say that in the Slovenian National Party we favour a solution to enable the proposed amendment to enter the service into the land book also on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u48	Well, that's a good-bye. When it comes to property relations, of course, things need to be regulated legally and there are no exceptions here and all things are properly arranged. And where there is an intervention that the interests of the State or the community require, when it comes to security, such as setting up a fence, so that things are properly regulated there. The proposal before us is very good from this point of view, and we will certainly support it. What has already been expressed on the committee and has already appeared here today, and this surprising self-criticism of the parties of the current opposition is called Left, SD, LMŠ and Alenka Bratušek, and there is an additional argument that I would like to particularly welcome. When the parties to the present opposition point to non-professional, weak and, in their opinion, also corruption in purchasing and setting up fences in the past, this is extremely good self-criticism, because it is those parties who have either been directly involved in these past governments, or were entirely dependent on them, such as the Left, the establishment of these governments, such as the LMŠ. And it was also up to them to the existence of these governments until the introduction of a new Olympic discipline, this is the rapid throwing of the rifle into the corn. Certainly this self - criticism is something to be greeted. I only hope that they will continue their conduct and that they will unitedly support a law that eliminates one of the shortcomings which, of course, should have been settled long ago by one of their governments, but unfortunately it was not able to do so professionally or on the human side. Now's our chance to work this out. In the SDS, we will unitedly support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is given by Rudy Medved, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, President. Technical obstacles or, simply put, fences at the border with Croatia once more, once less storm spirits. But the fact is, the fences are set there. If the information is correct now, it is about 250 kilometers long and the interior minister has announced the construction of another 50 kilometers. And since the fence runs on private land or mainly private land, it is, of course, necessary to pay compensation. After the fence was set up at the beginning, the payment stopped for a while. That is why, Mr Grims, to explain to you, the government of Marjana Sharca prepared an amendment to the State Border Control Act in 2019 and this National Assembly has adopted it. And this change has significantly simplified and accelerated the payment of compensation. So all you're talking about here right now about how something epochal means this change right now is speaking completely in mind. I signed the compensation payments myself as the Minister of Public Administration. And these payments ran continuously and smoothly to these landowners. And I believe this is happening now. Of course, there were some other cases in practice. This new law solves several cases without now solving compensation for all landowners. This payment has been going on permanently all the time. This novelty of the law now solves a number of technical matters that, of course, arise when a matter is settled. And of course, the government has responded accordingly and we have absolutely no problems in the LMŠ and we do not oppose this solution, because I believe that in those areas where the fences are now, it will solve the problems; but perhaps there will be new ones if the fence is to continue, and of course it will have to respond accordingly. And that's all about it. There are now some incompetences and I don't know what, but the fact is that the government of Marjana Sarca has continued the path of setting up these technical barriers; and in our mandate, we have bought and installed an additional 40 kilometres of these fences without an affair, with a transparent invitation to tender. And that's the whole story about it. But what the landowners and all of us as taxpayers are rightfully doing is, this incursion in these areas, that the fences are sometimes demolished, that they are partly carried away by the Kolpa River. And that this is simply not being remedied, that individual police administrations are now negotiating, at least we have such information, about who will now eat these fences, rather than having a public invitation to tender at the level of the State and that an operator chosen on such a call will take over the full implementation of all the parts related to these fences. Last year, the Minister of the Interior, I think, announced such a call, but we do not have any information on whether this call has ever actually been published and whether any of the operators now clean and repair these fences, because we are still receiving photos and still have images of the fences being healed and damaged in the media. And after all this time, since the fences are standing, of course, this is becoming really unacceptable. It will also be necessary to take responsibility for what is happening once these fences are placed on the border.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Secretary of State! We have before us a proposal to supplement the Law on the State Border, by which the Government wants to upgrade the regulatory legal basis for entering the service into the public benefit of the land book on the establishment of technical barriers also on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, this also constitutes a basis for the payment of compensation to the beneficiary. The applicant notes that the current regime does not regulate the situation with regard to already-written burdens and prohibitions on land where public service is to be entered into and on the basis of the contract under the negotiation procedure for the establishment of public service. The proposed amendment to the Law on State Border Control therefore lays down a normative basis for the incorporation of public service services on the basis of a public service contract for the purpose of putting temporary technical barriers in place, irrespective of any already registered prohibition of the alienation or burden on individual land. Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendments to the Law on State Border Control, but we hope that in recent years the provisions of the Law on State Border Control, which are related to amendments to the legislation of this area due to border fences, border access and border area regulation, have demonstrated all the problems and will be definitively closed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! The amendment of the law refers to the establishment of service in public benefit on border areas where for 6 years there have been cutting wires, panel fences and other forms of technical barriers. It is therefore an infringement of provisions which are already at issue in themselves. It is not to be forgotten that new and new repressive measures have been taken since 2015 in the light of the global anti-refugee hysteria. Therefore, we cannot deal with this law without refreshing the memory. The so-called refugee crisis has been misused for six years for the widespread increase in repression, which is directed not only against refugees but against all of us. The violence perpetrated by refugees along the entire Balkan refugee route is not only physical in the form of police violence, beatings, threats and the place of personal objects and money. After a refugee has managed to break through to Slovenia by some chance, he finally encounters violence packed in official bureaucrat Latvian. I explain some of the rejection decisions on the recognition of international protection, but we cannot say otherwise. Unless otherwise indicated, the Ministry of the Interior shall base the negative decision on the secret information of the Owl, which neither the applicant nor his counsel have seen. If the repression of refugees reached a critical point, it is already evident from official data. Throughout this year, 13 people received international protection by the end of August; 13. In the period until the end of July, police at the border treated 41% less illegal crossings than last year – 4 000 495. Of these, a thousand 857 have expressed their intention to apply for international protection. By the end of July, thousands of 831 people had also submitted this request, and only 13 had obtained it this year. 13, even though there are 750 of those applicants from Afghanistan. Let us therefore believe, for the first time, that 2 000 664 persons have not expressed their intention to submit international protection and that there is no forced and group return here, that there is no interference of applicants with the application and so on. We should simply believe that most of them after online happy coincidences actually manage to get to our border, they say, "Yeah, nothing, but I'm going back, I'm not going to apply for international protection. Secondly, should we really believe that out of the thousands of 857 applicants for international protection, only 13 persons meet the conditions for effective status gain?Oh, my God! Thousands of 844 people or 99.3% did not; despite the fact that quite 750 had fled from Afghanistan. Well, purely in the manner of xenophobic policies of this government, and in particular Minister Hojs of the Interior, the conditions for granting the status meet 0,7 % of persons. Here, for a sample. It's not just embarrassing, it's just bizarre. The only constant that we are witnessing is the widespread rise of repression against our own citizens, who Hojs sincerely and terribly wants to deepen for a verbal delicacy that we have so far successfully prevented in the opposition, and of course against refugees, over those who save lives naked. There's a wire on the border, that wire that was installed during Cerara's government time through suspicious transactions, transactions that were earned by friends of SMC, which was confirmed by the court. Slovenia has become so sophisticated, specialising in technical barriers and dealing with them that we are now exporting them to Lithuania. And even though numbers don't at all confirm some refugee crisis, business is too booming to stop it. Business is business. What, then, if human destiny is at stake, human life?Oh, my God! Of course, the novel does not state how many technical obstacles are already worth and how many more are going to be put in place. Nor does the law indicate how much foreign land the wire is placed on, how much land the service has been entered for the public benefit, how much it would cost us, who, and how much it earns with technical obstacles, how much it costs to set up and maintain, how much for compensation to landowners. None of that. All measures shall be taken without justification, without justification. However radical and repressive today's proposal does not at first sight appear to be, it must nevertheless be perceived in the broader context of the universal repression and the past changes to this same regime, so we will oppose it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The migration crisis and the illegal crossing of the state border, as we most felt by the border residents and residents, required Slovenia to establish certain measures to control the crossing of the Schengen border. The Republic of Slovenia has increased the presence of the police and the military at the border, which has been particularly well-adopted among residents at the border, and other measures have also been the installation of so-called technical barriers. The Slovenian border barrier or border fence was set by the 12th government in response to the European migration crisis. It is also necessary to establish a service on immovable property for the public benefit of their establishment and use. In the event of a real estate burden, the owners shall be entitled to payment of the compensation or compensation, but only when the registration of the service has been made in the Land Book. Under the current legislation, the service is a single right which can only be entered on the entire property share of the property and cannot be entered on its own property, the property of which is co-owner of the State. The bill we are considering today and submitted by the Government is correcting the error of the current regulation in which landowners who had a service entered into the land book for public benefit due to the technical obstacles put in place and whose land is co-owner of the country could not be compensated. The suppliers of the fence in 2015 and the current government have not definitively resolved the registration of the service, so today the existing legislation does not regulate the situation with regard to already-inscribed burdens and prohibitions on land where the service still needs to be entered into public benefit under a public service contract. Supplements will be made to the public benefit service and may be entered into on the basis of a public service contract, as a result of the temporary technical barriers put in place, irrespective of the already registered prohibition of the disposal or loading on a particular land. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats welcome the additions to the Law on State Border Control because they eliminate the current situation and, above all, bring about the following changes. Firstly, public service may also be established on a property owned by a service beneficiary — the State. Secondly, the public benefit service shall be entered on the property as a whole and for the benefit of the official beneficiary. Thirdly, a public service contract is the basis for its incorporation into the land book, irrespective of the already registered ban on land depriving and loading. And lastly, on the basis of public service, compensation can also be paid on property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Christian Democrats are committed to the consistent protection of the Schengen border in accordance with the applicable rules. We will always listen to citizens and citizens at the border and advocate for their safety. The step forward also constitutes the creation of the conditions for smooth regulation of the service necessary to set up the border fence. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group New Slovenia, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on State Border Control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the trade law in the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of three Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Branislav Rajic. The bill is at the 15th session of the 9th session. 9. 2021 was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u58	Your Honor! About one year ago, a novelty of the Trade Act was adopted, which established a ban on the operation of shops on Sundays and working days off. This sets out two general exceptions which do not make the prohibition applicable to shops in a specific location whose surface area does not exceed 200 square metres and the shops, irrespective of their location, provided that their surface area does not exceed 200 square metres, provided that their work is carried out by students and pensioners on Sundays or holidays in addition to managers. Only a few months later, additional exemptions with limited validity until the end of 2022 were introduced by the Ninth Anti-Korona Act, namely for airports, regardless of the size of the sales space, and for tourist information centre and museums. Today, on a proposal from unrelated Members, we have been interfering for a third time with the Article of the Trade Act, which prohibits Sunday's operation. The legal proposal extends the range of exceptions to shops in specific locations, including shops in camps, hotels, museums, galleries, tourist information centres and burial sites. The applicant would like to remove the criteria of up to 200 square metres for shops in specific locations, if they represent a combination of trade and other destinations. In addition, it introduces an additional exception, under which family members of managers may also perform Sunday work in trade. Let us recall that the current amendment to the law banning the Sunday and holiday work of trades has now received the support of 72 Members. Public research shows that Sunday's closing trade is supported by both traders and the general public. Novela has successfully passed even the judgment before the Constitutional Court, which has found that the free exercise of economic activity can be limited if this requires public benefit. In doing so, the public benefit of the employees was recognised in ensuring weekly workers' rest. In the past, the Constitutional Court has also repeatedly defined itself until the closing of trades on Sunday. His decisions so far show that the biggest challenge to constitutional compliance is precisely exceptions. Any additional exception due to a violation of the principle of equality risks the non-constitutionality of the law and thus the return of traders to their jobs on Sundays and holidays. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that the Constitutional Court repealed the law already in 2005, which prohibited Sunday's work and arbitrarily specified area of trade, which could exceptionally remain open. This is why it is so much more surprising to have a proposal from unrelated Members, which largely interferes with the square of shops in a way that not only compromises the constitutional compatibility of the law, but also opens up a number of possibilities to circumvent its provisions. In the SAB Group, we see the novelty of unrelated Members as an unwarranted legal solution, likely to be met by the earpiece of the Constitutional Court and the general public. Unfortunately, this earring would not hurt the proposer, but the merchant and merchants, because it would again deprive them of the right to a Sunday rest they had been waiting for for almost 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act was tabled only nine months after the adoption by the National Assembly of a new law prohibiting traders from fixing working hours for shops on Sundays and by law certain parts of days off with certain exceptions. The novel was adopted by 72 votes to none, with only 13 votes against. This time, the applicants want additional exceptions to the general ban on operating time on Sundays and working days, such exceptions also apply to shops in hotels, camps and tourist information centres and to shops at burial sites. They also propose a set of other exceptions, the main aim of which is to avoid the meaning of the law – banning unnecessary Sunday work. Since the adoption of the amendment to the Trade Act to date, we have found in Slovenia what it is like to prescribe a way of implementing a free economic initiative and how it is to assess the admissibility of its restrictions. This would not have been possible without the decisive role of the constitutional part of the judiciary. The right to a free economic initiative is guaranteed by the Constitution, which does not mean that both the establishment of economic operators and the exercise of economic activity can be completely free. The legislator shall have the power to regulate the exercise of the right to a free economic initiative when it comes to carrying out an economic activity. It thus establishes economic policy in specific areas of social life, which is considered to be the most appropriate to achieve general social well-being, with a broad field of discretion. The legislator can not only prescribe a way to exercise the right to a free economic initiative, but it can also restrict certain forms of entrepreneurship if there is a public benefit for this, such as protecting the health or life of people, protecting the nature, protecting consumers and, of course, protecting employees. The initiative to assess the constitutionality of the law, which significantly limited Sunday's work, was presented by four companies all involved in non-food trade. The main business includes the sale of sports equipment and exclusive clothing brands. The initiative did not involve traders with far-reaching employment and far-reaching sales areas. That's talk enough on its own. Especially is the hypocritical concern of employers against unequal treatment of workers employed in trade, with workers employed in other economic activities working on Sundays and working off days. Traders can't work, even if they want to, and they're not entitled to an allowance for Sunday work. Of course, no one ever thinks of telling you how much this fantastic addition to Sunday work is in the nominal amount. The Act on Complementation of the Trade Act, as adopted last year in the National Assembly, means nothing more than that one of the relevant factors in Slovenia, the National Assembly, has thus begun to raise problems about the fact that we are working on Fridays and holidays, on Sundays and holidays. Not only do employees work in activities that need to function, but they are employed in activities, such as trade, for which they do not need to provide their services even on Sundays, they take advantage of disability. The debate also showed how pointless it is for certain people in Slovenia to explain that, at the beginning of the organised labour movement, one of the fundamental requirements of regulation and, in particular, the limitation of working time was one of the basic requirements. However, working time must be regulated and limited due to the inalienable human right to rest. Massive unnecessary work on Sundays is socially harmful. Thousands of people who work instead of resting suffer social and family life. These people just don't have enough time for themselves, let alone their families. The vote on the proposed legislative changes on the Committee on the Economy was apparent. Of the 17 members of the committee, no one voted "yes" and 16 voted "against". Those who want it, especially those who can understand it, will understand. There is no help to one another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u62	Hello! Help always comes. Non-aligned Members are advocating a free economic initiative and such interventions by the State, which are proportionate, thoughtful and do not have negative economic consequences, especially at such a difficult time that we are in today. As a result of the epidemic, the Slovenian economy has in the last year been quite deformed, and the labour market is losing the ideal image that we have witnessed in the years before the outbreak. Therefore, our primary objective in the coming period must be to devote all our knowledge and activities to the preparation and implementation of as many measures as possible after the economic shock that will restart the Slovenian economy and put it in the old tracks. The closure of trades on Sundays and holidays, according to our assessment, has caused exactly the opposite effects, especially through reckless solutions, made the work of small trade craftsmen and entrepreneurs significantly and irrationally difficult. If we look at the figures, the revenues of traders have been reduced by 9% due to Sunday closure, and since last year, 14,000 people from trade activity have registered with the Employment Institute, which is otherwise 34% of the total revenue to the Slovenian economy. Moreover, traders observe that closing down shops on Sundays and holidays has already resulted in the outflow of purchasing power to neighbouring countries and increased shopping trips by Slovenians abroad. It is therefore not surprising that in the last year we have received initiatives where various trade and tourism providers point out that in practice some of the restrictions in the new Trade Act have proved to be completely pointless. They warn us of the damage that has been done to them, and at the same time they urge us to resolve the problem as soon as possible, or some of them will even be forced to close the doors of their shops. In line with the above, our novelty is primarily intended to resolve certain non-life restrictions laid down by the law in force. With the proposed novel, we wanted to come to the aid of micro- and small-scale traders, who were severely affected by the closure of trades, as the revenues generated by their business on Sundays and holidays were vital to them. By no means was our intention to undermine the fundamental rule of closing trade on Sundays and attacking family life and free time for workers and workers. It's cheap populism. Otherwise, we should be able to rationally explain the point of not selling a small souvenir, magnet or postcard to a tourist who can operate on Sundays. Or what's the point of family members not being able to help the owner of the family store that we've allowed to be open on Sundays because it's small enough. Or what's the point of museums not selling a small duplicate of Ivana Kobilce's coffee shop, known all over the world, on Sundays. Why exhaust a new terminal at the airport and allow it to operate on Sundays for just one year? Regardless of the anger of fellow Members and colleagues who, in the spirit of populism, stressed the advantages of closing trade on Sundays, we are supported by a number of economic stakeholders, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small Dealers, many public tourist establishments and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia strengthens our conviction that we have proposed thoughtful and rational exceptions to the general closure of trade on Sundays. Not every capitalist is corrupt and exploiting his employees. A SMC party also contributed to the rejection of the novel, which repeatedly stresses that it is a liberal economic and political partner to the Slovenian economy. But, look at the fraction, when voting on the novel, SMC members showed their primary propensity for the coalition dictatorship. They did not support even the smallest, for a wide range of trade and tourism providers of key legislative changes that would contribute to job conservation, increased demand and consumption and increased economic growth. In practice, the flossules that are used to be good for economic operators do not apply as much as the ink was used in the printing of their statements. It is shocking how low submission can be, that Members of the SMC have rejected even their own proposals, which they have defended on their own last year and which the Ministry of Economy has also advocated. Now they don't feel like the proposer of this law. The novels were not supported, despite the knowledge that these are measures that will help the economy and that these changes were favoured by the economic passengers they are betting on. The economy may rightly wonder whether the SMC by such actions is indeed a political partner that craftsmen and entrepreneurs can trust. Whoever betrayed someone will soon be crystallized, even though a new dress is already being sewn for the purposes of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Your Honors are here! Members, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party, last year in the National Assembly, you officially legalised the closure of trade on Sundays. Everything's fine and well, everyone has an opinion. Except for certain exceptions – small shops, gas stations, stations and shops in hospitals – you stopped working in shops on Sundays. In the Slovenian National Party, we were not against the welfare of workers employed in trade, but against the economic damage caused by such legislation, economic damage, which is also known to our Slovenian workers in trades. The opening of certain trades on Sundays, in the case of hotels, camps and other exceptions, as proposed by unrelated Members, would have more positive than negative effects. The economy would be better, and consumers would be better off, and ultimately workers would be themselves. The Slovenian national party also had a very good proposal to allow for an exemption at least during the month of December, during the largest purchases, and to open trade. With the amendment, which you unfortunately rejected, we wanted merchants in December, I repeat, to be able to decide for themselves what their operating time would be; and only this. This is not only extremely important in December for their business model and the economy as a whole, but also for revenue in the state budget. No one wants the exploitation of Slovenian workers and any coercion to burn Slovenians who work in stores without a proper rest. However, it was only necessary to stress that if trade were open in December, this did not mean forcing a Slovenian worker to work without rest. Some can take a well-deserved rest during the week, not necessarily on Sunday. Some even fit a free day during the week, since then they have less stress on trips or similar activities. In food trade, revenues were higher by 17.9% compared to the remaining months of the year and in electronic and household appliances stores by 36.2%. In view of these statistics of previous years, a similar projection of increased consumption in December is also expected in the future. In three months we will have such a negative impact on the gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia and consequently the standard of living of the Slovenes. It is also true that, in December, especially before and during the beginning of the Advent, people will choose to buy abroad on Sundays rather than in other months. This means that due to the loss of Slovenia's income on a better trader and through taxes, the state treasury will be the neighbouring Austria and Croatia. And somewhere else. Thus, we have not reduced our demand for purchases to Slovenian consumers, only to redirect it to the benefit of neighbouring economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the guests! Colleagues and colleagues! The Trade Act was adopted for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia in 1993. Since then, however, there have been several amendments, particularly in the field of trade time. This area has received the most controversy throughout history, and the Constitutional Court has carried out several judgments on the provisions relating to operating time. The legislator has received several legislative proposals and initiatives. In 2003, a referendum was held in which voters decided to close trade on Sunday, with 57.53% of their votes "for". The current Trade Act was adopted on 29 September 2020 and provided that the trader of the operating time of the shop should not set off on Sundays and by law certain parts of the day off. Except for the prescribed exceptions on Sundays and on days off, where there are up to 200 square metres and are located in areas of petrol services, border crossings, ports intended for public transport, airports, railway and bus stations and hospitals; they have an area of sales space of up to 200 square metres if, on Sundays and days off, the work is performed exclusively by a person who, as a single entrepreneur, carries out a commercial activity or his procurator or legal representative or procurator of a legal person engaged in a commercial activity, a student, a student or a pensioner who carries out temporary or occasional work with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič is next to present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We changed the Trade Act in the National Assembly recently when we realized almost 20 years old majority decision of citizens and citizens from the Consultative Referendum. Thus, on Sundays and holidays, only those trades for which the law specifically permits can be opened. The purpose of such an arrangement is not only to take into account the will of the Slovenian people, but also to protect the rights of workers in the trade sector. It turned out that we were getting used to changing working hours of trade very quickly, so there were no complications or inconveniences due to the new regime. Finally, the constitutional assessment of such an arrangement submitted by 17 companies was rejected at the Constitutional Court. In short, according to the proposal of the applicant, exceptions would also apply to shops in hotels, camps and tourist information centres, as well as to shops at burial sites. As an exception, a combination of trade and other dedicated premises exceeding 200 square metres was proposed. With the amendment on the home work body, there was an additional exception for shopkeepers in museums and galleries, and the proposal was intended to allow working on Sundays and working days also for family members of business operators. This last observation that family members are unable to work on Sundays after the current arrangement is not true, since the law on prevention of work makes this exception possible. A family member of the store owner may carry out a short-term work of 40 hours per month. This means that each family member could work every Sunday for 10 hours. Also, the fact that closing down shops on Sundays in camps and hotels is a lower degree of comfort for these accommodations is not true. In the classification that sets the standards for, for example, camps and hotels, it is not required that trade in these accommodation facilities is opened 7 days a week, For an adequate high rating is enough already that trade is there. In the opinion of the LMŠ, the legal regime, as adopted by the last amendment to the Trade Act, is appropriate and we believe that further extension of exemptions is particularly dangerous from the point of view of the constitutionality of the legislation already adopted, and therefore we have not supported the proposed changes on the labour market. Finally, on a proposal from the novel, a number of substantive comments and warnings on possible unconstitutionality were also made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which the proposer did not take into account or abolish. Also because of the latter and everything previously mentioned in the LMŠ Group, we have decided that it is more correct and responsible to propose the amendment of the Trade Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After the National Assembly last year passed the law on the will of the people and adopted the regulation that closed the trade on Sundays, the law was also passed the Constitutional Court’s judgment. The latter considered that, for reasons of public benefit, the legislator could also cut into a free economic initiative by limiting working time, for example, trade. Both the practice and the decision of the Constitutional Court have shown that the regime adopted is appropriate and attains the objectives for which it was adopted. This is the right to a Sunday break for employees in commercial activities. The adoption of the law and the subsequent amendments under the intervention laws have enabled the Sunday closure of most major trades and trade centres, while allowing for sufficient exceptions that neither the free economic initiative nor the freedom of work are at risk. The current law allows the owners of small shops to do Sunday and holiday work in the store themselves or with the assistance of procurists and occasional work of students, pensioners or unemployed persons. With additions to the CAP laws, exceptions previously hampered the sales, within airports, museums, tourist information centres and the like have also been added. We therefore assess that the current regime is achieving its purpose and does not constitute an excessive obstacle for operators. Consumer care is possible and there are also sufficient exceptions that allow sellers to properly organise working hours. And that's our firm belief, it doesn't come from populism. In our view, however, the additional exceptions that the applicant would like to add to the law are simply not necessary. Their adoption could lead to the dilution of existing solutions and pave the way for new requirements, adaptations and possible constitutional assessments. Additional exemptions would not constitute a regulation of the situation for existing entities, but would only create pressure for the construction of specially adapted commercial facilities that would satisfy the statutory exceptions, which would, of course, mean that the legal solutions in force would be fully divorcised. Dearly noted, similar treatment has also identified a parent working body that has not voted in favour of the law, and this proposal is ending the legislative procedure today. The current regulation of entrepreneurs does not unduly limit the free economic initiative and enables urgent care for all categories of consumers. It also adequately and proportionately limits the pressure on the Sunday part of employees in commercial activities. Further amendments to the rules should therefore, in our view, be sought primarily in the direction of ensuring weekly rest and the right to spend free time with all other workers and workers who also work on Sundays and holidays, but not in the context of commercial activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We have been talking about closing trade on Sundays for 20 years, since the referendum in 2003, where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia supported closing trade on Sundays with a large majority. And for the next 20 years, all public polls have shown that people have not changed this opinion, although many people agree to go to the store on Sundays, they support the closure of trades with a 70-, 80-percent majority. This is logical, for people understand that the right to rest is a first and basic labour right and that the right to rest and to a free week is a condition of a good life. Store employees, although often working for minimum wages, lived in a system that denied them this right. They worked from Friday to Christmas, on Sundays they had no time for themselves, for their families, for their friends, and very often there was exhaustion, depression, and early retirement. On the initiative of the Left, we adopted a law one year ago that abolishes this anomaly in the system. Also, tens of thousands of shopkeepers have now finally, in the last year, gained the right to a week off. And this law applies this fundamental right to rest and to a week off. The novels produced by the unaffiliated sound quite sound on paper. We would allow a few exceptions to the camps, the airport, tourist information centres and so on, but the problem with this novelty is that it's actually a mine for the whole arrangement. The law, which is currently in force and was adopted last year at the initiative of the Left, has passed an assessment at the Constitutional Court and, with additional exceptions in law, the constitutionality of this law and the current regulation could be undermined. And I estimate that the intention of the applicants was to undermine the whole arrangement, to make the law unconstitutional, and thus, by agreement with the Chamber of Commerce, to allow the Constitutional Court to again have an opinion that this novel would probably not have stopped and that the employees in the shops would have gone back to work on Sundays. We are therefore pleased that the law on the committee was unanimously rejected. 15 votes against, no vote, no vote against. This gives me optimism, especially because, frankly, I was concerned that in a schizophrenic situation where the same National Assembly, the same Members, the same people who voted in favour last year – you know that this is often the case for us to support – we have now changed our opinion and allowed the suspension of the regime that we adopted last year and the employees in the stores to work back on Sundays. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc will be presented as the last position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor! The Group of Unaffiliated Members has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a Trade Act, which is intended to legislate additional exceptions to the ban on setting working hours on Sundays and working off days. Exceptions would also apply to shops in hotels, campsites, tourist information centres and shops at burial sites offering articles intended for grave management. Savings time could be set without limitation not only in shops which are made up of exceptions and which have a sales space of up to 200 square metres, but also in shops that represent a combination of trade and other destinations, such as catering venues, waiting rooms and so on, which together exceed that square. However, family stores should also be allowed to work on Sundays and holidays by family members of the trader and family members of the legal representative of the legal person who carries out the trade activity. Members of New Slovenia did not support the draft law on the home working body. At the end of last year, however, we were pleased to support the Trade Act, which, with only a few minor exceptions, finally legitimized the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who decided most of the Sunday trade closures in the previous legislative referendum of the year 2003. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that we need to weigh more values in the legal regulation of the possibility of trading on Sundays, and we do not take this lightly. On the one hand, we have a restriction on business freedom of trade to freely determine our operating time; on the other hand, we have the possibility of providing Sunday rest for traders and traders and the possibility of spending Sunday with their loved ones. By restricting trade on Sundays, we have certainly contributed to the unifying of society as regards Sunday as a day of rest, and on Sunday we have made it possible for many traders and traders in the society closest to them. When we weigh this family value with business freedom of trade until Sunday’s operation, however, the weight leans on the side of the family’s values. A family that is the foundation on which our society is built. And only if this foundation is solid will the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy be able to operate in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, to further explain the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u76	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act are prepared with the aim of transposing European legislation with a view to three further amendments and supplementing Directive 2009/65/EC on the harmonisation of laws and regulations on collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities. The proposed amendments are part of the European Commission's actions to allow for a level playing field between EU capital markets and to remove obstacles to the free movement of mutual funds units while ensuring greater investor protection. The draft law sets out in more detail the rules for the management company of the Member State concerning the marketing of mutual funds units in Slovenia. All relevant information must be provided to Slovenian investors alone or through an authorised other person in the Slovenian language. The management company must inform the competent authority of the proposed changes within the prescribed time limit. The amendment lays down the conditions for the cancellation of the marketing of mutual funds units, thereby eliminating the confusion on the capital market in the event of an uneven regulation. A more detailed regulation is also proposed in the work of the Taxation of the Securities Market Agency, subject to changes in important facts. It is set a 15-day period within which the Agency must inform the management company that it must not introduce a planned change in the event that the management company no longer meets the conditions laid down in the rules governing its operation. Other amendments are proposed in order to harmonise the condition regarding the minimum capital of the management company as well as the conditions regarding the amount of the own funds of the management company in each issuer’s bonds. With a view to equal treatment of investors throughout the European Union, the content of the marketing of the mutual fund is governed by Regulation 2019/1156/EU, which was adopted in a package with a directive which is transposed into this law. The Regulation lays down marketing principles in order to ensure that investors are as protected as possible, namely, market messages must represent the risks and benefits of purchasing units in mutual funds. All information in market messages must also be fair, clear and not misleading. The primary objective of this novel is therefore to comply with the EU acquis, so I propose that you support the proposal for a law. The honourable President, honourable Members and Members, the Government, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, which governs the reduced procedure, expects that a third section of the draft law will also be held in the framework of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you, mag. Maja Hostik Kališek. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 36th meeting, on 7 September this year, the Financial Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. It was submitted to the National Assembly for adoption following a reduced procedure by the Government. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members' Groups, to the 10th Article. In its introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill, which is to harmonise national legislation with the European acquis. In presenting the solutions to the bill, it highlighted in particular the higher protection of investors and the rules and conditions for marketing units of collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had drawn up a written opinion and explained that most of the comments tabled by the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC were taken into account. In the debate, some Members pointed to Article 6 of the draft law, which deletes Article 130 of the basic law, which sets out precise guidelines for advertising investment funds. They highlighted the issue of consumer protection against vague and misleading advertising. They wanted clarifications as to where the directive defined and defined the scope of the advertising of investment funds. In the discussion below, Members welcomed the harmonisation of legislation within the European Union and the transposition of European Union directives into national law. In additional explanations, the State Secretary first stated that Article 130 is deleted as a result of the deletion in the European Directive. However, the representative of the Securities Market Agency further explained that the advertising rules would be provided with binding guidelines, including alternative investment funds or professional investors. At the same time, he pointed out that the State regulator, the real Securities Market Agency, would ensure the establishment of a system that would protect investors in the funds. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted all 10 amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Polnar to present the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The new legislation on the market for financial instruments, which falls under the law that we are considering today, gives rise to the hope that the old big mistake will not recur. The basic texts of the laws and their amendments are based on the knowledge of the correctness of the conclusion that one is a known objective, and something else is completely different how to achieve this objective. Everything they've told us in a good decade and a half in the last decade and a half has been a lie. The markets did not operate on their own, but the creators of financial instruments were not infallible geniuses. In fact, we discovered that money was a political instrument; it was possible to invent billions of euros overnight, which also disappeared overnight, provided that they agreed or wanted a government or a central bank. The global financial masters have convinced the public that their models are working well and that risk-prevention techniques and methods of dispersion are developed to perfection. They all acted as if they understood the complicated models on which esoteric financial instruments were based. The financial balance of skills has expressed victory over common sense. True, it is difficult to oppose someone who in a year on New York Wall Street or London City earns as much as a university professor in his entire life. At such a level of thinking, it is easy to make a mistake, so that recklessness and impudence turn into a mind, knowledge, and virtue. Inadequate regulation of financial activities does not only affect illegal practices, but rather promotes excessive speculation in those who constantly rush for earnings. At the end of 2020, investment firms managed financial instruments worth €17 billion and €600 million for customers in Slovenia. Of this, there were 14 billion and 200 million in domestic financial instruments. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act was prepared to harmonise our legislation with the European acquis. The amendment deals with the transposition into the Slovenian legal order of three directives in the work relating to collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities and management companies. The proposed amendments aim to allow for a level playing field between the capital markets of the European Union and to remove obstacles to the free movement of collective investment units while ensuring greater investor protection. The draft law sets out in more detail the rules for the management company of the Member State concerning the marketing of its units of collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities in Slovenia. It is specified that the management company must inform the competent authority of the proposed changes within the prescribed time limit and provide all information to Slovenian investors in the Slovenian language. The conditions for the cancellation of the marketing of collective investment firms units for investments in transferable securities are also laid down. However, the conditions regarding the amount of the own funds of the management companies and the conditions for those companies to invest their own resources in each issuer’s bonds also change. Any decision to participate in the market for financial instruments is linked to risk preparedness. An assessment of the Slovenian Financial Stability Committee and on its behalf of the Securities Market Agency may also be sent to investors. In the mutual fund market, the most important risks are liquidity and marketed as high-risk risks. Members of the Desus Group will support amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Marco Pogačnik. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u82	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The key reason for the amendment is the incorporation of the European Directive into the law itself. The main solutions to the proposed amendments are to provide for the procedure of the supervisory authority with regard to branches in management, to ensure that all information on changes is received, to delete the authorisation provisions in national legislation, and to amend the conditions for the marketing of units. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that these changes or the introduction of the European Directive will bring even better, even more stable legislation, and in particular that they will protect both the provider of these solutions and the user himself. For all these reasons, we will support the amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! The amendment deals with the transposition into the Slovenian legal order of three directives. In addition, the conditions for the marketing of UCITS units are laid down, i.e. funds intended to jointly invest funds collected in the public, transferable securities or other liquid financial assets operating under the risk-sharing principle. At the end of 2020, five companies were operating in the Republic of Slovenia to manage their headquarters in the Republic of Slovenia, which operated 82 mutual funds or umbrella fund sub-funds. 111 funds from other EU Member States marketed in the Republic of Slovenia were also notified. The draft law amends the conditions for the marketing of UCITS units in the Republic of Slovenia, following in particular the provision of information to investors, the manner in which the repurchase order and the payment of units are awarded. In the debate at the Committee on Finance, we highlighted Article 6 of the amendment in the LMŠ, which provides for the deletion of the current Article 130. This article defined that the advertising of the investment fund, inter alia, must be clear, unequivocal and without deceiving the content of the advertisement. As this article is deleted by the amendment, we have expressed our concern about how this change will protect consumers. Especially in the light of the fact that trust in mutual funds has recently increased and investment has increased. On the question of whether this protection is now properly regulated by any other provision or regulation, the representative of the Securities Market Agency replied to us that advertising control is being addressed in a European regulation which entered into force in early August and that advertising is very well regulated and that it essentially builds on what has been written in this article. In addition, the European Securities and Markets Authority has drawn up guidelines that further specify the characteristics of individual advertisements. The Agency will now also transpose these guidelines into a sub-legislative act. Since our concerns have been properly answered, we will not oppose the proposal of the LMŠ in the Group of Members of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Horvat. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act transposes three directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order. One is from June 2019 and is about cross-border distribution of collective investment firms; the other is from November 2019 and is about prudential supervision of investment firms; the third is also from November 2019 and talks about issuing covered bonds and public control of covered bonds. All three Directives shall be transposed in part concerning collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities. This is an open investment fund that collects assets publicly and also applies to management companies. The following solutions regarding investment funds and management companies will be introduced into the Slovenian legal order. The conduct of the supervisory authority shall be regulated, that is, the Securities Market Agency, after receiving information on changes concerning the management branch of the management company in the host Member State. If, due to changes, the management company or the mutual fund no longer complies with the legal requirements, the Agency shall inform the company within 15 days that the amendments are not implemented. Otherwise, the Agency shall take appropriate control measures, including an explicit marketing ban where necessary. Next, certain provisions governing the way the investment fund is advertised are deleted. The conditions for marketing units of collective investment firms to invest in transferable securities of another Member State in Slovenia have changed. This is mainly followed by the provision of information to investors. Provisions have been added concerning the cancellation of the marketing of collective investment units for investment in transferable securities of a Member State in Slovenia. The owners of units from Slovenia shall be warned in advance that they may apply for payment for a period of at least 30 working days without exit costs. As can be seen from the above, this is a technical law. However, it is of course a very important law and we estimate that it was well prepared for the three directives to be well implemented in the Slovenian legal order. Therefore, the support of the New Slovenia Group will also be unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, which has been tabled by the Government in the procedural procedure and whose main purpose is to transpose into our legal order the content of certain directives of the European Union, which in one way or another concern the functioning of investment funds and management companies. In the framework of these Directives, inter alia, we transpose into our legal order laws relating to the cross-border distribution of collective social enterprises, prudential supervision, investment firms and the issuance of covered bonds and the public control of those bonds. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we understand the content of these Directives as part of the effort towards a safer, more prudent and transparent operation of investment firms as guardians. The new law also provides for, inter alia, a change in the terms and conditions for the marketing of collective investment firms units to invest in transferable securities of the Member State of the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia, followed in particular by the provision of information to investors regarding the repurchase and redemption of those units. The conditions regarding the amount of the own funds of the management companies and the conditions of those companies with regard to investments of own funds in the bonds of each issuer shall be changed. The draft law also specifies the conduct of the supervisory authority after receiving all information on changes concerning the branch of the management company in the host Member State. We believe that any effort to strengthen control, which is more appropriate and more organised by all legislative adaptations, is a positive news for the transparency of the capital market as a whole of the Union, and this ultimately indirectly reflects in the higher stability of the business environment of our companies that are doing so. In the SMC Group, we believe that the solutions proposed under this law are good, as they will effectively gain regulation of business and investment funds and management companies in our country. We therefore understand the bill as part of the effort to strengthen and develop capital markets themselves, which will be the basis for a healthy and development-oriented economy at the time of recovery from the epidemic. On the basis of these facts, we will support the amendment of the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will be the last to present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u90	Your Honor! In view of the amendments to the European directives, the National Parliament is today considering the amendment of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The amendments to the Directives form part of the European Commission's actions aimed at allowing for a level playing field between the European Union's capital markets and removing obstacles to the free movement of collective investment undertakings' units. The free movement of capital markets within the Union, on the other hand, requires an even higher level of investor protection, resulting in an novelty in addition to establishing uniform rules and conditions for the marketing of collective enterprise units for investment and transferable securities, systematically introduces better control over these undertakings, including control over the issue of bonds. These regulatory changes also provide a higher degree of stability for these companies. The note amends the procedures for notifying changes in respect of the competent authority of the Fund, the conditions regarding the amount of the own funds of the management companies and the conditions of the management companies with regard to own funds investments in the bonds of each issuer. The new deletes the provision of a law setting out precisely the guidelines for the advertising of the investment fund. In the SAB, the deletion of this provision does not coincide with the objective of the novel, which follows the higher protection of investors. The dilemma arises whether uneducated investors will be sufficiently protected from vague and misleading advertising. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments to almost all articles of the law. The essential observation relates to the fact that such complex provisions have been left without any substantive explanation. The norm without clearly expressed content and purpose constitutes a danger, so that the implementation of the law itself as its survival is in the event of a Constitutional Court’s judgment. There is no doubt that the protection of investors on the one hand also requires effective and dissuasive standards that eliminate violations or abuses of existing rules by management companies, but, as it is said, this objective will not be achieved without appropriate and clear legislation. Due to all the expressed and reasoned concerns, the SAB Group will not support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the management of alternative investment funds. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Maja Hostik Kališek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u92	Your Honor! The draft law before you transposes two European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order in the work governing the manager of alternative investment funds, namely Directive 2019/1160 on cross-border distribution of collective investment firms and Directive 2019/2034 on prudential supervision of investment firms. This time, the proposed amendments and additions to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Act are part of the European Commission's actions aimed at: facilitating a level playing field between capital markets; removing obstacles to the free movement of alternative investment funds units; and ensuring greater investor protection. The draft law thus introduces the prior marketing of AIF operators, by which operators will be able to verify in advance whether professional investors have an interest in investing in alternative investment funds. The amendment also lays down the conditions for the withdrawal of AIF units, as these conditions have not been uniformly regulated within the EU so far. This amendment further regulates the notification to the Securities Market Agency of changes in the relevant facts and sets a 15-day deadline within which the Agency must inform the alternative investment fund manager not to introduce a planned change in the event that the operator does not then comply with the rules governing the operation of the AIF operator. Furthermore, the draft law harmonises the conditions for the minimum capital of the AIF operator as laid down in Directive 2019/2034. Changes are also a matter of defining a professional party that is in line with European legislation, as different definitions present a problem in the direct application of EU legislation setting out individual market obligations for non-professional customers. The primary objective of this novel is therefore to comply with the EU acquis, so I propose that you support the proposal for a law. The honourable President, honourable Members and Members, since the draft law is being examined in a simplified manner, the Government proposes that, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly governing the reduced procedure, a third consideration of this proposal of the law be carried out within the framework of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Also in the case of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Act, the Finance Committee held a debate at its 36th meeting on 7 September this year. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the proposal for this Act have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members' groups, in accordance with Article 7. In its introduction, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill, which aligns the real order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union by transposing the two directives. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had drawn up a written opinion and explained that most of the comments tabled by the amendments tabled by the members of the groups were taken into account. It also announced an extensive final text in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In the debate, some Members expressed opposition to the bill because they believe that we will also be able to invest in alternative investment funds by non-professional investors. These funds were considered to promote high-risk investments, where higher returns are expected at the expected higher risk, of course. In doing so, they also highlighted the issue of the activities of the Funds, in particular those managing real estate. On the contrary, some other Members felt that capital markets needed to develop and be adequately regulated. It is clear that alternative investment funds have a certain risk. The fact that investment in this type of financial instrument is increasing has been highlighted, which means that the attitude of Slovenians towards risk investments has changed and capital market regulation and supervision are therefore very important. In the additional explanations, the representative of the Securities Market Agency explained the definition of a professional investor in alternative investment funds, which is, however, very precisely set out in the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments. All other investors that do not meet certain conditions there are non-professional investors who will only invest in those funds that will be under the supervision of the Securities Market Agency and only in products that are licensed. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u96	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Alternative Investment Funds Managers. The aim of the bill is to remove legal obstacles to the cross-border distribution of investment funds in the European Union and to enable them to be distributed more easily, faster and cheaper across borders. The further development of the Capital Markets Union will reduce the fragmentation of capital markets, remove legal barriers to finance the economy and increase the availability of capital for businesses. These proposals do not significantly affect the management system of alternative investment funds, but provide more efficient management and control of such funds through minor improvements and corrections. For all of this, we will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! In the LMŠ Group, the purpose of amending the law is understood in particular as another measure by the European Commission, which provides for more efficient management and control in the capital market of investment funds. Since these are generally investments that do not belong to traditional investment types, such as investments in shares, bonds or money operated by mutual funds, but are investments in real resources such as non-listed companies, claims or real estate, regulation is even more necessary in our view. It is clear to all that there is an increased risk for alternative investment funds, as is usually the case with more well-established funds. Taking into account the fact that investment in alternative investment funds is also increasing in our country, it means that the ratio of Slovenians to risk and more profitable investments has changed and that capital market regulation and supervision are still important. The definition of a new Article 34a defining prior marketing in practice means the provision of information and communications on investment strategies or investment ideas addressed to potential professional investors in the Republic of Slovenia. This means, in fact, that it can only be carried out in the case of professional investors and can be carried out by alternative investment fund managers established in the European Union. The purpose of prior marketing is to verify the interests of investors and does not yet constitute an investment offer. It is precisely due to the high risk that such investments pose to non-professional investors that the Securities Market Agency should monitor the functioning of registered alternative investment fund managers and require them to market their units consistently only and only professional investors. The definition of a professional investor in alternative investment funds is very precise. All other non-compliant investors are non-professional investors and will only be able to invest in funds controlled by the Securities Market Agency and products licensed. In view of the above, in particular with regard to the development of the capital market, the regulation provided for in both Directives should be transposed into Slovenian legislation. Assuming that the scope of this kind of trade will continue to increase in the future, it must be in everyone's interest that our capital market will also be more stable and under the lesser influence of poor financial practices, which have been far too much for us so far. Therefore, in the LMŠ Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Alternative Investment Funds Managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will move forward with the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. This law transposes into the Slovenian legal order two European directives regulating the area of capital markets and the management of alternative investment funds. We won't support the novel in Levica. However, the main reason is that alternative investment funds are provided for new products that can also be marketed to non-professional investors. Thus, if they had previously only been able to market professional investors, they could now be unprofessional if they had a stake of more than 50,000 euros, which would bring more risks. The first risk is that this can mean a flight of capital from domestic banks. In fact, anyone who has more than 50,000 euros in savings on the bank is either afraid of inflation or is too small in interest on bank savings for it will probably choose to invest in alternative investment funds. The other risk involved is where these funds invest. They often invest in real estate and we already have a problem in the Slovenian real estate sector. Especially in urban centres, in Ljubljana and on the coast, the prices of real estate are rising, capital is flowing there, savings are flowing there, with a number of negative consequences. On the one hand, these are non-productive investments. In fact, the capital invested in old-town apartments in Ljubljana does not in any way promote social productivity or bring any benefits. The only thing we have out of this is higher real estate prices, which naturally attract more investment. Speculative investors hope that the price increase of real estate will not stop, and this is the perpetuum of the mobile. On the other hand, we have people, young families, and so on, who are unable to afford these apartments because of higher prices. And as it is said, these are not just unprofitable investments, they are investments that also have harmful social consequences, specifically the lack of access to housing. We have been detained in Levica, as we are generally reserved for the spread of financial capitalism. Not only in Slovenia, but in Europe in general, a model is increasingly being established, where owners are no longer individual capitalists, nor people from local communities, nor the country; they are owners of investment funds, which are the nameless capital in the most real sense of the word. Often they do not care what the social impact of their business is or what is produced in companies where they have investments; the only criterion to be considered is profitability. And if we want to change this system, we will have to ask ourselves a fundamental question, and that is – Who is the responsible owner? Who can the owners responsible for the country be said to pay taxes to local communities and ultimately to the environment? And if anything, financial capitalism has so far proven to fall on all three of these tests. As we say, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers brings certain provisions of the two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to alternative investment fund managers into the Slovenian legal order. The purpose of the amendments to the law is to remove legal barriers to the cross-border distribution of investment funds in the European Union and to allow for simpler, faster and cheaper cross-border distribution. The changes are part of the European Commission's actions to deepen the Capital Markets Union with a view to reducing the fragmentation of capital markets, removing legal barriers to finance the economy and increasing the availability of capital for businesses. With the coalition amendments, in the second reading, we have addressed some of the shortcomings and uncertainties in the text of the bill. We therefore improved the law because the amendments were adopted. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we estimate that the transposition of these two directives into the Slovenian legal order is consistent and therefore the law has our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you again for the floor, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, other present, very nice greeting! In this case, too, we are deciding on a proposal for a law, namely alternative investment fund managers, whose main objective is to remove legal barriers to cross-border distribution of investment investment funds in the European Union, thus allowing for simpler, cheaper and faster overdistribution. We understand the changes as part of the European Commission's efforts to reduce the fragmentation of capital markets through the removal of legal barriers, resulting in greater capital availability for various companies' projects. High-risk investments today drive a very high, large and important part of the economy. Investments in technological development, ideas or other investment projects may be involved. Today, many such breakthrough projects in capital intensive industries need funds. However, since it is a matter of investing in projects with a less clearly defined timeline and greater opportunities for failure, for a slightly different type of investment, it is important to clearly define the rules of the game. It is therefore in the interest of the economy to focus some of the inputs also on projects and sectors that we associate with a higher level of risk. Investments by alternative investment funds usually compensate their slightly different investment structure with a different premium that investors receive on their investment. For this reason, it is particularly important that basic and urgent information on investments is available to all market players. In order to ensure a higher level of transparency, the amendment provides for the provision of information to the Securities Market Agency on changes in important facts relating to alternative investment fund managers and the conditions relating to the minimum capital of the fund managers will be harmonised. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the amendment provides both security and the best conditions for investors, while in the legislation relating to the management of alternative investment funds it introduces transparency and the possibility of effective supervision. The past experience has taught us how important access to information sources is for businesses, so all efforts towards homogenising capital markets in the European Union's common area are very welcome, as they allow investors to choose between a wider range of investments and companies to finance themselves from a variety of – key – financial resources. On the basis of the above facts, we will unanimously support the amendment of the law in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u106	Your Honor! The new law is being adopted in a package with the amendment we have considered at the previous point, which is due to the transposition of the European directives into national law. Its main aim is to remove legal barriers to the cross-border distribution of investment funds in the European Union and to allow for cheaper, simpler and faster cross-border distribution. The changes are part of the European Commission's actions to deepen the Capital Markets Union, with a view to reducing their fragmentation, removing legal barriers, financing the economy and increasing the availability of capital for businesses. These legislative changes are not such as to significantly interfere with the system of management of alternative investment funds, but rather to ensure, through better prudential supervision, a greater degree of fund stability, while ensuring more efficient management and supervision of these funds. The fact is that the law regulates funds intended for professional investors. This is a fund that promotes high-risk investments, where higher risk is also accompanied by higher profitability. Such risk investments are certainly not suitable for uneducated investors, so the novelty must contain a clear limit that will deter uneducated investors from such investments. The market regulation must be such as to protect uneducated investors as much as possible, but this will not be possible if alternative funds are allowed to market their services to uneducated investors. Despite the fact that we are also implementing a directive of the European Union, which we support with the present amendment, we will not support the novelties because of the previously mentioned concern in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At the end of 2020, the volume of resources in the management of alternative investment fund managers based in the Republic of Slovenia amounted to EUR 229 million. This is a slightly less than 35% increase compared to the previous year. High growth is expected as it is a relatively young sector in the area of collective property management. However, the extent of the funds raised in alternative investment funds still covers a very small share in the total volume of assets in the collective asset management sector and therefore does not constitute an important risk factor in itself. For example, the overall risk assessment of the mutual fund industry remains at a very high level due to the growing disparities between the growth of global markets and the financial performance of companies. It is certain that the past economic and financial crisis has shown that existing macroeconomic models and financial theory are not able to explain processes that distance the prices of financial instruments from their fundamental values. This needs to be understood in the light of political efforts to strengthen the regulation of financial markets. The objective is an economic policy based on macroeconomic models that take much more into account business cycles and any type of instability, in particular those leading to financial crises. By amending the law, two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council from 2019 are transposed into the Slovenian legal order, both relating to alternative investment fund managers. The proposed amendments aim to allow for a level playing field between the capital markets of the European Union, to remove obstacles to the free movement of alternative investment funds units and to ensure greater investor protection. This will ensure more efficient management and control of such funds. Some additional solutions for alternative investment fund managers will be introduced into the Slovenian legal order. They will be allowed to market in advance and will also be subject to conditions. In this way, operators will be able to verify in advance whether potential professional investors have an interest in investing in or in their sub-fund. Conditions will also be laid down for the cancellation of the marketing of units of alternative investment funds, so that the manager of this fund will not be allowed to carry out the prior marketing of units. The unanimity of these conditions has so far caused considerable difficulties and confusion in the capital market. In addition, information to the Securities Market Agency on changes in important facts relating to alternative investment fund managers will be provided. The role of the national regulator is thus strengthened and the conditions for the minimum capital level of the fund manager will also be harmonised. European legislation also harmonises the definition of a professional client, as different definitions have led to operational difficulties so far. Members of the Desus Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on amendments to the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of 13 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. At its 15th session, on 2 September, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I hereby give the text to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, Mrs Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u110	Nicely greeted! The law proposed in the LMŠ, namely the amendment of the law on RTV Slovenia, provided an idea or proposal for a reduced number of programme councilors on RTV, which could also be agreed on in the SDS, but the proposal also made a different composition, thus excluding several candidates who could have proposed candidates for members of the programme board so far. We estimate that this is well-ordered enough in the current law because it does not, for example, allow just one humanitarian or disability organisation to propose, but to all who are registered in this country as humanitarian and disability organisations. This is according to the current arrangement, the new one would be different. And, as it is said, too many potential candidates are excluded, so we have not supported this law, we have opposed it, and we estimate that the regime that is in force and will continue to apply will sufficiently reflect the views of viewers and listeners who can propose their members through these organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! We have proposed two minor amendments to the RTV law in the LMŠ. We wanted to change the composition in good faith and sincerely, but we wanted to change the way the members of the programming board were appointed. We have proposed a reduction to the more effective 23 members and, in particular, what is essential in order to ensure that the policy is abandoned in this Chamber to our current powers of appointment of 16 saints and, of course, also leave the competence to civil society and the professional public. We were confident back then, and we are confident today, even more and more, that the withdrawal of policy from the appointment process would be necessary. It would be a reflection of a basic, if you would like, basic hygiene, so on and so on, depending on who runs the government, we are also looking at the reruns of what has already been seen of human monstrosity and contempt and profanation of everything that is unserviceable and which is not subordinated. He's smiling, he's editing, he's fixing the contents, he's fixing the addresses. We're here today. The existing media empire of the party does not have any credibility and reach, so come after the acquisition of two public services. In spite of the two laws and judgments of the Supreme Court, the Slovenian Press Agency will first financially break it in order to be able to manage the staff and then substantively. RTV has prescribed a different path, but the goal is in fact the same – information management and their interpretation This is what this is all about. The coalition – SDS, NSI, the rest of SMC, SNS, Desus, minority – allows all of this. Although she is a verbal advocate of freedom and independent media, she is even a key to autonomy, while, after most of her silences, she also allows the media to deal with it faithfully. Therefore, as far as LMŠ is concerned, the blame is exactly the same. There are no messages – the coalition and, of course, the first one in the government last week, or even the President of the European Commission dedicated 14 days ago. First of all, she called for the cessation of those who threaten media freedom. Coalition, do you recognize each other? Secondly, she warned that the independence of media houses was essential. I suggest you think about it, coalition. And thirdly, she said, “If we defend the freedom of our media, we also defend our democracy.” End of story. Do you understand the coalition? That's enough. In the LMŠ, we believe that it is indeed time for this to end because nothing is eternal, and this government is fortunately not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia was to change the composition and method of appointing the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and to reduce the number of members of the Programme Council. After the general debate, most Members and Members of Parliament considered that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Following a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining opinions and views from the expert and the general public on the proposed solutions, it appeared that, as a rule, everyone advocates a reduction in the number of members of the Programme Council and a shift in policy from decision-making or appointment of members of the Public Television Programme Board. However, the comments made by the public or civil society concerned in particular the appointment of members of the Programme Council by civil society. They considered that the proposal was insufficiently imaginative and inadequate. I would also point out the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states that the proposed provisions are vague and inadequacy and raises questions about the feasibility of the law itself. That is why we have assessed that the bill is rejected. However, we are aware that a new law on RTV Slovenia is being prepared as soon as possible. The Act, which will enable the development of a public institution and which will act in the wider public interest, will also allow for a new composition of the Programme Council, whose members would be mainly representatives of civil society from different fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal to amend the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which we believe is necessary in Levica, with particular attention to the composition of the Programme Council and to reduce the impact of policy on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The present proposal for a law is not sufficiently specific, and in particular the composition of the world in the work that represents the representation of civil society needs to be reconsidered. When appointing representatives to the Programme Council, consideration should be given to the manner and form of organised civil society or the professional public. We believe that the Government must present as soon as possible a new law on Radiotelevision that will answer the key questions raised and allow the development of public service in all the more difficult conditions brought about by the diverse media landscape. Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance. He performs public service in the field of radio and television activities to ensure the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide, members of Slovenian national minorities, Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and other activities in accordance with the law and statute of Radiotelevision and the law governing the field of the media. It shall also exercise the constitutional right of the public to information. The founder of the public institution is the Republic of Slovenia. It is the duty of the founder to ensure the institutional autonomy and editorial independence of Radiotelevision and therefore the policy has nothing to look for. Indeed, the bill follows the principle of institutional autonomy and independence of Radiotelevision by reducing the number of programme councillors appointed by the National Assembly and still includes politicalally directly delegated representatives, five of them. The aim of limiting and reducing the impact of political parties and the ruling policy on the work of the Public Institute Programme Council is positive and supported by Levice. However, the novel proposal itself does not provide this sufficiently consistently. It is not clear how the change will limit the impact of policy on the composition and work of the bodies only by reducing the number of members of the Programme Council and reducing the number of programme councillors appointed by the National Assembly, while the number of members of the Programme Council who are politically delegated by the parties remains the same, i.e. 5. In Levika we advocate the withdrawal of policy from the bodies of Radiotelevision and the depoliticisation of the Programme Council. Only in this way would they prevent constant attacks on the public TV service, the bile race against journalists and the media offensive fought by Janša, which has gained an international dimension, harms the reputation of Slovenia, in particular the attack on freedom of journalists, the autonomy of the media and the eccentric violation of the constitutional right of the public to information. Twitter and other public attacks on journalists have recently escalated into extreme lowliness of mind, primitive, bizarre accounting and hate speech, and into discourse, unworthy of basic literacy, rather than civilized dialogue. The President of the Government calls for the abolition of the statutory RTV contribution, which means the abolition of one vital source of funding for Radiotelevision, namely the one that ensures independence and political impartiality. That is why we believe in Levica that a delicate area needs to be regulated legally. We cannot pass the attempts of the ruling coalition and the SDS party to take over absolute domination in both the programming and control council of Radiotelevision Slovenia. They settled their new Director General in April this year, of course, the new Director-General immediately went into the project of discharge of the Director of Television and setting up his own staff. Things are happening like dominoes. In the same breath about the struggle for survival and fate of the Slovenian Press Agency we will not lose words at all. In short, if we do not want public broadcasting to become a service to the political interests of programme councilors, who must be advocates of public interest, we must not employ either politics or capital. This is totally contrary to the mission of public broadcasters, is denied the function of critical control over the functioning of the authorities and can become the subject of manipulation of the power of each individual government or party. The predominant influence on the functioning of the public service must be restored to the civil public, who must once again be given a decisive word when appointing members of the programme board. The public service of Radiotelevision Slovenia is and must be in the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Mrs Tadej Šuštar Zalar. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The number of members of the RTV Programme Council is decreasing from 29 to 23. However, the power of appointment is also changing. In the current regulation, the National Assembly appoints 21 members of the Programme Council, 16 on the proposal of viewers and listeners, and 5 on the proposal of political parties. The other 8 members are appointed by one Hungarian and Italian national communities and Sazu, 2 by the President of the Republic on a proposal from registered religious communities and 3 by employees in RTV Slovenia. Following a new proposal, the National Assembly would appoint only five members, at the proposal of the five largest parties. Other members would be appointed: 3 employees on RTV Slovenia, 2 professional organisations of journalists and one Saz, the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the President of the Republic, one on a proposal from registered religious communities and one on a proposal from universities, organisations of deaf and deaf, NGOs in public interest in the field of sport, the Department of Journalism from higher education teachers, the Ombudsman, the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Association of Dramatic Artists, professional associations of music creators and professional associations in the field of film and audiovisual production. In Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats, we did not support the draft law in the second reading, as did the rest of the party; except for the applicants. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we advocate a diversity of opinions and consequently various media. We advocate objective, critical, professional and independent reporting that respects freedom of expression, opinion plurality and ethical standards. Media content providers with public status must focus on their original non-commercial role and programme diversity, as they will only remain relevant. They must also be accessible on online platforms and be substantively and technically consistent with the expectations of both the standard audience and the new, marginal, vulnerable, interchangeable and other target groups. Christian Democrats stress in particular the role of the public institution RTV Slovenia in the non-commercial representation of fundamental and intangible cultural heritage and speech culture. It must be not only informative, but it must help to shape the public's attitude towards valuable content. We want the media and, above all, RTV to recognise the interests of as many different citizens as possible and to reflect this in their programmes. The opinion on a specific topic should be created by users themselves on the basis of objectively presented facts. In Slovenia we have often witnessed inaccurate reporting, which we do not think is acceptable, but it will not change the composition of the RTV programming board. This can only change the awareness of editors and journalists that they have a great responsibility to viewers, listeners, and readers. This can only change their commitment to objectivity and truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next, will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The new law on RTV provided for a change in the composition and method of appointing members of the Programme Council, thereby reducing the power of policy in this body. For the members of the SAB Party, a provision in which the right to propose the five members of the National Assembly is reserved for only 5 of the largest parties has been disputed at all times. The first question raised in this regard is what composition of this programming council we get if all the largest parliamentary groups are more on one floor, either on the left or on the right. The second question is how this reduces the impact of policy in the programming world at all. For the power would then be given only to those who are the greatest in the National Assembly, who already have the greatest influence. The latter is often applied through appointments that are supposed to be apolitical. In the SAB Group, we are always united about the following. The Programme Council must be composed in such a way as to allow for greater transparency in the work of this body, as is called mutual and multilateral control. This way, policy will remain involved in the functioning of the Programme Council, but it will be for each of the political parties and not just for the largest. In this case, the Programme Council would have the possibility of mutual control and transparency in a manner such as electoral committees. Our thinking was also supported by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in its opinion, found that the proposed aspect was contrary to the principle of equality and warned that it was possible to ensure the appointment of a certain number of members in the National Assembly without pre-restriction. If each political party included in the individual mandate of the National Assembly were given its representative, this would, as it is said, lead to greater transparency of action, improve the control over the exercise of the public interest of this media, and reduce the potential for potential political identification and impact on the work of the public media service. A balanced representation of political parties would also help to ensure that the public service actually exercises its mission and serves its cultural and national importance. In doing so, we must not be blinded to the fact that the full definition of policy and direct appointment to the Programme Council would mean that the political impact would no longer be. On the contrary, I would be through representatives of civil society and other organisations. But he would be intransparent and unclear at first sight. After all, it is the task of the Programme Council to represent and protect the interests of all the public and to guide the programming policy in a way that serves all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is in our opinion appropriate to include representatives of all the parties elected by people to the National Assembly, who are therefore entrusted with the protection and protection of their legitimate interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is one of the primary public information transporters; it covers a varied repertoire that includes information and entertainment broadcasts. The Programme Council, composed of representatives and experts from various fields, plays an important role in the design and acceptance of content on TV, Radio or the RTV Slovenia website. Despite the different perceptions in the Desus Group, we believe that RTV works well. In the Desus Group, we have not supported the bill since the beginning, because we believe that solutions are partial and reckless. It has also been re-examined through public hearing that many organisations still do not have a properly regulated representation within RTV Slovenia. Representatives of deaf and deaf and blind and visually impaired presented shortcomings in the play of programming content. Among other things, access to information is not equivalent to that of other viewers, and it would be important that they also have representatives within the Programme Council representing their specific interests. If a proposal to amend the composition of the Programme Council has also been made to limit political interference with programme content, it should be pointed out that each member of the Programme Council is bound by an ethical code. It tells him that the decisions taken are not the result of political pressures or personal interests. Each decision must be carefully thought out and linked to work for the benefit of all. RTV Slovenia is currently facing many challenges. The financial picture of the public service is poor, and it is also becoming increasingly difficult to compete with other commercial televisions and service providers. In the coming years, it will be necessary to draw up a law that will address all the challenges that RTV faces. However, we must by no means agree to a partial solution. Addressing deeper problems within the public institution itself must be systematic and thoughtful. Such rapid interventions would actually do more harm than good, and in the long run they would open up new problems. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that this has also been recognised by the vast majority of members on the working body who voted against or abstained. In the Desus Group we will always defend that all groups of viewers of RTV Slovenia programmes must be equally represented. We are all aware of the fact that one day we will have to talk again and face the challenges RTV faces today and will face in the future. At that time, we may also be able to tackle in concrete terms the shortcomings of the Programme Council and the underrepresentation of individual groups in it. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will postpone the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! As early as June, when we held the general debate, we noted that the bill was incomplete and incomplete and that it was mainly a political reaction by the opposition to the current attempts to replace members of the Public Radio Television Supervisory Board. We have stressed that it is not good to react quickly and recklessly to developments on public Radiotelevision, especially when such a response is linked to daily political developments. It is also politically and effectively naive to expect that any authority will completely renounce the possibility of influencing public Radiotelevision. Our national is a public institution of special cultural and national importance and provides one of the fundamental functions of a democratic state, namely the exercise of the right to public information. But politics and the public are always interlinked in the spirit of this fundamental function, even though the media are not responsible to politicians, but to the public, so, in the first place, they need not alliances with politics, but alliances with the public. The fact is that for a good decade we have been facing unfulfilled promises regarding the modernisation of media legislation, including the umbrella Law on Radio Television Slovenia; on the other hand, it is inconceivable that the currently ruling set-up and the Minister for Culture would want to produce such a legislative environment in order to ensure the independence and independence of the media. We have not yet achieved the knowledge that the politically subordinate media is of no benefit to anyone. And in this light, it is also necessary to evaluate this time a proposal for amendments to the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which sought to change the composition of its programming board. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the fundamental idea that the law should determine which representative organisations should be represented in the world, and that they should appoint their own representatives. We also support the idea of reducing the number of members of the Council because in practice it has proved that such large bodies are not the most effective. In the latter case, this proved to be fine in the absence of a sufficiently large number of saints, that the meeting at which the debate on the discharge of the Director of Television was envisaged was inconclusive. However, when it comes to the number of the world and the representation of the saints, it is our view that political arbitration should not be subject to the proponents of the law, not to the political arbitration of any other political actor or political party. The resolution of these issues can only be the product of a longer public debate and consideration, thereby a wider social consensus and at least a minimum political consensus. Radiotelevision Slovenia does not need partial solutions as a result of a political response to current events, but needs a new modernised law that will allow such radio broadcasting to be in line with the objectives, wishes and needs of users. The law, which will increase its autonomy and aim to improve the efficiency of its operations and the quality of its programmes and increasingly up-to-date services. The unaffiliated members of the bill's proposal at the Committee on Culture did not support it. The amendments and additions to the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia need to be made with due consideration, more comprehensively and in particular in a less focused political time. Broadcasting public television as a hot costing between the opposition and the coalition does not bring about the strengthening of autonomy and independence; on the contrary, it is better to keep the law the way it is. The law in force is referred to as Grimes’s law, and it should apply only a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. RTV Slovenia was once a credible institution, today it is a political organisation that wants to set political starting points and criteria and decides who should be allowed to perform on television or not. This was the case when the editor, Mrs Manica Janežič Ambrožič, decided that the Slovenian national party did not belong on television. I don't know who gives her this right, and I don't know who gives the right to RTV Slovenia, that even in further matters, the existence of the Slovenian National Party simply denies it. That is why we have also brought an action against Mrs Manica Janežič Ambrožič, and one would expect Mr Areh to clean something up here as soon as he got there. With regard to Mr Areh, since I once wished him the head of POP TV Perovic while he was there, he helped me out of a very nasty thing in the Balkans, and he didn't even say thank you very much for coffee; I doubt if he would do anything here too. Otherwise, a complete renovation of the institution is needed on RTV Slovenia, completely. There are more than 2,000 500 people in the workforce who share large sums of money. There are over 900 of them without adequate education and they receive beautiful salaries. Links with their private companies are long and fast, as I read in the media, and Mrs. Manica Janežič Ambrožič is connected to RTV Slovenia through her husband. I don't know how that's possible. It's an extremely biased report. No more credibility on RTV Slovenia. All together, there is a sort of colloquial that some say is a backdrop; and this is from a left - hand background that wants to turn the facts into their own. A whole series of false contributions is or contributions, which also favour those gentlemen who are jumping around Parliament, throwing dice at parliament and similar matters. We saw one of the reporters bragging about those who were supposed to be sitting somewhere else, not flying around. After all, if we look, Mr. Shišek, who defended Slovenia and wanted to help the police, was closed. And it is these same people who do nothing against those who fly around, but these gentlemen, of course, have support, especially RTV Slovenia. Even POP TV retreated and went back a few steps. RTV Slovenia has still trolled the former authorities and has tripled its former political options. I think we should also stop the RTV contribution. And if we put at least a thousand people on the road like they did in Greece, TV could work peacefully and we wouldn't need any RTV contributions. Because this money goes mainly into private pockets, including those who are without adequate education, which are connected to RTV and who through their family and different relationships, and also what sweethearts are mostly here, who receive good money at the expense of what RTV Slovenia should do as part of its operation. One thing, however, is that I can commend — excellent documentary shows. This is the only thing still bright on RTV Slovenia, but everything else is the devil's sorrow. I also think that we should consider removing the archive and specifically regulating it. Just like it does now, in this way that we have to pay for what we've already paid those people once who are employed to record things, even pay them an author's fee, it doesn't go anywhere. In short, it is right that this law did not receive support. However, I think that the full functioning of RTV Slovenia will have to be regulated on a comprehensively prepared and facts-based new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Employment and Social Courts within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš. At its 29th session, on 8 September 2021, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law to be the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after its final consideration, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Although the draft law interferes with a number of technical laws governing labour and social courts procedures, it contains a solution related to labour law protection. It raises questions about the appropriateness of the protection of individual categories of workers, in which case union representatives. As we know, labour law is primarily designed to protect the weaker in the working relationship, i.e. workers and workers. This is a legal area that often follows difficult developments or changes in practice. The labour market will again offer solutions, and also problems that are unlikely to be foreseen by the right time. It often turns out that the rules in writing do not provide adequate protection to individual most vulnerable groups of workers, I am talking about older employees, parents, adolescents, workers' representatives and so on. We all know the media reports of numerous violations or difficult situations in which these workers are found. If workers are well organised, there is usually more dialogue between employers and employees. More dialogue simply means more consensus and less unresolved problems. The work of trade union representatives also contributes to this and is given special protection by legislation. Although we are not in favour of partial legislative solutions in the LMŠ Group, we are not in favour of justice at all. The automatic retention of the effect of the termination of employment to a union representative in the form of a provisional order without a substantive assessment of the individual case is a significant shift from the general rules applicable to this legal instrument, however; cases that occur in practice have shown that there is no overriding of deliberation on the infringements in this area. The solutions set out in the draft law stem from specific cases where workers have been subjected to severe pressure and interference in their legal situation despite labour law. The trade unions, which have strongly supported the bill's proposal, have provided a number of concrete illustrations of what a union representative in a dispute with the employer can do for a year or two. The facts of the impact of the loss of such a worker’s employment on the employer’s own organisation are also relevant. A society that is becoming more and more individualistic should strive to strengthen labour organisation and not the other way around. In recent years, we have thus witnessed several cases where union representatives have unduly lost their jobs and have not achieved their right until after months of a court battle. However, the purpose of the employer, who wanted to get rid of such an employee, was achieved. The bill offered a kind of solution for greater effective protection of such workers, so we supported it on the committee in the LMŠ Group, but unfortunately we did not have a second hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u130	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the opposition, we have prepared, with good intentions, additions to the Labour and Social Courts Act in order to better protect workers' representatives and consequently all other workers. Cases in practice and trade unions point out that there is an increasingly pressing problem of inefficient protection of workers' representatives. There are increasing cases where the employer has resigned the employment contract solely to exclude it from the work process and thereby prevent the operation of the trade union or the labour council. It is true that, in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, workers' representatives enjoy special legal protection against the termination of the employment contract, but this protection is not effective in the event of the termination of the employment contract for allegedly criminal reasons. It is also true that employees have the possibility of bringing an action before a court after their resignation, but even if irregularities are found later that the employment contract to a working representative is, for example, cancelled illegally, these proceedings sometimes take several years before a court. And during that time, these workers or workers’ representatives are excluded from the work process and therefore the operation of the trade union or the labour council in such a company is also hampered. Therefore, the protection of workers' representatives is not considered effective by the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia and Trade Union Centres. The protection of workers must also be effective in practice and not just on paper and must not be solely intended and protection must be provided against any procedures that may be harmful to workers' representatives. We have therefore proposed the addition of Article 43 of the Act, on the basis of which the working court, acting on an official duty, would issue a provisional order to suspend the effect of the termination of the contract of employment to the legality of the judgment, provided that the action brought against a regular notice is brought on grounds of incapacity or for a criminal reason or that the contract of employment has been cancelled by a worker who enjoys special legal protection under the law governing working relations and, of course, the trade union, the council of workers or workers who have elected a representative of workers give a reasoned negative opinion. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, the representatives of the judiciary presented their concerns to us, and we proposed a decision to examine and propose an opportunity for the government to effectively implement the protection of workers' representatives in judicial proceedings. Unfortunately, the coalition Members did not support the bill or the proposal for a decision. Obviously, they did not recognize our intention to protect workers, nor did they listen to the representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions, who said that, I quote, "there are systemic problems in the implementation of the protection of employees' representatives in order to prevent the effective performance of their functions". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Innocent until proven guilty – this is the basic standard of every society that calls itself democratic. This is supposed to apply to us too. And in fact, it's true, but only until we cross the company's threshold. There the unlimited power and power of the employer who tailors the lives of his employees, while they have no say in the management of the company, even though they spend 8 hours a day or more. We have therefore tabled a bill in Levica to protect working representatives from unjustified forgiveness. In fact, it often happens that employers of trade unions or labour representatives in the labour councils give little relief for reasons of guilt in full awareness of the illegal termination, but the legislation allows them to bear the burden of proving innocence on the employee's part. An illegally dismissed employee is then the one who must seek his right in court. The proceedings are long, they can be dragged for years, they are extremely traumatic for the employees involved. Notwithstanding the fact that they often benefit the worker, the employer’s objective has been achieved. This is that labour activism within the company is headed, the working group is intimidated, and the working representative is mentally and socially broken. The problem persists, for quite some time now in Levika, but unfortunately, there was not a broad enough coalition to support our legal intervention. Why? We can imagine. Since the ruling authority has long decided to work for the benefit of capital, not for the benefit of employees. It is not that we are advocating this concrete legal intervention as soon as possible the transition to socialism or anything like that, not at all. There are Western European countries that protect working representatives in exactly the way we point out in Levica, so that the employer should first prove to the working representative the alleged breach of his work obligations before the court. Only after a unionist or representative in the working world has been found guilty in court can he be fired. After all, it is based on Slovenian legislation that union and other labour representatives should enjoy special protection, but due to the implementation of the legal provisions, this special protection seems to be in fact nowhere. And there are numerous cases where employers are cruelly, brutally, ruthlessly charged with employees or with employees only because they have hoped to exercise their legal right to defend their welfare and the well-being of their employees in the company, or they hope to expose infringements, corruption within individual companies. And only if the National Assembly, as a legislative body, intervenes in law and actually, not only nominally, protects these working representatives, can we hope that the decline in membership in the unions will stop and, as a result, improve the situation of all working people in this country. The problem of one retired unionist is not limited to that specific name and surname alone, but it has effects on the whole of the company, on the whole industry, because the working group is intimidated. I repeat, intimidated by the fact that they are exercising their basic legal rights, which they are supposed to enjoy, but are not actually allowed by their employer in practice. Trade unions or labour organisations that have participated in the consideration of our law on the labour force have pointed out that only recently have 40 different cases been listed when capitalists have decided to deal with working representatives just because they are working representatives, not because they would have done something wrong. Notwithstanding the fact that the majority of votes are needed, on behalf of the Left as a working socialist party, I announce that we will continue, in this mandate and in the next term, with our activities to protect trade union representatives and representatives in the Council of Workers. We also expect the next coalition to have enough votes to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The main objective of the bill, as stated by the proposer, is to ensure the effective protection of workers' representatives. The proposal focuses on the protection of the representative of workers in the event of cancellation. The termination or termination of the contract by a worker shall not take effect for 30 days from the service of the termination or from the time limit for mediation or arbitration or judicial protection. This applies in the event of cancellation on grounds of incompetence, guilt, extraordinary cancellations and if the trade union, the labour council or the workers who elected the worker representative have given a negative opinion on the termination of the contract of workers representatives and the representative of workers in the employer requires the suspension of the effect of the cancellation. The suspension of the effect of the termination of the termination of the termination of employment shall be extended after the existing regime until the decision of the court to grant a provisional order, provided that the representative of the workers in the proceedings enforces the illegality of the termination of the contract of employment. However, following the proposed amendment of the law, in these cases, the working court would issue a provisional order on the suspension of the effect of the termination of the employment contract to the legality of the judgment. The applicant raises the problem of existing protection of workers' representatives, which is that they are in practice being carried out in a curative manner, i.e. after the damage has already occurred and the purpose of the employer has already been achieved. This should be resolved by automatic suspension of the effect of the termination of the powers of official duty. In Novi Slovenije, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which said that the proposed regulation represents a large deviation from the system regime in the Labour and Social Courts Act. In accordance with this Regulation, the conditions laid down in the Enforcement and Insurance Act must be laid down for the issue of a provisional order. In addition, the primary condition is that the creditor demonstrates the probable existence of its claim, and it is likely that it must demonstrate at least one of the following assumptions, namely that the enforcement of the claim will be impossible or significantly hampered, that the order is necessary to prevent the use of force or the occurrence of severe remedial damage, or that the debtor by issuing a provisional order, if the proceedings prove unfounded, would not suffer worse adverse consequences than those who would have incurred a creditor without issuing a provisional order. The proposed law, however, introduces automation in the issue of a provisional order. The representative of workers as a creditor should not be required to demonstrate any substantive conditions for issuing a provisional order or a primary condition that the existence of his claim is likely to be demonstrated. The Court, after the proposed regulation, does not make a substantive decision on anything and is in fact an ex-lege provisional order. This could mean that the court would also issue a provisional order in the event that the data in the file show that the claims made by a worker's representative on the illegal termination are obviously unfounded at first sight. This loses the basic purpose of the provisional order. Similarly, the Supreme Court pointed out in its letter, which also pointed out the inadequacy of regulating substantive law in the procedural law. Members of New Slovenia agree that the representatives of workers enjoy special protection and legal protection in relation to their constitutional role and international acts, which we believe have already been given in the framework of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. For all the reasons mentioned on the Committee on Justice, we did not support the proposal for a law on labour and social courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. One moment, please, they'll wipe out the counter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u136	I've been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u137	Look, come on, it's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Trade union and labour representatives represent an important link between employers and workers as they strive to protect the fundamental rights and interests of workers or employees. Because of their activities, the most active unfortunately often find themselves in an unfavourable position, which can also have a significant impact both on the conduct of their union activities and on their careers alone. However, their employment is often threatened. Workers tend to be in a weaker position compared to employers. In order to effectively protect rights and interests, they have the right to trade union association, which is also enshrined in our constitution. In practice, employees are often under the pressure of employers and, due to their mission, also repeatedly receive terminations of the employment contract. This is what some employers want to do to weaken social dialogue and, as a result, to promote the interests of their employees. It is therefore not right, and by no means, that those individuals or individuals who decide to protect the interests and rights of other workers in addition to their work have no adequate legal protection and are not safe from the false termination of the employment contract. The Association of Slovenian Workers' Councils points out that the termination of the employment contract for criminal reasons in practice has become the most frequently abused legal basis for accounting with working representatives. Thus, when the worker’s representative receives the termination of a contract of employment for criminal reasons, he has the opportunity, like everyone else, to file an action against him, but this waiver shall be carried out irrespective of the action brought, even though later in court — of course over time — it turns out that the waiver was illegal. In such a case, the worker has the right to return to the workplace, but a great deal of damage has already been done. He cannot carry out his mission as a representative of the employees in the meantime, and such a resignation has a markedly negative impact on his career and life. They are also in a very difficult social situation many times. The draft law before us, however, provides for an amendment to Article 43 in such a way that the working court, acting on an official duty, should issue a provisional order to suspend the effect of this waiver in any case where a working representative is involved in this legal dispute. Therefore, in accordance with the proposed regulation, the waiver would not have been implemented until the court had determined legally whether it was legal at all. This would eliminate the marriage gap and ensure adequate legal protection for those fighting for the rights of the weaker. In this regard, we have also heard in the SAB warnings from the legal profession and the Legal and Legislative Service that the proposed solution deviates from the system regime of the Interim Order Institute. The Government also states in its opinion that the basic objective, while supporting the proposed solution, is not appropriate. In the opposition, we have therefore proposed a decision to consider other options to ensure the effective protection of workers' representatives. But unfortunately, the coalition didn't have a hearing for that. In other words, they obviously do not want the legal protection of workers' representatives in the event of a criminal dismissal to be regulated in a way that is actually effective and would protect them. Union freedom is a constitutionally protected right and in the SAB we are aware that trade union action is crucial to the effective realization of the interests and protection of workers' rights. Therefore, as co-signers of the proposed law, we support this solution all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. It's not a bump. We're moving on. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Shisko. The counter's ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u140	Your Honor! The proposed amendment sought to ensure that trade unions were adequately and effectively protected from employers' retaliatory measures. It considers that the current regulation has not adequately summarized the content of the International Labour Organisation Convention. In our view, so far, regulation offers adequate protection for these people. Trade unions are already subject to a legal regime that provides them with special protection. That's not the kind of protection that other workers have. It could be said that union leaders are already privileged in the current regime compared to other employees. We are unconditionally protecting workers and, in order to further, fit the spirit of time, to regulate the reasons for the failure of the working relationship. The fact is that there are no problems in the work process in companies where both the employer and the worker are aware of their rights and duties. However, in our arrangement we have great problems with the unions themselves, whose operation is not defined. We urgently need a law on trade union activities to determine the basics of trade union activity. Conducting trade union activities in Slovenia far exceeds their basic design of action, which is the fight for labour rights. In this way, it protects and informs them of their rights in an appropriate manner. Many times, however, trade unions organize strikes and meetings exclusively from political motives that serve their leadership. Syndical activity in our country has long been inseparable and no longer follows their original mission. The union should also take care of employees when they lose their jobs, but most of the time they simply forget them or do not go into the situation of a fired worker. Syndicate leaders often begin to draw attention to the situation when a worker loses his job, even though much earlier. In particular, I am thinking of companies that are not well-standing and are expected to forgive and abolish jobs. I could say that in most cases, union leaders wake up too late. Employees trust them too blindly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u142	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members! In the proposed amendment to the Labour and Social Courts Act, the proposer proposes that the ZDSS-1 be supplemented by a temporary order to suspend the effect of the termination of the employment contract to the legality of the judgment, provided that, of course, an action is brought against an additional regular or exceptional cancellation of the employment contract to a working representative who enjoys special legal protection before the termination under the law governing the labour relationship and the trade union, the Council of Workers or Workers who have elected a representative of workers give a reasoned negative opinion. Such an arrangement is, in our opinion, unnecessary and also legally controversial. It is unnecessary because the Labour Relations Act already adequately protects working representatives against the employer's possible will. The Labour Relations Act states in Article 112 that the employer shall not cancel a contract of employment for a member of the Council of Workers, a worker’s trustee, a member of the Supervisory Board representing workers, a representative of workers in the world of the institution and a designated or loved union trustee, without the consent of the Council of Workers or Workers elected by them, or a trade union, if it acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment, unless, for business reasons, he refuses to offer appropriate employment to the employer or if the contract of employment is cancelled in the proceedings of termination of the employer. Article 113 of the Act further provides that, in the case of a negative opinion given by the trade union, the labour council or by the workers who have elected the representative of the workers, the termination of the employment contract shall be suspended for 30 days or until the period for mediation or arbitration or judicial protection. The Article also provides that, in the event of the application of illegality, the termination of a contract in a court of law, together with a motion for the issue of a provisional order, the effect of termination of the contract of employment, shall be withheld from the decision of the court on the application for a provisional order. Taking into account the legal principle and the favours of the laboratories and the careful weighing of the facts and evidence by the court in each case, in our view, in practice there is no possibility that, in the event that the employer would voluntarily cancel the employment contract for union activities, the court would not, of course, decide for the purpose of this working representative if the labour relationship were to be terminated to the labour representative solely and solely because of his trade union activities. As it is said, the law adequately and sufficiently protects the working representatives and the court is also acting on a provisional order based on its assessment. As far as this solution is concerned from the point of view of legal dispute, here are the following reasons. For the purpose of issuing a provisional order, the applicant must demonstrate the cumulative existence of legally specified conditions, which are listed in the Enforcement and Insurance Act and must be duly justified. On the contrary, the proposal by the proposer introduces automation in the issuance of provisional orders, since the representative of workers as a creditor does not have to show any substantive conditions for issuing a provisional order or a primary condition that the existence of its claim is likely to be demonstrated. In their legal opinion, if you have read it, they have also detected it in the Legislative and Legal Service, where they have rightly pointed out that the court, under the proposed regulation, does not make a substantive decision and that it is in fact an ex-lege temporary order. For temporary orders, this is a time-limited means of insurance aimed at preserving the existing factual and legal situation. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also noted, in addition to the above, Article 215 of the ZDR-1, where it is envisaged that an inspector for work may, in order to prevent arbitrary conduct and to prevent irreparable damage, suspend the effect of termination of the contract of employment due to cancellation until the time limit for mediation or arbitration or judicial protection, or to enforceable arbitral decision, or if an employee in a judicial procedure, at the latest at the time of the lodging of the action, requires temporary orders to issue a decision of the court on the application of this provisional order. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also pointed out Article 200 of the Penal Code, which defines violations of rights to participate in the management and infringement of trade union rights as a crime against employment and social security. Of course, because of all the above, we will not support this proposal in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE STOPMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR INSTRUMENTS AFTER 14. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the ARTICLE RELATED TO THE SECOND AND THIRD POINT OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH 39. Member of the Act on Intangible Diseases and Remediation of Damage as a result of the non-constitutional prohibition on the restriction of the movement and collection of habitats due to the prevention of the introduction, in view of the spread of the intrusive disease virus-19 in the country and related penalties imposed for infringements of these prohibitions, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. At its 29th session, on 8 September 2021, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law to be the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In June, the Constitutional Court ruled that certain parts of the Law on Infectious Diseases and Government Decisions adopted on its basis were unconstitutional. We Social Democrats were already before the Constitutional Court's decision, this is in March this year, an initiative to put an end to criminal proceedings and to adopt a special law, because in our opinion the measures did not have the appropriate legal basis and were not published in the Official Journal. After the decision of the Constitutional Court, however, there was no longer any doubt, and the Government acted unconstitutionally and in contravention of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the rule of law, since it did not adequately adapt the legislation to the measures, but limited the most fundamental human rights that we have overtook through history only by decrees and by the laws of substance. Some other European countries, through which we are so keen to imitate each other, have done so – that is, at the time of the epidemic they have adapted legislation. Our government has not, even though it has been warned of this before the Constitutional Court's decision all along by various professional services and certain lawyers. Therefore, in the opposition following a decision by the Constitutional Court, we have drawn up a proposal for a law that would put an end to proceedings against individuals who have violated the Government's unconstitutional decrees and would repay the fines already paid and the costs of the procedure. It is true that for the first time in history since World War II, human rights have been so affected. While some measures may have been necessary to combat the epidemic, the Government is the one who should ensure the legality and regularity of the procedures and regulations. It is therefore only the Government that has to bear the consequences for its actions, not for citizens and citizens who have unfortunately paid penalties on the basis of unconstitutional rules. Unfortunately, the Committee's proposal did not receive sufficient support because the rulings simply did not want to take responsibility for their mistakes. Otherwise, we'd have thought the government had learned something from it, but unfortunately it didn't. He continues to rule with decrees and not with laws. The decisions related to the Coronavirus are now almost 2 000 700, and they are constantly changing. How, then, can citizens and citizens be found in all this chaos?Oh, my God! Moreover, in our opinion, even in the opinion of several lawyers, the condition of PCT and the condition of PC do not have the appropriate legal basis. The condition of the PC is, in fact, a compulsory vaccination and compulsory vaccination measure, by its content, can only be prescribed by law and law. In my own debates, I have warned in the beginning of the adoption of the so-called cot of legislation and decrees that the Government's sub-laws for such serious infringements into fundamental human rights are not sufficient to allow such restriction if, by law alone, all such measures by the State in view of the epidemiological circumstances must be necessary, proportionate and, above all, time-limited. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the Government does not wish to amend legislation in such a way that these measures are adopted democratically, in order to ensure legal certainty and to clearly lay down rights and obligations. We know that the condition of PCT and PC is already being assessed in the Constitutional Court, so we can most likely expect a repeat of the story – the unconstitutional and undemocratic rule of this government by decrees, which, as a result, shows its total ignorance of the rule of law and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u146	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! In Levi, we supported the proposal for a law because it was based on a decision of the Constitutional Court which decided that the second and third points of Article 39(1) of the Law on Infectious Diseases were inconsistent with the Constitution. On the contrary, we have all the time claimed that certain government decisions or measures were disproportionate to the objectives they wanted to achieve. And on behalf of the fight against infectious disease, they unjustifiably restricted freedom of expression in public space, even in cases where the risk of transmission of infection was negligible. At the beginning of the year, we warned about police infringements of procedures at the Commission's petitions, human rights and equal opportunities meeting, followed by a proposal for a law that would address violations at the Maribor student protest that required open school access. We have proposed an amendment to this effect, which has expanded the elimination of violations of government decisions. We must say, however, that unjustifiable punishment has occurred not only in the event of a Maribor protest against students and parents, but also in all other protests in the country; in a large number of cases of alleged violations, there have been found controversial decisions by the criminal authorities. Unfortunately, we can only conclude that the purpose of certain government measures is to limit freedom of expression. And every public protest brings together people and public protest is a form of criticism of power. This is a constitutionally protected category, but it can only be limited in emergency situations, not just what the existing government is doing, so that one year people should not express disagreement with the policy of the existing government. The decision of the Constitutional Court is flawed. The issue of reimbursements of fines already paid for offences established by non-constitutional government decrees should be dealt with fairly, which means that the amounts of fines should be reimbursed to the unjustly punished. People were convicted of fines of up to EUR 400, which is more than half of the minimum wage in Slovenia. Members may find such amounts to be low, but for people, for the benefits they have in Slovenia, such fines are extremely high. In the end, I'd say this. The government and coalition MPs like to say or say that order needs to be made in the country, but unfortunately, the only recipe you offer is more repression and punishment. The criticism and indignation of citizens – what is evident through protests – are the result of the humiliation that citizens and citizens receive on a daily basis by government representatives or even by the Prime Minister himself. And we repeat it again in Levica; we have come so far as to establish a balance in society, and in one way only, this is possible in such a way that the current, current government resigns, and with elections that will mix cards and enable a new government. This is the solution, not the imposition of punishment. This is also a solution to the faster recovery of the covida crisis in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. The Constitutional Court ruled that government decrees restricting the movement and assembly of the population were unconstitutional, since the Government had too many powers and too few guardians. This reminds us of the complexity of the time in which these decrees were in force. It is no coincidence that the Constitutional Court annulled the ruling only after the worst part of the epidemic had passed. When it was the worst, it must have been such a decision, and with that responsibility no one would have hoped to take. In his separate opinion, the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Rajko Knez, has also pointed out this issue, allow me to quote him: “If the Constitutional Court were to decide on the constitutionality of such regulations during their period of validity, only because the legislator has inadmissibly abandoned the regulation of the substantive legal framework to restrict freedom of movement and the right to assembly would not have annulled them. The immediate repeal would result in the termination of any appropriate, necessary and more proportionate restrictions on the two human rights which pursued the constitutionally permissible objective of protecting human health and life. The immediate repeal of such rules would also lead to the failure of the State to comply with its positive obligations to prevent the spread of communicable diseases due to the gaps described in the Infectious Diseases Act, i.e. at the level of legal regulation, which could result in irreparable adverse consequences for these constitutional goods, which would lead to an even more unconstitutional situation." Thus, the decrees protected people’s lives and health. The law proposes that, irrespective of the decision of the Constitutional Court or the repeal of those provisions, all violators who have been dealt with on the basis of unconstitutional decisions, past and present, may be allowed to complete the proceedings already initiated but not yet completed, without the imposition of criminal sanctions and in the case of legally terminated proceedings for the reimbursement of fines already paid. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its proposal for an amendment to the Act on Infectious Diseases with the Constitution, wanted to remove the infringement proceedings referred to in Article 39, paragraph 2, and Article 39, paragraph 2, which had been initiated until 3 June 2021 and which had not yet been completed by law, to be terminated. At the time of the re-voting, the National Assembly, however, rejected the amendment and thus rejected the proposed solution that all unlawfully completed criminal proceedings should also be terminated. According to the Government's assurances, this will produce a new text of amendments to the law, which will follow as much as possible the position so far as possible, that abolition should be regulated for all unlawfully completed criminal proceedings. By its decision, the Constitutional Court did not intervene in the legal proceedings already completed, as it did not abolish the contested decisions but repealed them. In particular, the solution to the amnesty is considered by New Slovenia to be a very sensitive area of intervention in legal proceedings. The adoption of a specific law to intervene in legal proceedings is inappropriate and can open the plaza of such new legislative interventions to concrete completed procedures. The principles must be observed that the legislative authority does not unduly interfere with specific legal procedures. Let us not forget that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, decided not to interfere with these cases. In addition, support for such a bill could signal a negative signal in the company's acquisition to ensure that the measures to combat the epidemic are respected as much as possible. The communication of such a law could also be that citizens are not equal before the law and that specific laws can also be adopted for specific completed legal procedures of certain citizens. Members of New Slovenia did not support the draft law on the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! After a good year and a half, since not only Slovenia, but the whole world is fighting an invisible enemy, we are almost accustomed to the administration of this country by government decrees in our country, irrespective of the fact that we are always strongly opposed to this way of working in opposition. At that time, anti-Korona measures and restrictions have already created a real mess, and even some legal experts have acknowledged that it is difficult to follow, as things are changing so quickly. This makes it even more difficult for other wrong-doers, citizens and citizens. Even fundamental human rights were limited by the decrees, although it is permissible to restrict them exclusively and only by law in accordance with the Constitution. In May this year, the light of the Council came to light with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which recognized several key decisions of the Government as unconstitutional because they were based on an unconstitutional legal basis. This is all well-known Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which, according to the Constitutional Court, gives the Government a broad field of discretion in assessing and deciding on a measure to limit movement. In other words, the executive authority must not initially address matters which are solely within the legislator's competence. However, the Constitutional Court has merely annulled the Government's rulings and not abolished them, as some citizens misinterpret. This means that, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, no proceedings will be stopped and no fine will be returned, even if they have been issued on the basis of a legal regime which is not in accordance with the Constitution. However, the Constitutional Court did not repeal the second and third paragraphs of Article 39(1) of the UNSB. It thus provided a legal basis for the issue of future decisions on restrictions on movement and assembly until non-compliance with the Constitution is lifted. Although this is a rather unusual decision, in the SAB we understand it mainly in the light of the protection of the health and life of people who are fundamental constitutional values. In the explanatory memorandum, it stated that in the event of the repeal of the legal system, there would be a legal void and the state would not be able to meet its constitutional obligations to protect people's health and lives. Such a decision, which has merely annulled those rulings, has some shortcomings in practice, which is also recognised in a separate opinion by Constitutional Judge Sugman Stubbs. It introduces a distinction between those violators of the decrees that have already settled the fines and have become legal and those whose cases have not yet become legal. The fact that many have been penalized on an unconstitutional basis is considered inadmissible in the SAB and therefore we fully support the fundamental purpose of this bill, which would allow for what is not a constitutional decision. Unfortunately, as part of the legislative process, we have heard warnings that, as such, the proposal for a law does not take account of all legal situations and consequently does not satisfy the principle of unequal treatment. In particular, it is questionable to intervene in legal proceedings, as our Legal and Legal Service has also pointed out. This point has also been pointed out in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, and in this part we join the opinions of both SABs. Decisions issued after 30 have also not been taken into account. 6. Even though they were based on an unconstitutional legal basis. Despite some of the shortcomings and risks mentioned above, we support the proposed solution in the SAB. In the subsequent stages of the procedure, the law could be amended and adjusted accordingly, if the will were of course, and achieved the final result, that is justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we regret that the ruling coalition has decided, for the second time this year, to reject the possibility of correcting the wrongs caused by the penalties imposed for non-compliance with government decisions for offences which, in some cases, the regular courts have decided that they were not at all offences. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, these were pronounced on the basis of rules without a legal and thus constitutional basis. This would at least restore to a certain extent the coalition's lost confidence in the rule of law. The bill is prepared on the basis of a law that we proposed in the Group of Non-Aligned Members this year for the abolition and amnesty of the Maribor students. Even before the last ruling of the Constitutional Court, we have stressed that the repressive authorities of the Government have used disproportionately and unfairly, as well as unfairly penalising the Maribor students who merely demanded a return to the school bench, i.e. their constitutional right to education, taking into account all security measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. Moreover, it was possible to conclude from the police records that they had not been punished for gathering in a public place, but that they had been punished for words spoken publicly and recorded on protest posters. As a result of the persecution of the Moroccan students, we have even found ourselves in the annual report of the global civil society association Civicus, which consists of more than 8 thousand 500 societies and organisations from 175 countries, in a work that discusses the limitation of civil and democratic freedoms. This bill of law was rejected by the ruling coalition just before the summer. Recently, the Maribor District Court dropped the offence proceedings for the last student of three undergraduate students who were invited to court for participation at the February Peace Meeting to return to the school bench. The Court brought an action on the offence to a halt on the grounds that the act was not an offence and stated in the explanatory memorandum that it was indeed an attempt to sanction the students for expressing their views and for failing to collect and disregard the safeguards. It was found that underage students at a peaceful meeting, and taking into account all the safeguards, simply pointed out the incoherence and disproportionateity of restricting the right to education. But the Maribor court only pardoned underage students. The same offence for which the court found that it was not an offence was also punishable by full-year students who had already paid their fines and the criminal proceedings were legally terminated, which means that they were caused by inequality before the law. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court found that the fine number of government decisions restricting the freedom of individuals at the time of the epidemic was invalid, as they were based on the Law on Infectious Diseases, which in the work to which they referred, was unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has pointed out that, even during the epidemic, fundamental human rights and the constitutional rights of citizens must also be violated with great caution, a sense of right and with great precision. And also the Maribor students and students were among these victims of anti-constitutional interference with constitutional rights. The excuses that we have often heard that the law is old and that no previous government has fixed it are simply a diversion of attention, as the government during the epidemic in the so-called PKPs has changed some of the provisions of this Law on Infectious Diseases. The shortcomings of the law and the decrees it adopted were also noted by the legal profession. That is why, together with Members of the LMŠ, SD and Levice, we have tabled a legal proposal for the abolition and amnesty of all those who have been punished for offences based on the unconstitutional Law on Infectious Diseases and thus government decisions to limit the movement and collection of people. This law would also cover those full-year Maribor students, as they were also punished on the basis of unconstitutional government decisions. The law that we have tabled is therefore essentially based on justice and equality before the law for all unjustifiable offenders and allows us to prevent the further imposition of criminal sanctions in unsolved criminal proceedings, which have been determined on the basis of unconstitutional rules; and to repay at least the fines paid to those who have already been sanctioned. Our proposal is the fastest way to ensure that the Constitutional Court's decision can be implemented as soon as possible, especially after the coalition itself has rejected the government's amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases. That is why we have called on the coalition to step in front of us and to improve the legislative proposal together by the plenary session. Unfortunately, we haven't been heard. However, I hope that both the government representatives and the members of the coalition have heard at least the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, who has welcomed our proposal for a system-wide resolution of the unsustainable situation with regard to non-constitutional government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u154	Chairman, thank you. Dear fellow Members, Members! The proposer proposes that, for infringements against individuals who have infringed the unconstitutional regulations of the Government of Slovenia concerning measures to prevent the spread of infectious disease covid-19, a abolition shall be introduced as a form of amnesty, which exists in the absence of prosecution or the cessation of criminal proceedings, and that criminal penalties or fines imposed on them may not be imposed and recovered. The proposer proposes amnesty for penalties against offenders in a rapid infringement procedure with a payment order for which fines have already become legal; and also for those who have already settled the fines. He believes that this will restore people's confidence in the rule of law. It is, of course, necessary to point out first that the issue of legislative decisions was not the result of some kind of will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but of the incomplete legal arrangements that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to react adequately to the protection of public health at a time of crisis and the situation of a higher power, and that it simply did not provide sufficient legal basis under which it could be decided without delay. The subsequent repeal of the judgments by the Constitutional Court and the correction of the lack of legal regulation or the addition of legal provisions with legal content, which did not exist at the time of the issue of the decision, does not give any basis for ex-tunc annulment at the time of the holding of the protests of all legal and legitimate penalties imposed. Such a decision by the Constitutional Court does not mean that the penalties already imposed on them will fall and does not allow the possibility of the reimbursement of the fines already paid. This also comes from the explanation given by the Constitutional Court, who, of course, also read this explanation. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that, on 15 July 2021, when re-voting, it had rejected the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases and thus proposed a solution that all unlawfully closed criminal proceedings for infringement of the second or third paragraph of Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases should be brought to an end by 3 June 2021. Such a decision would, of course, allow criminal authorities to conclude procedures that have not yet been legally completed. Now they will have to conduct and decide on the procedures. Only on the basis of regular remedies will the cases be referred to the competent courts. For infringing authorities cannot refer to the so-called “exceptio illegalis” when deciding. The proposal for amendments to the UNSB addressed the issues covered by the proposal of the proposed bill in Article 1, referring to all unlawful criminal proceedings for violation of the second or third paragraph of the first paragraph of Article 39 of the Act, which the Constitutional Court, as has already stated, decided that those two points were incompatible with the Constitution. With a view to rejecting the proposal for amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, prepare a new text of amendments to this Act, where it will follow to the maximum extent possible the position to be taken so far, that the abolition should be regulated for all unlawfully completed criminal proceedings for violation of the second or third paragraph of Article 39 of the UNB. Of course, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly called for a similar solution in its opinion. In view of all the above, of course, we will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of the Act in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In no legal democratic country should an individual be punished on the basis of unconstitutional rules. Not in any country, at least in our country. Unfortunately, that's exactly what happened under this government. More than 10 thousand offences dealt with and more than EUR 2 million fined on the basis of government decrees, which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found to be inconsistent with the Constitution and with our legal order. In the spirit of the greatest benevolence that we can overcome in the LMŠ, we might say — okay, the government made a mistake, a serious mistake, punished people and financially damaged them without a proper legal basis. And if it's a mistake, let's get it fixed. Therefore, in the LMŠ, together with the opposition, we have drawn up a law whereby all our citizens, who have or should still have paid a fine based on unconstitutional government rules, would correct this injustice. They would return their money or, in cases where they had not yet paid the fine, they would simply get it out of the world. The so-called law on abolition was well-intentioned and, above all, just and necessary from a constitutional point of view and necessary from a social point of view. But as soon as this coalition rejected the proposal to return their money to our citizens, the money they lost because this government had adopted unconstitutional regulations, the masks fell. Respected citizens and respected citizens, your current government, led by the SDS, NSI, the rest of the SMC and SNS and Desus supporters, are of little concern that you have been forced to pay more than EUR 2 million in state treasury in an unconstitutional way. Very little does this government care about your rights, because your right, respected citizens, is to have the government rule you legally. One more time. Our proposal was to correct this injustice and to eliminate the consequences of the unconstitutional government rules and to repay your fines already paid. Unfortunately, members of the minority coalition have decided that you are not entitled to this, respected citizens. Perhaps this is where the ancient Latin river says the most: Abuse is not use, but corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, in fact, for the Slovenian scientific research community as well as for the whole country, society is an extremely important day. Right here because of this moment. For the first time, we will discuss a completely new, modern, internationally comparable law on research and innovation in this country. We were able to do this because we were able to get together. Today we are starting a discussion on a process that has lasted since 2015, when a first work was carried out within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The first work, which was then upgraded throughout the whole period of all three governments, which were also formed and operated within the Ministry. In the last step, with the help of the current State Secretary and his team at the Ministry and in close cooperation with all stakeholders, the Government was able to prepare, deal with and send to Parliament a proposal for a law that will now be under consideration. And let me thank everyone who has participated in this long-standing, long-standing and very difficult process, which you have cooperated with the understanding and understanding of how important it is to overcome both political and interesting needs in order to help the healthy and knowledge-oriented development of this society. We have shown that it is possible to find not only compromises, but in fact at the end of the consensus on what is also misleading in this law. I believe that the points where we will talk will also be argued, explained and debated. However, I believe that we will follow what the scientific research community itself has made a single message to us in these days. We have received letters of support from all four key scientific research organizations in this country. We also receive letters of support from private research institutions, those most closely linked to economic work. And this tells us how important development and the support of the state of science is, on the one hand, focused on fundamental scientific research and, on the other hand, direct user scientific research. This is the right and healthiest combination of knowledge as a basic basis for both the development of society and the economy. I would also like to stress in particular the fact that our law is in most respects and the solution is in such a way that it also coincides with the modern trends that are now in place in the creation of the so-called European Common Research Area. And here we follow with our hand in each other's hands and prove that in these solutions we are indeed the ones who know how to make a wider international research space and support and those measures that are crucial for further processes. Thank you very much once again to all for all the help you have given to support and address our common law on scientific research, which I understand as our common moral and professional commitment to the good, health and development of this country's society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u160	President, thank you for your word. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In Levica, we are aware of the importance of the long-term, sufficient and stable financing of the public scientific research sector in the country. Although the proposal currently on the table has a number of problems, including the fact that sufficient funding for science does not really guarantee anything, we will support it at this stage, and we will propose some amendments to the law in the final implementation. Slovenia is in Europe at the very bottom of public investment in research and development, as we devote only 0.52 per cent of the gross social product from the budget in our country, which is strong below the average of the European Union, which is 1.4 per cent on average. In recent years, Slovenia has fallen from a group of highly innovative countries according to the criteria and indicators of the European Commission. Among all members of the European Union, in Slovenia, this innovation index has fallen most by 9.9 percentage points from 2012 to 2019, almost 10 percent. This is also due to the 26.5% decline in R & D budget in 2014 compared to 2011. In 2016 Slovenia agreed, pay attention, last but not least, on the basis of the number of researchers index in the European Union. Despite the slightly higher resources in recent budgets, Slovenia is lagging behind the objectives of the Resolution on the Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020, which was adopted in the 2011 National Assembly. This target, thus by 2020, is at least one percent of GDP earmarked for science and research. Science is a long-term activity, which we are aware of and stressing in Levica. If governments leave only financial stagnation or, worse, re-financial cuts or dependence on profit motive and the market, Slovenia will be sentenced to stagnation and the periphery of global capitalism and also to economic subjection to countries that invest in science as opposed to us. If we really want to develop our own scientific research activity and thus the overall progress of all and support entrepreneurship, to which the coalition likes to refer, we need to provide at least 10 to 20 years of stable funding for science, which will continue to grow, irrespective of economic and financial risks. Regardless of the level of funding, there is also a problematic way of financing public research organisations, which does not provide a stable, institutional source of funding. As a result, researchers and researchers live in existential and professional uncertainties. They almost never know if they will be able to secure funding for the next few years. They can’t specialize in the thematic field sometimes even in the long term, because they just have to do what they get with this or that project. Their specialties and careers are being crushed. They produce shallow knowledge and false professional authority. In particular, fundamental research, which has no continuity and is consistent, is at stake. Moreover, it is impossible to set clear national research priorities. The best possible contribution to this law is therefore stable funding or a clear allocation of budgetary resources to finance the institutional programming and development pillar of science funding at the institutions and universities in the country. Despite today's rhetoric on the provision of funds in Levica, we note that the law, as stated, does not provide the full range of budgetary resources. In no way does this bill, which is proposed, oblige governments and parliament to adopt such budgets as would actually ensure stable funding for science. Legally defined funding at the level of one percent by this law is therefore not guaranteed, as the law does not provide for the right of universities and public research institutions to finance. The financing of science is thus dependent on the budget on a regular basis, and thus on the political and public financial situation on a case-by-case basis. In addition, it must be made clear that the law in the transitional provisions provides that this one percent of GDP will be achieved very slowly over the next six years. If happiness is on our side and governments follow the direction of this law, then one percent of the gross social product for science will be achieved in 2028. We cannot assess in Levica that this is good; not that it is a support for entrepreneurship, to which, once again, I stress, this government and this coalition likes to swear, but obviously only in words. In addition, we have a key concern in Levica that is related to the employment situation of employees in scientific research activities and to the orientations of public research institutions. The proposal introduces so-called double wages for researchers who receive funds from other sources. Such a provision will mean disclosing academic workers according to the profitability of activities and the situation within institutions. Double wages also mean a large deviation not only from the single pay system but from the fundamental principle of the pay system; this is to violate the principle of equal pay for comparable work. Financial resources act as a criterion in determining wages and not, as is correct, that the criterion is the scale and complexity of work. It's a very controversial precedent, we warn you in Levica. The government also failed to take into account the trade union's calls to register in the law that researchers within public research organisations are carrying out research work within the framework of the labour relationship. This allows for the exaggeration of scientific research work. In Levica we will also be careful about the provisions relating to the ownership of institutes or to the property of public research institutions. According to the Government, it is a matter of introducing a similar property status as is the case with universities. However, in Levica, we believe that ownership of institutions through the freedom to manage businesses can lead to a misinterpretation of scientific research work. It would be harmful for science, so much more if financed by public funds, to subject itself to the needs of a simple market. In combination with double wages, this law can strongly encourage research institutes to focus on the needs of the market and to pursue only a profitable motive. We will address all of the above in Levica in the future substantive consideration of this law. However, since the purpose and purpose of the bill is to ensure the stable financing of science, what we stand for in Levica and therefore support, we will support the law at this stage of consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, all present in this Chamber! In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we have written in our basic programme that education, science and research are the foundation of our prosperity. A diverse secondary and research space is our great advantage, which we must preserve. Without education, science and research in a globally linked world, we will not be able to compete in terms of abilities and ideas. Higher education and science are at the heart of social progress. We encourage close cooperation with the economy, as it is essential to transfer new technological ideas to the market for the use of new technologies and to create added value. Today's Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, prepared by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth under the auspices of Dr. Simone Kustec and the Secretary of State of Dr. Mitje Slavinca, has received strong or unanimous support from all representative organisations and associations, i.e. stakeholders most concerned by the law. A letter from the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts wrote: “The Law on Scientific Research and Innovation is a fundamental law governing the operation and financing of research and innovation activities. The proposed law will improve the situation and research work and with additional means," I would like to stress with additional means – "allow faster development on the scientific research part of basic own knowledge and its more successful transfer into practice, especially to increase the technological absorption capacity of Slovenian companies. Only then will Slovenia be able not only to follow, but to take sides with the developed countries." End of statement. This was written in a letter from the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. The legal solutions are aimed at ensuring the conditions for the development of quality and globally comparable scientific research activities, providing the basis for adequate and stable funding for public research organisations. The conditions for effective strategic planning and guidance of scientific research activities at national level are laid down. The proposed solutions in the law are based on strategic documents. The law follows, inter alia, the objectives of the Resolution on the Research Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. In the final phase there is also a new, ten-year scientific research and development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia 2021-2030. The law is therefore fully coordinated after more than a decade and a few failed attempts by past ministers and is necessary for the continued success of the scientific and innovation community, as it will allow its development for the growth of the Slovenian economy in favour of the entire Slovenian society. A strong functioning economy is the best social one for all citizens. It was certainly difficult to harmonise the law and required the efforts of all involved, but the Ministry gave the floor to prepare a good law that would receive the consent and support of all, including the management of institutes, the management of universities, the Council for Science of the Republic of Slovenia, the Coordination of Independent Research Institutes of Slovenia, Sviza, the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Economy. Today I can say it worked. The effort is paid and the awareness that the law is important for a better future for all of us, the international competitiveness and excellence of Slovenian science, to be connected today and to be more rescinded. We're doing good, and it's better if we work well together. Members of New Slovenia will be unanimously supported by the Science Research Innovation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u164	Your Honor! At the September session, we will hold a debate on the importance and development of scientific research activities for our society. This is an area of strategic importance for each society and an area that no party can own. We have also received some calls from civil society and professions to adopt the proposed law on scientific research and innovation that we are considering today. Many positive solutions were identified in the law. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts sees several possibilities for improving the situation for research work and promoting faster development in the scientific research work of basic own knowledge and successful transfer of knowledge into practice. They even point out the possibility of raising the technological absorption capacity of Slovenian companies. The Sazou bill supports, the Rector's Conference, the Coordination of Independent Research Institutes of Slovenia and the Engineering Academy of Slovenia also support the proposal. The Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia is one of the supporters of the law, who also publicly presented his support for the law. His recent press release is very eloquent. They pointed out that the harmonisation of the bill was difficult and conflictous, but finally there was recognition that they had only managed to harmonise themselves when they realized that we were hunting the last train for a better future, international competitiveness and excellence of Slovenian science. We couldn't agree better. There are many new solutions to the bill. As the applicant himself points out, a number of major solutions are aimed at ensuring the conditions for the development of quality and globally comparable scientific research activities. The proposal lays down the conditions for more effective strategic planning and guidance of state-level scientific research activities. However, the scientific research activity is a horizontal activity proposed by law, which will be included in various sectoral policies. Let us look at some other solutions to the bill. The establishment of a special expert advisory body of the Government is envisaged, this is the Development Council. A stable funding for scientific research activities and an increase in budgetary resources is introduced to one per cent of gross domestic product. The bill also introduces stable funding for scientific research activities and four pillars: institutional, programme and development pillars and pillars to finance national research programmes. Finally, the possibility of awarding researchers, up to twice the basic salary, will be introduced if funds other than state budget funds are provided for this. A new definition of public service is also important for the establishment of the new system. In scientific research activities involving research programmes and young researchers and infrastructure, administrative and support activities and other institutional infrastructures, national research and development programmes of scientific research activities financed through stable financing of scientific research activities. In recent discussions on funding for scientific research activities, we have repeatedly heard that this area is specific because of the way in which best research projects are selected. In this regard, the applicant himself points out that the independence of funding, particularly independence from political influence, is crucial. The bill guarantees independence from political change and consequently a long-term stable system. According to the law, public research organisations will be able to set up an economic society in order to transfer knowledge to society or the economy. Such a solution reflects the key purpose of research activities, which can also be achieved through the transfer of knowledge in society. One option, however, is, of course, the establishment of knowledge-based enterprises, which is quite limited in the current legislation. However, there is no shortage of safeguards to effectively control the procedures and the set of possible handling of this investment, including the necessary exit from the company when all the conditions laid down are met. We will, of course, be able to listen to a number of arguments for and an argument against, so we have highlighted only a few key solutions to the new law. But, of course, the solutions are much, much more. We believe that through the adoption of the proposed Slovenian law, we can achieve a stable path towards achieving the success of the global dimension and cooperation with developed countries, through the proposal for a law, we can achieve the objective of the Resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy for the period 2011-2020, which will create a modern research and innovation system that will enable better quality of life for all with the critical reflection of society, an effective solution to societal challenges and an increase in value added to the employee and the provision of more and better jobs. We want a society based on knowledge, innovation and economic development within the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We believe that this can be achieved through the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation. The bill will therefore be supported unanimously and with great joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Science, development and innovation are inseparably linked to economic growth and social progress. Competitiveness and economic growth can be based primarily on emerging knowledge and the ability of businesses to take advantage of this knowledge. They were once the most important factors in production: land, work and capital, and today it is crucial for development to take on the role of knowledge and technology. The task of the State, if it wants to maintain its economy competitively, is certainly to create environments that promote new knowledge and entrepreneurship in a way that provides through public policies adequate infrastructure, a quality education system, appropriate legislation and, in particular, appropriate and long-term funding sources comparable to other countries. Slovenia is on the European tail itself after investing in research and development. The fact is that the financing of science in Slovenia has fallen significantly in relation to all other social sectors since 2012. For the first time, the Ministry has increased its integrated research funding in the 2019 budget balance by €24.44 million, making science and research more than €200 million available for the first time. For 2020 and 2021, a good 230 million and 251 million in 2021 are also available for this purpose. Nevertheless, science does not enjoy the kind of support it should have, given the added value it creates for society. When we talk about support, of course I mean not only financial resources, but also the conditions for successful scientific and research work. In the SAB Group, we are deeply aware of the importance of science and innovation, both for the development of our country and for individual scientists and researchers, and we join the opinion of scientists who say that it is a technologically developed society that is a matter of choice and that we must follow this choice regardless of the policy that is in power at some point. Therefore, we are pleased to have reached the point where both the policy and the profession are united in support of the present law, the one before us. In addition to the new law governing scientific research and innovation, the proposal thus establishes a new system framework which, by easing the development potential, allows for greater quality in the implementation of scientific research work, its faster development and better integration into European and global research space and better knowledge transfer and integration with the economy. The main solutions are aimed at gradually increasing public funding for research and development to up to one percent of GDP, mitigating fluctuations in funding while ensuring the necessary stability of funding for science at universities and research institutes. The institutional framework for the design and implementation of public policies in this area is also being defined, and in particular it allows for faster development of its own knowledge, which will make Slovenia more competitive and stand by the most developed countries. In the SAB Group, we believe that we have waited too long for a law that would regulate all of this more systematically and pave the way for a new path. Scientific research and development should not be a hostage of such or other ideologies. The knowledge society is a society of all of us, so in the SAB we will definitely support the proposed law in the first reading. We also agree with Sveza's assessment that maintaining the existing state would mean that Slovenian science would also change into future trees against insignificance, the departure of the best researchers abroad, and the research institutes and departments would change even faster into museums for dedicated research equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with a team, a respected colleague and colleagues! We are Slovenians in the very tip of sports elites, and we are constantly proving them. At this point, we could discuss investment in sport and the added value of our athletes, such as economic development, our tourism industry and whether we know how to connect these points and take advantage of our opportunities. Similarly, we can boast of excellent researchers whose names are well - known and represent elites around the world, whether scientists are prominent research institutes or academics in our universities. Finally, this is also demonstrated in connection with the current health crisis and in the fight against the epidemic in connection with developing a cure for covid-19 disease. Just at the time of the worst crisis, it has been shown how in Slovenia we are able to join forces and participate in major scientific interdisciplinary projects. It turned out that science wanted to return to society what it had invested in it, that it wanted to help it with its knowledge, and that it wanted to communicate with it in an appropriate way with a view to being better understood and exploited for the benefit of general social well-being. The health challenge of Coronavirus in Europe and elsewhere in the world has demonstrated the need for even greater support for science, research and education by new top experts. The fact that science and innovation and research are the driving force behind the global progress of every society and of all mankind cannot be disputed. The social progress and well-being of all and all members of the community are in all respects so closely linked and related to the location of scientific research activities in a country, how the country treats this area. The baseline for all scientific research activities is in the educational system. Given that the latter is comparatively excellent, Slovenians also have excellent predisposition in the world of science and research activities. A key awareness of this is that all these spheres must be interdisciplinaryly linked in cooperation with the economy. If we connect and combine all these factors, we don't miss the success story. It is therefore necessary to have the right frameworks – programme, infrastructure, status and, of course, financial. Since 2002, the Research Development Act has laid down a framework for the operation of the scientific research sphere. For years, the preparation of a new, more modern, more advanced law has been under way, allowing researchers, scientists and research institutions to work more easily, especially more financial stable investment in this area, and the possibility of linking with the economic sphere and opening up the space by transferring and using knowledge. Researchers deserve a stable and stimulating working environment, their knowledge and creativity are invaluable to all of us. They do not deserve a bad marriage journey that would continue to hinder or limit their innovation and knowledge sharing and thus the progress of society as a whole. We agree that special care must be taken to ensure a stable provision of funding resources, and it is essential that there are equal conditions for scientific research for all researchers and all institutions that can make a significant contribution to society's progress. The bill before us includes all of this, according to our assessment. It is also important that it has been coordinated and coordinated with all stakeholders and has the support of all those involved in scientific research innovation. In the course of the parliamentary procedure, there will be still a need to clarify the speeds and possibly to be complemented or even otherwise imposed, and it is crucial that we finally get the renewed system frameworks to effectively support the science environment. The Polish group Desus will support the proposal in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Director of the Science Directorate! “The challenges of modern society require critical reflection and research into the causes for them, especially the renewal of the way of life, operation, creation and integration.” This is an introductory sentence to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law on scientific research and innovation, and it is powerless to disagree with this, especially because knowledge is a good that fulfils both the individual and the society as a whole. Knowledge, however, gives birth to science, which plays a vital role in social progress and the creation of prosperity. Today, finally, there is a law before us which, through the legislative framework, allows for the strengthening of the general development of scientific research and innovation activities and promotes and encourages scientific research aimed at gaining general knowledge and the dissemination and deepening of scientific knowledge. The law is definitely coming too late, but it's here today. In the previous two attempts, objectively speaking, the adoption of the law ran out of time, which is as valuable as gold in politics. Unfortunately, in these few years lost, the gap between the desired and the real dynamics of scientific research has increased. It is known that the situation in Slovenian science is not good and the reason for this is also a skeleton and an old legislative framework. Unsolved development challenges have further increased the vulnerability of Slovenia during the epidemic, and some have further exacerbated the epidemic. This is particularly true for the scientific research sector, due to the lack of general social understanding, of the importance of the scientific research and innovation system. The undeniable fact is that Slovenia, in the development of scientific research activities, is failing to achieve the desired dynamics of development, which is why it is significantly lagging behind. Research institutes find it difficult to acquire new equipment and lack of suitable space for work. A major challenge is how to attract and retain the best young researchers. The state science budget is underfunded, the share is shameful, as the goal of investing in public funds is one percent of GDP today more distant than it was in 2011. But despite the tightening of the unsuspecting legislative framework and the systemic problems of scientific research, Slovenian science can be commended for the trend in the growth of extraordinary achievements of scientists. The law before us today raises these questions and addresses them accordingly. Its main solutions are aimed at ensuring the conditions for the development of quality and globally comparable scientific research activities by providing the basis for stable financing of public research organisations, the possibility of awarding excellent researchers, open access to scientific publications and ensuring a high level of ethics and integrity in science. Conditions are also laid down for more effective strategic planning and guidance of scientific research activities at national level. According to our assessment, the key introduction of stable funding, which is to be achieved through a gradual increase in budgetary resources and to bring about one percent of gross domestic product, with annual growth of 0.8 per cent of GDP. Compared to 2020, this share was 0.52 per cent. Until we reach the target of one percent, there is still a difficult way to go, but let's start with the sparrow in hand and look at the pigeon on the roof. In our Group of Members, we are pleased that we are committed by law to a greater internationalisation of this area, as procedures for the selection of scientific research activities involving foreign experts will be carried out in a foreign language. Self-sufficient and linguistic incarceration shuts us down from the international research community and exploits all the potentials it offers us. The boundaries in science must not be geographical. It is a pity that the Minister has not been able to stand up to the latest novels of the Foreign Act and has left top students from the Western Balkans who want to be scientifically qualified in our country because of the whims of her Minister of the Interior. We also express our expectations, even though with every day of this government we are more despondent that the Minister is not and will not be subject to the interests of those who wanted to come through the back door and, under milder conditions, to the work of public funding. To the extent that this is evident from the further stages of the legislative process, we will respond appropriately in our parliamentary group at the substantive level, not by blinking at the shoulder. How important science is, we have all experienced in the last year and a half. If we do not ensure the integrity of science, the adequacy of its funding and the conditions that will enable scientists to work and infrastructure, there will be more theories about conspiracy, anti-vaccinators and doubters in the future. The results of science must be more public, so that, instead of, for example, Dr. Alojz Ihan and Dr. Roman Jerale, self-declared people will continue to be pushed by esteric medicine and irresponsible use of the Internet. The non-aligned Members will be supported by the draft law in the first reading, and we will continue to pay attention to all the substantive issues that will prove to be not yet harmonised or to be in favour of some political province. As has already been said, at the beginning of the Minister's introduction, today is an extremely important day for Slovenian science and research. The Minister, please, and allow me to say also, I am begging you, to endure pressure and not to agree to a solution that benefits more than science from political goals. History is also a science and it does not forgive great slips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u172	Have a good day to all present! I will not say anything new if I say that research work is essential for the development and progress of society. Without the few ambitious curious individuals in history, we would still believe that the earth is round and light with candles. I think that Slovenia can already boast with a bunch of researchers and projects that they have created. I know that the conditions for working in this area are much more favourable abroad, that young people who are educated are fleeing abroad, where they are achieving excellent results, and we can only boast that they have studied with us. In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that it is essential that this material is finally settled. We are aware that the law under consideration should improve the situation for research work. The additional resources are intended to allow for faster development, with which Slovenia is expected to compete with developed countries. But we cannot help but feel that this will only regulate the working relationship for older researchers. Everything reads to me as an excellent scenario to take care of a new agency, a bunch of those who are unemployed on the market. Good scientists will be accepted by all the institutes. If I understand this research activity, it's young people who come up with new ideas. It all reminds me of the structure of RTV SLO and the eternal battle for chairs and functions. Also, one percent of GDP is quite a large amount for something that is an excellent point for political accounting, and I strongly doubt that they can be pursued for their original purposes. I believe that the purpose was good and that there was an urgent need to be settled if we are to be recognizable and competitive in the world. In view of the current issue that the law is supposed to address, I believe that it has nothing to do with the scientific research itself, but that it is only an administratively regulated situation for older researchers at the moment. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is essential that we first take care of the well-being of the nation in a way that we can quickly get out of the claws of covida and prepare ourselves for a possible new migratory wave. Money is an emergency in health care, in education, in the economy, somewhere else. We must act as good masters and I am confident that there will be time for various academics with hard-to-read titles. If I touch just a few of the most controversial articles of the bill. Article 7, where the tasks of the law are defined, is read as a list of wishes for Christmas and do not have much with reality. Article 8 and other, where newly established institutions are established, lays the basis for the employment of at least 15 persons through connections and knowledge that will wish to be paid at least after the 45th grade. The effectiveness of these is not important anyway. In Article 9, an additional composition of the Council is to be established. You point out that you want an apolitical world, but there are political members in the world. Article 9 states that they will be political members. I really don't know what that means. One percent of GDP, as set out in Article 13, I have already said so. But self-evaluation is also a little questionable. So they will examine themselves and evaluate their work. Isn't that a little funny, dear colleagues and colleagues? Are they really going to have to make their own grades? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u174	Dear voters, respectable voters, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, respectable minister for the team, hello! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put forward a long-awaited law on scientific research and innovation in parliamentary treatment. The competent Ministry of Education has long and intensively coordinated the law with all stakeholders. The task was difficult because the system of science in transition from socialist to modern needed both support from the science factors themselves and a wider social understanding of the role of science, without which today it is not possible to successfully and competitively develop industries, agriculture, health, environmental education; in short, all segments of society and individual activities. One of the key reasons for the changes in the law is the assessments at home and in the European Union that our public research sector is not sufficiently successful and time-consuming and therefore the system needs to be updated. Thus, the author of the law, the competent Ministry of Education, Science and Sport introductoryly highlights the importance and mission of science. The State of Slovenia recognises, taking into account social responsibility, the continuing commitment to science and development and recognises the vital role of social progress and prosperity for its citizens. Based on the strategic documents, Slovenia supports the integrity and indivisibility of science and the strengthening of the autonomy of science and its institutions, both public research and public higher education institutions, while at the same time supporting a coordinated relationship between science, development and innovation, providing only general social progress and prosperity. When the law was established, there were many warnings about the importance of the development of innovation, and the law addressed it accordingly. The general objective of the law is to provide a modern scientific research and innovation system that will allow for higher quality of life for everyone with a critical opinion in society, an effective solution to societal challenges and an increase in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Among the many equally important specific objectives of this rapid review of the law are specific mentions of ensuring adequate research infrastructures and the autonomy of public research institutions, enhancing knowledge transfer and scientific research results and technologies for all areas of social and economic development and promoting science-based innovation, ensuring adequate financial support for activities within the scientific research and innovation system. The law is well structured, defines the scientific research system in the country, the role of the State and the Development Council, describes the programmes, defines the public service and the role of the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also lays down a system of financing and a way of participating in calls for proposals for research projects. The Act provides in Article 93 that the funds allocated to state funding for science shall be increased by 0.08 percentage points per year until they reach one percent of GDP, which constitutes a good basis for the development of science. Promoting curiosity with the simultaneous competence of critical thinking and disciplined data classification and evaluation, integration of areas, identification of common and diametric opposite points should start in early youth. The law addresses society with principles that enable science to spread awareness of the importance of science and the research spirit, systematically encourages by means of instruments that are available so early in the learning life until lifelong education, and provides adequate conditions for the functioning of science in both the public and the private spheres, and all in the service of humanity for the purpose of material and spiritual well-being. The law is extremely important for the development of Slovenia as a whole. It is also important to promote a research and innovation spirit, which, together with successful economic, social and educational policies, will make Slovenia one of the most successful countries in the European Union. The Slovenian Democratic Party will therefore unanimously support the Law on Scientific Research in Innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It is a roofed scientific research innovation law, which has been awaited for many years by the scientific sphere. The law began to be prepared in 2018 by the government of Marjan Šarc. The government proposal that we have today is a substantive follow-up to our guidelines and solutions, but of course it grieves us that the additions that I do not belong to have been given to it again. It is a fact that we all seem to agree with — well, almost all — that resources need to be increased in research and development. That is also what we have always advocated in the List of Marjan Šarc. Since 2011, R & D expenditure has been declining as a percentage of GDP, and since 2018 it has even been lower than the EU average, which makes us even farther away from a group of countries that are leading and highly innovative. Gross domestic expenditure on R & D as a percentage of GDP did not follow GDP growth, as did national R & D budgets. Slovenia must once again compete with developed countries in the field of science and not just follow them. It is necessary to invest both in people and in infrastructure and to strive for scientific research excellence, which must be closely integrated into European and global scientific research networks. The development of research and innovation is crucial to achieving the objectives of the country's social, economic and technological development. The new world situation, conditioned by the pandemic, is particularly proof of the breakthrough power of knowledge that is saving the world today. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the fact that the Government took so long to harmonise and table the proposed law, even though the proposal had already been written at the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. The fact is that Slovenia is catching the last train in this area and that it urgently needs an appropriate law that will promote research, innovation and make it possible to draw more effectively or spend European resources on recovery and resilience. What saddens us even more is that she has put into marriage matters that do not belong to this law or that are again favored by private individuals. In the previous version of the proposal, the funding was written that the state would finance at least one percent of GDP in public research, and in this version of the proposal the word “at least” fell out and now it is only determined that state funding for scientific research activities is provided at one percent of GDP. This means that more than one per cent of the country is not obliged to finance, although the European Commission is calling on Member States in the new European Research and Innovation Area document to commit themselves to increasing their public R & D efforts from 0.81 per cent to 1.25 per cent of GDP. We also find it questionable Article 80 on stable funding for private research organisations, which lays down minimum conditions for obtaining stable funding. The research organisation must have at least 30 FTE employment of researchers in the last eight completed calendar years, which means less than four researchers, which, in our opinion, is not enough. It would be more appropriate to propose 30 FTEs in the last six years or to increase FTE. The proposal also foresees an increase in the autonomy of public research organisations, including the transfer of state assets held by public research institutions in their own institution. We find that controversial, too. To conclude, once again, the law on scientific research and innovation is necessary and, therefore, we are even more saddened by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken advantage of the situation, as it has taken advantage of it many times in the past. Let us remember only all the CAPs and all the meaningless provisions that have even been unconstitutional. It is therefore essential that all these articles, these harmful articles, be removed in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished other representatives from the Ministry, fellow Members, fellow Members! In January 2020, in the course of the previous government, the Science and Technology Council of all key stakeholders, said representatives of public institutions, universities, trade unions and young people in science, endorsed the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation. Unfortunately, due to the collapse of the government, the law did not arrive at its legislative path, but we have warned of the urgent adoption of this law throughout the SD party and the entire democratic opposition. Since there has been no progress in this area more than a year in spite of other promises, a coordinated proposal has been put into the national assembly procedure itself over a period of time, but unfortunately we have not been successful. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the government has decided to continue accepting this, for the development of Slovenia, an extremely important law that has been in preparation for a long time. This is a law that has been pending since 2011 in the area of science and research, development and innovation, when a Resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy was adopted in the Social Democratic Government in the National Assembly and laid the groundwork for a new legal regime in this area. The fact is that Slovenia urgently needs a new system law to finance and organise scientific research and innovation activities, as a new framework for better research and innovation is necessary, as the science area needs additional financial resources, while at the same time the new law will make it possible to make more effective use of European means of recovery and resilience with the aim of making Slovenian society more innovative and our economy raises added value, thereby creating better jobs, better wages and higher prosperity. Therefore, the government's decision to make a new proposal for a law on scientific research can be welcomed, as did key stakeholders, public institutes, public universities, Saz, IAS and Sviz trade unions. The law is largely based on a proposal agreed upon by the previous ministerial team. The text of the proposal thus basically brings what we have already proposed, namely, the funding for science of one percent of GDP, the stable institutional funding of public research organisations, the link between science, innovation and the economy. The latter are of course supported at the principle level, but the devil is always in detail. Today's version has changed and complemented in an extremely non-transparent way, away from the public and stakeholders, past public debate, without a transparent working group or coordination on the competent government council as a key consultative body. Therefore, it can be quickly identified in the law as specific lobbyistic and interesting articles or provisions. This is, for example, the most widely seen in the field of concessions, which will be available to carry out scientific research activities. Practically a new article has been written which deals with the way concessions are granted and the duration of concessions, and in particular the proposal has led to the disappearance of the fuse that a maximum of 5 per cent of the funding of the scientific research activity can be allocated to the public service in the form of concessions. Why is that and who wants such a solution, I don’t think there’s much to explain. Moreover, the projected increase in the level of resources for scientific research has been slowed by a good €10 million, a trend in the growth of funds and ambitions for excellent science, which has already begun with this government, I would not like to see it continue in the future. Therefore, it is also unnecessary that the law of one percent of the resources for science should not be defined as a minimum, but as the final objective, which is contrary to the already published government draft new research and innovation strategy for Slovenia 2021-2030, which is currently in preparation. We will also carefully examine the individual provisions with interest in following the legal procedure, in particular in terms of compliance with the legal framework in Slovenia, and in relation to individual issues of interest, which have either crept into the law or fell out of the law in individual articles. Here we will pay particular attention to the interests of young people in research and science and public finances. Nevertheless, we are aware of the need for Slovenia to reorganise its research and innovation environment in order to increase the impact of the funds invested with higher added value and to increase the competitiveness and added value of the economy in the long term, thereby ensuring a prerequisite for increasing general social well-being. And since we want the bill before us, which is the fruit of much of the work already done before this government, we will support the bill at this stage for further consideration, where we will examine it carefully and further try to complement and improve it, because Slovenia deserves excellent science and because we believe that the best investment we can make is an investment in the knowledge society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, to prepare only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, Minister, Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues, colleagues! We've already said something about these presentations, so I'm really going to try to be very short. We all know and realize in this house that knowledge is the basis for the development of society, including for the development of the economy, and of course that investing in development and research is one of the fundamental conditions for creating knowledge and strengthening the technological level of the economy. Finally, we are also writing about this in the LMŠ programme, and we are aware that the economy is also the one that drives this country – in the notes. Therefore, this bill allows for stable funding, which is essential for the development, research, innovation and innovation to be developed in the future, as Slovenia deserves it, not least, as has been said. Many European and global studies have shown through analyses that investment in research and development has a positive impact on economic growth, which is even more true for developed countries. Thus, the return on investment in research and development at state level is around 15 per cent, and in the most developed countries up to 120 per cent, so that we still have something here, as we say in Prlekia, lufta, to bring Slovenia closer to the best. Slovenia is one of the EU members of the so-called moderate innovators, and for the third year in a row it has held an average of 15th place on the European innovation scale, which is not good. I therefore welcome this bill, which is going in the right direction, because its solutions are aimed at raising public investment for research and development – up to one percent, of course. It is also better to organise an innovative, scientific and research ecosystem to make enhanced investments more efficient and to make a general transition to an innovative knowledge society with a higher added value in Slovenia. Because this is what we need in Slovenia: higher added value. All these major solutions that you've foreseen in the law itself, I'm going to list some. It is proposed to create the Development Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the expert advisory body of the Government. Otherwise, with the experience of this government, we know that these consultative bodies do not have some insanely great power because they are simply ignored by the Government or the President of the Government. I hope so heartily that when the developing world comes to life, it will be obeyed, for that is the goal, if you are already establishing it. Well, it's also true that the government is going to change in the middle, so that's probably what's going to happen. Secondly, there is a stable funding for scientific research, as we have already said, up to one percent. Thirdly, stable funding is being introduced from all four pillars: institutional, programming, development and the pillars of state research programmes. Fourthly, it is also proposed to introduce the possibility of awarding researchers to double the basic salary if funds are already provided but are not the funds of the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This seems to me to be an important provision, purely for a simple reason, because we know so-called university tycoons or mandarins, as some call them, who were very skilled at working, in the notes of course, business with their research institutes and so on. So I think it's important that we limit this possibility here to say that there are more wages than there have been before. Fifthly, with a view to addressing ethical issues and practices in scientific research, it is also proposed to establish a National Council for Science Integrity. I also welcome this because it is necessary to realize that integrity in science must be and should, in fact, be in force without us entering this into the law on research activities. Now, as it is, of course, we can debate this, but of course I wish that this National Council did not have too much work to do in terms of integrity. Then six times, it is also proposed to regulate open access to research infrastructure in public research organisations, which is, of course, consistent with the National Open Access Strategy for Scientific Publications and Research Data in Slovenia. As you probably know, at the University of Maribor they are planning a so-called innovation, in fact it is precisely this open access to scientific infrastructure, which can help those who do not have these scientific infrastructures to use public scientific infrastructure and, on the basis and with the help of this infrastructure, of course, some new knowledge. That seems important to me. And then there's the seventh, the main solution, or, to say the least, a good solution. The proposal for a new law also redefines the public service in scientific research activities in such a way as to mean scientific, social or economical more important and independent scientific research and support activities for their implementation, carried out continuously, qualitatively and non-profit-making, and the results of which are publicly accessible and relevant for the scientific and social or economic development of Slovenia. These were absolutely things to be commended, but of course almost all those who represented the views said that such a proposal had already been on the table since the Minister had joined the ministry. If we are very correct and very precise, of course, it was also prepared by former secretaries of state and also brought almost to the final line. However, some things you have changed absolutely now and it is commendable and I would also expect the Minister to thank the former secretaries for the work they have done. But, okay, everyone has a way of thanking their colleagues. Some just forgive them, while others thank — however. Nevertheless, it must be said that some of the problematic articles remain or are created. Of course, they are very connected — to whom or to what? With funding! As always and as is the custom of this government, we know that they will try to take care of their universities or their colleges in the notes. I mean, if it wasn't, we'd be totally surprised. Therefore, Article 80 on stable financing for private research organisations, which lays down minimum conditions for obtaining stable funding, including in this law. The research organisation must have at least 30 FTE employment of researchers in the last eight completed calendar years, which means less than four researchers. Of course, no serious research institute has fewer than four researchers. They have them — where? Yeah, those private ones, theirs! This is a problem and that is why this 80th article, of course, is written as well. Here, of course, we will propose a different solution in LMŠ because we advocate public education and we are aware that we cannot write laws, so that the real ones also get research money. Article 13 could also be problematic, referring, in other words, to the provision of funds at least in the amount of funds for this purpose in a given year in terms of GDP growth, if negative, for state funding for research activities in the national budget. In 2021, these funds will represent around 0.5 GDP, which means that in the undetermined future it could happen that the funds will also collapse in half, which would, of course, cause irreparable damage and decommissioning of the activities of the institutes. So, of course, we welcome that one percent, we wish there was more. However, it seems to us that there may be some hack in this Article that may be problematic, of course, if there is a collapse and if GDP is negative. I only mention paragraph 60 as far as the transfer of ownership is concerned. According to the new plan, the owners of real property from public and other sources will be public research institutions and not the Republic of Slovenia anymore. There is, of course, also a protector here that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must give its consent before the conclusion of the legal process. Although this article does not seem to be disputed to me personally, I also have experience at the University of Maribor, where we own real estate. When I was a student home director myself, at least this proved to be very good at student homes, because we were able to do the investments and things we were doing, in fact, inappropriately faster than our colleagues, say, in Ljubljana, where this is not the case and where investments are being made at the Ministry. In short, development, if you look at student homes of Ljubljana or student homes of Maribor, is very, very different and faster. I hope to say that the Maribor student homes are definitely the best in Slovenia. And since the Secretary of State is nodding to me because he knows things, we agree on that. So I will not now discuss and explain all the articles and the whole law because I am sure you have read it. As we say, we welcome him in one way or another 90 percent of what has been prepared in the government of Marjana Sharca. Of course, some things you've added, which is not surprising. And as it is said, in the first reading we will support him in the LMŠ, and then we expect to talk to you about these controversial articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We have before us the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation, which we will apply if it is adopted on 1 January 2022. This is a new system law replacing the Law on Research and Development Activities of 2006. The resolution on the research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020 was adopted during the Prime Minister Borut Pahor, the first Social Democratic Government in Slovenia. The content of this document is still up-to-date as it envisaged that by 2020 a responsive research and innovation system would be established, co-formed by all stakeholders and open to the world. This system will be firmly anchored in society, will be in its service, will respond to the needs and wishes of citizens and will enable the major societal challenges of the future, such as climate change, energy, resource scarcity, health and ageing, to be addressed in the resolution. The resolution also envisaged that the legal framework of this system would be established by adapting legislation already in 2012. I'm afraid that didn't happen. This is how we have been waiting for the new law since 2011. The working group for the preparation of the law was thus appointed only in 2015 by the decision of the competent ministry, and the group that acted on the ethical drive last met in 2019. As my fellow magician has already said. Marko Koprivc, in the position of the Social Democrats Group, was endorsed by all the important stakeholders affected by the legislation in January 2020 in the Government's Science and Technology Council. It is said that in the mandate of the government of Marjan Šarc, when the Ministry responsible for Science and Research was headed by the Social Democratic Minister, Dr Jernej Pikalo. Then, in the time of the new government, things stopped, probably also due to the Coronavirus epidemic. Unfortunately, the opposition proposal, which was tabled by the Social Democrats in the National Parliamentary Procedure in March this year, did not get enough votes. Nevertheless, in the Social Democrats Group we support a new government proposal that is not significantly different from ours because it was supported by the Rector's Conference of Slovenia, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, the Coordination of Independent Institutes of Slovenia, also at the Institute of Joseph Stefan, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and within the framework of the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia. However, I must point out here that our proposal was, above all, more financially ambitious than it is now. The government law aims to achieve one percent of GDP for scientific research in 2027. Thus, since 2021, when it amounts to 0.52 per cent of GDP for this activity, it has increased annually by only 0.08 percentage points and the proposal of the Social Democrats has foreseen 0.1 per cent annual growth. The explanation of the law shows the regulation of this area in five countries: Austria, Estonia, Lithuania, Finland and Portugal. In Austria, public investment in R & D was 0.94 per cent of GDP in 2018, in Estonia 0.79 per cent, in Finland 0.92 per cent and in Portugal 0.64 per cent of gross social product. In Slovenia, therefore, we have obviously been lagging behind those countries for several years. Your Honor! Yesterday we celebrated the day of Slovenian sport, which was declared a state holiday. As a nation, we belong to the world sport summit itself, of course, depending on the number of inhabitants and the comparable number of Olympic collages won. I am convinced that Slovenian scientists are not lagging behind the Slovenian athletes. As with the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, for example, before each Olympic Games, the goal is to project potential winners of the Olympic Awards, the country should also set a goal in the field of scientific research in order to win the prestigious Nobel Prize in the field of literature or even the Nobel Peace Prize in the next medium term. But this will not be possible until we have drastically increased resources for science. And for this only one percent of gross social product is likely to be insufficient. What Slovenians as a nation have achieved in the field of science in the past, I recommend reading the book by Dr. Sandi Sitar 100 Slovenian scientists, doctors and technicians, published in the collection of Prešeren’s Society in 1987. Then you'll understand that we should have won the Nobel Prize by now. That is why this objective is more than achievable, of course with the support of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague, Sam Bevk has given me an excellent point. Yesterday we celebrated a state holiday of Slovenian sport, and today is September 24th, Slomškov Day. Slomšek is a protector, if you want, of Slovenian schoolchildren, I can also tell scientists, and how good a case or congratulations to the leadership of the National Assembly, that he has placed today's first reading of the new law on scientific research and innovation. Of course, when I go to look a little in the past, we have little time to achieve what our people, Slovenian scientists in the past, and even today, and I believe in the future will: Joseph Stefan, Stefan's Law, Yuri Vega and so on, say Roman Jerala, published on August 31st last year: The success of Slovenian scientists; proved that the vaccine works; researchers led by Prof. Dr. Ronama Jerale took an innovative path to the development of the vaccine and proved that it works. It's the end of August and so on. Now to the law. Thank God it's on the table right now; we've waited too long for it. In a way, I am optimistic that, despite moderate and logical criticism by the opposition, it seems that the law will survive the first reading and we in Novi Slovenija are looking forward to it already on the home committee. There is undeniable evidence that the path to economic progress and competitiveness is strongly linked to increased investment in research and innovation. It is also evident that the differences between the European Union countries with the economic crisis have deepened. The process went to the detriment of Slovenia during the economic crisis, very to the detriment of Slovenia. The innovation system in Slovenia has been erratic in recent years, both relative and absolute. Therefore, once again, it is a good time for us to have a new law on the table and I am happy and here I acknowledge to the Minister and her team that the text of the law has been able to reconcile practically with all the key stakeholders in Slovenia who mean something in the field of scientific research and innovative activities. This is, in my opinion, a fundamental law governing the functioning and financing of all research and innovation activities and, as such, necessary for further successful research work. The proposed law will, in my firm belief, improve the situation for research work and, with additional means, allow for faster development of its own knowledge, with which Slovenia can not only follow but also compete with developed countries. We note that the bill is well coordinated by all stakeholders, as I have said, and I am therefore confident that we will also adopt this law by the end of this year. I am pleased that among the many who support this law, I see and find a positive opinion from the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which fully supports the proposal of this law and has been signed by the Doctor of Physics, Mr Mark Plesko. There are some other achievements of Slovenian science, Slovenian innovation, if you want, with which we can boast. We are working with the European Space Agency, Slovenia is an associate member of the European Space Agency, which enables Slovenian companies and development research institutions to participate in the agency's space technology projects, companies and institutions involved in innovative materials, technologies, processes or information solutions. Slovenia notes that Slovenia's associated membership in Cerno has also produced important fruits. Slovenia has been an associate member of Cerna since July 2017. Innovation and technological development in companies are extremely important for enhancing the competitiveness of the economy, developing new technologies, reducing the life cycle of products and increasing global competition increase the importance of innovation not only for the future growth of enterprises but also for their long-term survival. Slovenian companies and institutions dealing with innovative materials, technologies, processes or information solutions may, among other things, participate in projects, as already mentioned by the European Space Agency. In recent times, there has been a great deal of emphasis on digitisation. I am pleased that, or that the Government has established the Strategic Council for Digitalisation, I am pleased that the National Assembly has managed so much courage that it has put in place to lead the Minister's Digital Transformation Service, and I believe that the projects that the Strategic Council has put in place will continue in future mandates. I'm saying, it's been a few years now that the one who won't be digital is simply not going to be. It's not some kind of threat, it's basically an axiom, which means if a business entity doesn't step in with time, it just won't. Let me jump about five years ago, in 2016. I said that we have invested relatively little or little in research and development in the economic crisis. At that time, I was at a meeting with the then director of the Institute, Joseph Stefan, and we looked at a comparison with some countries, perhaps just an example, if you please, with Sweden. The quality difference between Slovenia and Sweden, for example, is shown by the following example. Sweden invested €4.15 billion from public sources in research and development in 2016. Slovenia should invest EUR 830 million in 2016 in a comparable manner according to the number of inhabitants. In Sweden, the country's GDP is 2.5 times higher than in Slovenia, so we could conditionally understand that Slovenia cannot afford such investment as Sweden. So we couldn't afford $830 million. Therefore, if we now share this with 2.5, because our GDP is 2.5 times lower than Sweden, we get the amount of €330 million, which is significantly more than what Slovenia actually invested in 2016, when it invested only €145 million. But it probably didn't work out otherwise, either it wasn't political will or whatever. It is necessary, though, to have these comparisons, even though they are five years old, in front of our eyes or to learn from mistakes, as we know. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude once again with the recognition that the ministerial team has made great efforts to harmonise this text with all stakeholders involved in scientific research and innovation. I believe that this law, when it enters into force, may need some optimisation after a while, but I believe that Slovenia will be able to stumble among the first five most developed countries of the European Union. When all this text of this law, a comprehensive, complex law, I would like to narrow down perhaps one sentence and then say this: the mission of research and innovation is to systematically develop new knowledge and its use for sustainable development, to improve the quality of life and the well-being of all. So be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. I'll have a short replica. I am pleased that, in my debate, my colleague Horvat received a starting point for his performance, but as I said, I would have had a replica when he said that Minister Simona Kustec was able to reconcile the law with all stakeholders. That's true, and it's good. And it is true that this has also worked for Minister Jerne Pical. Indeed, in January 2020, at the time of the Sharča Government, we adopted a bill which is not significantly different from the current one, harmonised and confirmed in the government's science and technology council. Unfortunately, because of the fall of the Sharcha government, this law was never sent to the National Assembly. However, we Social Democrats have tried the same law as the opposition parties, but, of course, according to tradition, when the opposition proposes something, unfortunately this proposal has not received sufficient parliamentary support. I just wanted to say that both proposals were in line with all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. But I don't think it was a very typical replica, but the contribution was constructive, I'd like to say. So I suggest we move on. Vojko Starović has the floor to prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u188	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! At the parliamentary week in Brussels, at which I had the opportunity to participate, there was a debate on investment priorities in the coming period. It has been quite clear that common European investment in open science – I emphasise, open science – is being paid and paid high wages. Investing in open science remains a priority for the period 2021-2027, with over €100 billion planned at European level. With us, too, I find that fortunately, the share of science is increasing. In 2019, it is estimated at 200 million, with more than 250 million projected for this year. That's what we welcome. I also took part in the debate at the time in Brussels, in which I stressed my support for the orientation that an appropriate part of investment in science is also devoted to fundamental research on the organisation and functioning of society, its institutions, systems and organisations with the aim of finding solutions that will bring greater efficiency and stability to institutions and society as a whole. I am also convinced that science can decisively help to shape and make good political decisions. In Aristotle's spirit, which defines politics as the public activity of free people, which is reflected in the effort to ensure order, stability, prosperity and justice in society. A very extensive and thorough study by the World Bank entitled What resources create the wealth of nations, the measurement of capital in the 21st century, which was made on a sample of 120 countries, has clearly shown that the key factor in the well-being of countries is intangible capital. This is human capital and the quality of formal and informal institutions. There, in developed countries, where Slovenia also belongs, it has more than 80 per cent influence, while production capital has only 17 per cent and adjusted capital has only 2 per cent. So 80, 17, 2 and here science has a big and huge role to play. In short, it is good that targeted scientific research is also launched for the company's field of operation, such as the Cern project model, in which we also participate and are in the field of physics. I believe that the results of such an approach can bring many new knowledge and insights that can greatly help to address the challenges posed by an increasingly complex and unpredictable social reality. Today science has in particular in the field of neuroscience – social science I speak – great data, theories of games, experimental economies, powerful tools to study the functioning of society. Using these tools and results, social engineering is becoming increasingly effective, but in practice it is mainly used for commercialisation and manipulation in favour of individual interests, not for the common good. That's the problem. As an example, we can place the development of neuromarketing that bypasses the defence mechanisms in the consumer's brain, the resistance breaks down, so that people buy things they don't even need, with money they don't even have. Like any new knowledge and knowledge, discovery, new technologies benefit the good of man, but also the bad of man. Here ethical questions are being asked and here I think that we are valid and we have one landmark, which also science must adhere to – European values achieved. This is ours. It must also be a landmark for our science. So in our client, SAB, we are very aware of the importance of science and innovation in both the natural and social fields. We join the opinion of scientists who say that becoming a developed country is also a technological matter of choice, which we must follow regardless of the policy that is in power at some point. That is why I am very pleased that we have reached a point, despite these differences, and I am and there, to the proposal of a law that is before us, which is supported by both the position and the opposition, and in particular by the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I am pleased to see encouraging words from a wide variety of stakeholders about the content of this law. This is primarily the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, the Sviz Union, the Rector's Conference, the Slovenian Academy of Engineering and the Coordination of Independent Research Institutes of Slovenia. The alarming situation in this area of research and scientific activity is the reason why all these stakeholders call for the early validation of legal changes. However, according to the latest data, Slovenia has increased its budget funding for research activities for the fifth consecutive year since, during the previous mandate, i.e. the time of the previous government, a trend in the reduction of resources for science has stopped for the first time since the financial crisis. For the first time in the budget documents at the time, there was a first increase in the budget for this activity. I was part of this coalition, and I'm proud of this job. I also believe that the minister who shared the parliamentary bench with me at the time shares this same kind of pride with me. I would also like to point out the satisfaction that the law offers the possibility of setting up secession firms. This is news, because from now on public research organisations, if the law comes into force, will be able to set up companies. Why is that important? The transfer of knowledge, which is in fact one of the fundamental essences of research activities. All our universities and institutes have technology transfer offices and they help researchers to break into the market, but the establishment of secluded enterprises, as they know abroad, and when the university, the institute invests its intellectual property and in Slovenia it is not possible. And this obstacle has largely brought about the development and popularisation of science in our country, so it is certainly a big step and an important plus brought by this bill. I know an example from Maribor where the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology began to develop a system of rapid tests to determine the presence of covid virus, but precisely because it was impossible to establish a company, it was very difficult to reach production and reach the market. If this were the case earlier, we would probably have much more success, for example, and we would have been famous for the remarkable achievement that they were able to create. However, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions, but it is not now, but I think the Director of the Directorate of Science will have to some extent the answer to this. This projection is intended to achieve one percent of our investment in science and research by 2027. Is that real? Since Article 93 states that if growth is not or is not negative or insufficient, the reference period for achieving the target of one percent of GDP shall be extended for each year by negative growth. So it may be that in just 20 years we will reach this goal, and that development span will deteriorate so much that today’s law will not help us. The next question, which is good to ask and even better to get an answer to it, is what happens to the Resolution on the Slovenian Research and Innovation Strategy. It is true that today there is a law before us, but the resolution in force has expired already in 2020. And according to the hierarchy of legal acts, the new law should be written on the basis of an existing resolution which, in practice, had quite a clave. That is why I am giving the initiative and, of course, the question of when and how we could bring this document as soon as possible and bring it into line with the law that we are adopting today and we are likely to adopt it in the coming months. I would also ask the Minister and the team to explain the involvement of private research institutes in the public service. According to the law, the public service will also be able to carry out private law research organisations and will have to meet the conditions for obtaining stable funding. I am interested in whether these conditions are completely equivalent to public research organisations or more specifically – and this is indeed a question for the Minister, because even if she knows, I know that none of her co-workers can answer in this way – have you faced pressure from some stakeholders to mitigate these conditions when preparing this proposal? And that's my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get Tadej Šuštar Zalar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! To begin with, Mr Vice-President, it is interesting that both the Minister and the Secretary of State have left the Chamber together. Besides, I know that there is Dr. Boh, who is actually the greatest expert in this field and is competent, but yet there is some protocol I think we could stick to and at least one of those who have the right to speak at the meetings of the National Assembly would be right to sit in the Chamber. At least this shows some respect for the National Assembly as an institution. But I believe and I hope you'll be back soon. As far as the law is concerned. I think today is a very happy and important day for Slovenian science. Indeed, we have waited for this law for quite some time, as has been said since 2011, since the adoption of the resolution, which stipulated that this law should be adopted within a few years. However, I would like to point out once again, that today it has been repeatedly said that the law is in line with all stakeholders, which is, of course, very good, but I would like to point out that the law has been drawn up in the vast majority or practically entirely under the previous government, under the ministry of Dr Jerne Pikal, and that in January 2020 this law was also harmonised and even confirmed by the Science and Technology Council. At the time of the change of power, it was somehow the commitment of the new government to reintroduce the law immediately into the parliamentary procedure and this did not happen. That is why we Social Democrats alone, a bad year or a good half ago, would have called it that, once again, we put an unaltered law into the parliamentary procedure and there was no need for a majority to adopt this law. This is probably just proof that some may have prestige, but, as I say, it is crucial that today's law is on sent-off benches. Science is urgently needed and, in a global way, we also absolutely assess the Social Democrats that the law is good and we will support it at this stage. However, it is true, as has been pointed out several times today, that certain articles have been reintroduced into the law itself, especially the articles that speak of the award of concessions, is not it? How interesting! We know that this government is very fond of handing out candy and in some ways favouring private people, and that the concessionaire is also somehow relieved of conditions and is a little less ambitious in terms of funding. Of course, once again, there is a big step forward on the existing situation, but our proposal has talked about one percent or more of GDP, at least one percent, while now we are only talking about achieving within so many years up to one percent. He might have replicated Mr Horvath in some way when he spoke of the fact that as much as Sweden we cannot invest in science, given that they are so much more developed and rich, simply said. You know, Mr Horvath, it is in some way necessary to catch them and we will catch them if we invest, perhaps, at this stage even a little more in science. But we know that science is the key to the development of society as a whole and to the progress of society. So once again, I am pleased that today this law is here, we will support it at this stage, but we will continue to table certain amendments. I am also pleased that we are together to confess some great recognition of science and to trust it, namely, in these times of co-vide and various brilliant ideas about how the virus is not or what is not, it is so important that we say in one voice that we trust science and that science is at the end of the day again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word has Tadej Shuštar Zalar, to prepare Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I am pleased to discuss today the law that unites, the law supported by both the majority of Members, the Government which has prepared it, as well as other important organizations in Slovenia, including the Coordination of Slovenian Research Institutes, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Syndicate of Education and Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, and the Engineering Academy of Slovenia and many others. We are aware that R & D has not been invested in financial resources for a long time and that this area in Slovenia has been heavily underfed. The legal solutions are aimed at ensuring the conditions for the development of quality and globally comparable scientific research activities by providing the basis for adequate and stable funding for public research organisations. The conditions for effective strategic planning and guidance of scientific research activities at national level are laid down. The funds shall be provided in the national budget and also from other resources in accordance with the objectives and priorities set out in the strategic documents of the State and the European Union. It is proposed that funding for scientific research activities in Slovenia is increased by reaching one percent of GDP, with an annual growth of 0.08% of GDP. The law introduces open access to research results, scientific journals and monographs of Slovenian publishers, evaluation of quality and impact of scientific research and integration and integration of the public concerned. Open science measures are defined in the action plan adopted by the Government, taking into account the scientific research and innovation strategy of Slovenia and the recommendations of European research policies. This law also states that a researcher in a research organisation with a full scientific research activity may, if funds are made available for this purpose, exceptionally carry out a scientific research activity of a maximum of 20 per cent full-time work with the same employer, but not from state funding for scientific research. This is an incentive for researchers to work with the economy, to engage in international projects and projects that are not funded through the budget. This will encourage the transfer of knowledge into the economy and also into a wider society. This will also improve the use of research results. Education, science and research are the foundation of our prosperity and diversity and our research space is our great advantage, which we must maintain. Without education, science and research in a globally linked world, we will not be able to compete in terms of abilities and ideas. Higher education and science are the foundation of social progress, we encourage close cooperation with the economy, as the transfer of new technological ideas to the market is essential for the use of new technologies and the creation of added value. That is why I am very much in favour of this law, which brings financial stability to science, more resources to researchers, including greater flexibility and transfer of knowledge to the economy, which is of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Let's keep going. Lydia Ivanus has the word to prepare Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u196	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Just for a little while. I believe that the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation brings modern regulation of the functioning of science to a rapidly evolving social and technological reality and provides the basis for the rapid development of Slovenia in all areas. The Act provides in Article 93 that the funds allocated to state funding for science shall be increased by 0.08 percentage points per year until they reach one percent of GDP, which constitutes a good basis for the development of science. In addition to funding arrangements, particular emphasis should be placed on the importance of the law in the field of young researchers. Young researchers are doctoral students who have been hired by the research institute to obtain doctoral education. The most talented students interested in the field of research will be able to educate and keep Slovenia at home in the planned increase in resources for science. All too young people have gone abroad in the last decade to find better opportunities and working conditions. Indeed, science is for all mankind, and it is also true that Slovenia wants to keep its young in the country. It is right that young people go abroad for new experiences. This is also supported by the Erasmus programme, which is dedicated to a record amount of more than €26 billion. Negotiations and extraordinary achievements are to be attributed to the European Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Milan Zver. In the framework of education abroad, young people also acquire competence in the field of scientific research. We are so proud of the many young people who have established themselves abroad at the best universities. It's a lot of names, I won't expose them, but they're so much more famous in the world. But it is also right that they share their rich experiences of foreign youths, who have also given them all the education to develop their potential. It is important to understand, however, that Slovenia must give them the conditions for them to continue their work in an equivalent manner. An important part of this law is meant to do so. Taking care of young researchers is one of the most enjoyable points of this law among other solutions, so I will be happy to support further consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word to prepare the Jurassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present! The Law on Scientific Research and Innovation is likely to be one of the most or the most difficult laws to expect in the field of research. It was formed intensively for more than half a decade. In fact, it has been intensive since 2015 and has included a very wide range of stakeholders in the preparation. In the case of solutions, the law followed the most successful foreign systems and, above all, relied on the evaluation studies of the Slovenian research and innovation system. Personally, I believe that marriage solutions are designed in a way that achieves consensus and broad support for the marriage proposal. This broad support is also shown by the numerous letters of support we have probably received from all Members. Some of you have already listed certain institutions, so I won't have them again. In this place, however, I would really like to thank all those who have participated in this process and contributed their part to the formation of this very important law, especially Minister Simona Kustec and in particular the Secretary of State, Dr Mitja Slavinc, who is also here with us, because he has been working very hard in these last months and has tried to reconcile the law with all the stakeholders, and this has also worked. I will now be very brief, because most of you have already mentioned the most important solutions, but I would really like to stress that this stability of funding, which is gradually increasing, is very important, because the independence of funding, especially independence from political influence, is, in my view, crucial for science and innovation. Then this increase in the autonomy of public research organisations, special attention or importance is the possibility of creating an economic society, it is very important to stimulate the reward of researchers so that we can hold them back or perhaps even attract them back to Slovenia, which is crucial; the definition of public service – which is some of these really good solutions. It is therefore a matter of establishing closer cooperation with the economy, focusing on the needs of further social development. Also to identify the basis for European cohesion policy instruments and, as it is said, has many positive properties or positive movements. I therefore believe that by adopting the proposed Slovenian law, it provides a stable way to achieve the success of the global dimension. As in the parliamentary group, we will, of course, support the law, because we want a society based on knowledge and innovation and economic development, and we believe that this proposal for a law on scientific research activities can actually achieve this. As I say, I will support the marriage and thank all those who have participated in the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrjan," ready to be Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u200	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear guests, distinguished Members and Members and, of course, all those who accompany us at today's session and in this debate, welcome! For two hours now, we have been considering the extremely important law before us, and, as at that time, the power to understand, has broad support both in this temple of democracy and in those who have also been designed, coordinated, and brought to the final stage in the form that we have before us today. As we know, it is a fundamental law that systematically regulates the financing of Slovenian development, research, innovation, and science as one of the very important elements in society. That science, development, progress, innovation for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša is one of the important priorities, this law, which we are dealing with today, is acting. It is important to regulate this area at systemic level and to achieve the objective of achieving at least one percent of the gross domestic product to be used for research and development. According to the current state of R & D in 2021, we estimate 0.52 GDP. According to the projection or under this law that we have before us, an increase of 0.08 percentage points will reach at least one percent in 2027. If we go in numbers from a nominal point of view, this means that for 2022 we spend more than €68 million in additional resources, an additional €68 million in R & D law. For 2023 and for 2024, when the budget is not yet adopted, for 2023 the research and development funds will have to be at least EUR 367 million and EUR 2024 431 million. This means that adequate research infrastructure will also be provided, that it can be made possible, that knowledge will be upgraded more quickly and that knowledge will, of course, be more easily, faster and better translated into practice. Promoting technological, non-technological and social innovation brings this law, and thus, of course, increasing productivity and greater added value in our economy. Of course, it should also be pointed out that the law therefore also entails raising the technological absorption capacity of Slovenian companies. This means that Slovenia will not only follow, but – I am sure – also guide the technological and development guidelines of the future. That is why this law is as important from a strategic point of view as it is, of course, one medium-term period. I would also, of course, like to point out the aspect of young researchers who have had to go abroad too many times in the past. With this law, we give young talented researchers the opportunity and return their knowledge to their talents, to develop their potential in their own country, in the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, brings various steps forward in several areas of Slovenian society: from faster, more effective solutions to societal challenges than, of course, Slovenia as well as some knowledge society, as companies of technological innovation, on which, of course, economic progress and higher economic growth will be based in the future. I am confident that these issues will also be reflected in the increasing productivity and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the international environment, which multiplies the effects of this law. All of the above at the final stage then also affects the higher standard of living of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will conclude my debate with the emphasis that this law is widely harmonised. This fact is also confirmed by the fact that, at the announcement of the hearing at this meeting of this law, they have been very clearly and explicitly defined in the Coordination of Independent Research Institutes of Slovenia, the Rector's Conference of Slovenia, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art where, respected and respected, this law, prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša, is fully supported. I am also pleased that the law supports and urges Members and Members to support it, to support it as soon as possible and to bring it through the parliamentary procedure, including Svez. That's eloquent, too. In short, respectable and respected, as we see, this law enjoys broad support, and it is up to us Members and Members that we may further elevate it through consideration. However, I am convinced that the current story, the current text of the law brings comprehensive systemic solutions, which are an important and moving step forward in research, development and science in the Republic of Slovenia, and the attention which the country must and with this law also give them. That is why I will fully support this law, and I am sure that this is an important step forward for Slovenian science, research, development and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u202	Dear President, thank you very much for your words! And I'm just going to get to the debate of Mr Ferrian, the former Member of Parliament. In fact, he gave a very good point that without development or even concrete investment in R & D, we cannot really become a knowledge society or a developed society. Investment in knowledge and development in essence also means development in all areas, including social, social, ethical, moral, whatever. I think that it is really necessary to direct every effort to make as many of these funds available for research and science as possible. As mentioned earlier, the current situation is just like that in Slovenia, that we allocate only 0.6% of GDP for development or science, which is in fact almost a percent less than all, than the EU average, which on average invests about 1.4% of GDP. And this is already the one who should be more ambitious about this law or even more ambitious about it. Because in fact, not only are we digging, but we've been unfortunately going back lately. Because, according to the European Commission's indicators, we have actually fallen from these highly innovative countries into a group of moderately innovative countries, which is actually a major harm given that we have a real potential. It must be acknowledged that we have a very good cadre — including education or profession — that is, unfortunately, because of some political failures we are losing or we are literally taking it abroad. Here, too, I see a lot of potential, or I would like more ambition or ambition by the Ministry and also by the Minister, so that it is possible for this plan until 2027, which is again linked to GDP or also to essentially this law does not guarantee in principle that there will be an increase in these resources for development and science every year, but only in the case of all these budgets each time, which will be adopted by 2027. [[…]] This is one of the problems that will need to be called or highlighted. I think that I can also ask Mr Slavinac this very question because this seems to me to be a very large disciplinarian, and I hope that it will also look forward to the fact that, irrespective of the budget adopted, 0.8% of GDP for development and science is allocated each year. Otherwise, I do not know how we could be competitive again or how we could then compete with other European countries, as has already been said, as Mr Slavinac knows that we have a professional staff at universities – yes, we are only losing our top. As far as these matters are concerned, I also have one concrete question about the allocation of these funds. I note that this stable funding is also unclear, as I have already called it, because the financing pillar in Article 17 is so widely defined that it is not at all understandable what it is. This would be asked for a sufficient explanation, or if you would explain this article to us, what is the point, how will you define it, or also properly frame it, so that we can understand where, where, and what we can expect. Then the law also preserves this and even expands existing ways of financing, where there is actually one problem. These forms of funding encourage plethora, resulting dispersion and these things. I would like to know whether you will make it more specific in this law that as little as possible of this penitentiary employment in the context of this development and science by the institutions as possible. Unfortunately, I also notice that, or even when I talk in the field, there is a great problem that many researchers, or even these doctors, students, however, have one and the only, most often the only big problem; they have knowledge, they have expertise, they have mastery over everything, but they are contentiously employed. It is said that only in part or in part, and they are sentenced to life on many occasions, even though they achieve quite superior results or research according to their profession. Here I hope you'll do your best for this part. What we are also afraid of in Levica is these provisions, which are related to the ownership of the Institute or to the property of public research institutions. Because, according to the Government, the introduction of a similar status of real estate as is the case with universities, we in Levica believe that ownership of institutions can lead to a misinterpretation of the research work itself as pure entrepreneurship. We are simply afraid that it would not be true to privatize the profession or our education, which, as a result, is either reluctant or willful. So please, if you can answer me about this Article 17 and about the possibility of reducing the cost of or overreaching employment within these institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word is "Iva Dimic." Let's get Željko Ciegler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mitja Slavinec! Indeed, you have done a great deal of work, sitting at the common table of all stakeholders involved in scientific research and innovation activities, and with them have coordinated the law that we have before us step by step today. It was said that a similar law had already been tried by a number of ministers, but it failed. I am pleased that this has worked for you and that this law will improve the position of scientific research and innovative activities in Slovenia. Let me just answer some of the observations that have been transmitted today, that Slovenia is at the bottom of the funds earmarked for scientific research, that the fall was 26.5% already in 2014, that we were last in the European Union in 2016. Look, that's all true. I am not saying anything, but I can say with appreciation for this government, for Minister Simono Kustec, that, for 2021, in the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, the item for the scientific research activity increased by 21 million and in the draft budget for the following year, 2022, for science and the information society will be allocated to EUR 324 million, which is 44 million more than the estimated realization in 2020. The science research activity totals 316 million, which is around €44 million more than estimated in 2020. In short, we prove that in the field of scientific research and innovation we are serious and that this is certainly what will be the prosperity of the whole of Slovenia in the coming years, the success of the economy. What I would like to stress in this law is, of course, that additional funding will be provided at the rate of one percent of GDP, which will gradually result in growth. I read the interview myself several times by scientists Natasha Zabukovec Logar, and many of you probably know her. Her interview is read as a book from which they look at scientific research and innovation activities in Slovenia. It was a question of brain drain. She replied that young scientists must gain international experience, international knowledge. However, what is cancer is a wound – and I hope that in Slovenia we will know these scientists back to Slovenia, and above all what these scientists are warning them all the time that we will give them the opportunity to work in Slovenia. Why are many scientists still abroad? Because there is no employment for them in our academic or economic space. I sincerely hope that by raising the stable funding of scientific research activities this solution will bring this law and that, of course, our knowledge, the experience of our young researchers will, of course, be transferred to Slovenia and our economy. It's the common desire of all of us. But I'm really glad we got this marriage. And once again, all congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. As last reported, he gets the word Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. The present law is proof of how some important topic for the country can stop the nation from coordinating for a long time, perhaps too long, but also the change of governments, the change of ministers did not affect that they would not eventually reach a product for which I see today that there was almost no vote against this law. I'm glad it's just a law on scientific research. I am also comparing it somewhat with two important laws – investing in the Slovenian Army and investing in Slovenian health care. Now the third part of the triangle is actually a priority in this society. The law also provides for the Development Council in its initial work. This development council also sets out a strategy for the development of science and also decides a policy, because it is the State or Government or the National Assembly that determines this policy and also determines the amount of money devoted to science. So, if something important has happened, today happened when so many and so many years of efforts were made by different people, but for the same good purpose. At the same time, allow me to shed some of the fears expressed by my colleague Korazi. In fact, it says that public institutions, research institutions will have their property. It's not like that, because for every major matter, they have to get the government's consent, it's not going to work that way. It is only that it is easier to do business this way and, of course, it is also a matter of trust to the institutions themselves, that they manage carefully with property known to be obtained by state money or by tax money. To be afraid of privatisation, it probably won't. In fact, no public school or public research institute has yet been privatised and will not. I don't think there's a man with that kind of money in Slovenia or abroad who can and would like to buy one such institution, and of course it's in Slovenian hands. Slovenian science is valued both in Slovenia and abroad and I think we can be proud that today we can allow this science to receive even more money over the years. Of course, this is the basis for the development of the whole society, both the economy, industry, agriculture, the environment, education and other social sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the Government of Dr Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. I've managed to write down all the questions that I'm about to answer. I will start in the order we estimate that the most important and most important are, of course, pennies, as we say in Prekmurje, and therefore with funding. So one percent of the GDP defined by the law is, of course, the first step, because I recall the conclusion that the government was too ambitious about funding, but I stress that this is only the first step, because the final objective, which is in line with the European Research Area, is 3 percent of GDP. Of course, we need to be very precise here, and this is about 3 percent, which is the sum of what the budget gives and what is obtained from the economy and other resources. That is why we also place so much emphasis on this cooperation and the transfer of knowledge to the economy. Only in this way will we achieve the extraction from this second work, i.e. from the economy and other science stakeholders. It should be stressed, however, that science gets twice as much as it does now under this law, and thank you all who have found that it is essential and crucial at this moment to actually improve the situation and situation as it is at this point. Why so, this is certainly not a coincidence, for it is a consequence of the difficult times that have been in the past, and then it is always saved, even in companies, on that part that is not essential to existence. They cannot save in production, so they started to reduce funds for knowledge, science, development and so on, of course, the country reacted. Of course, I agree that 0.08 per cent is less than 0.1 per cent, which represents annual growth, which has been discussed, but this law is different from all the previous ones that have been discussed – and in this place I thank all those who have helped prepare these good starting points – this law has gone through the government procedure and you all know how this process is going. On the one hand, the stability of the budget must be taken care of; on the other hand, each ministry stresses the importance of what it represents and what it proposes. And that's a very good compromise between 0.5 and 1 percent, so it's more than half. The next thing we had to do with funding was anchor, which we talked about or listened to. This means that if GDP growth is not positive, we will not return to one of the starting years, but remain at the same level as last year. This is very important, it is very important for the stability of funding of scientific research institutions, from a given as such at all. As a result, we are so much more pleased that this has been preserved in the inter-resortmental coordination, but of course at this point I stress that, as long as you manage to adopt a more ambitious budget for the Ministry of Science or which will cover it in any way, then this 0.08 percent will also be able to increase and we will achieve the desired goal substantially, substantially earlier. [[Incomprehensible]] There have also been some concerns about the transfer of property, and I reiterate that this is a parallel that works very well in the area of higher education. Thank you very much for your support in the debates, whoever you found out about this. Specifically, Member Lidija Divac Mirnik gave an example of the University of Maribor and student homes. The good experience and example of good practice that has guided us in this regard is that if someone has infrastructure, then, of course, other resources are so much easier and with so much more interest invests and invests in this infrastructure. Just as some institutes have been so far, because they have received demanding equipment from the project, which they could not put on the road and have diverted some of these funds into new buildings. Establishment of companies. This is also one of the important novelties in the law, and in this place we might jointly recall the inventors and innovators of the past, who are known today by their companies, such as Graham Bell, Bell Institutes and also their companies, Dunlop, many know this rubber; Dunlop was the one who invented the aircraft. [[…]] We all know Bosch. And you don't even have to go that far, there's a case I know from Prekmurje, Benko, who upgraded his innovation of preserving meat products with meat. Rewarding the best researchers to double wages – we already have this in Slovenia. You know, a lot of doctors work so hard to earn almost a double salary or so. This, of course, is also happening in other environments, in particular in science, I know from a number of specific cases that the nature of work is such that they cannot leave research for 8 hours a day and go. And that, of course, makes it so much more welcome and so much more proper. If we do not allow this because it is not a matter of budgetary resources, we condemn those obtained by the parties to our science to an average and a balance sheet. And more importantly, those who have gone abroad to give them a financial motive to return to their research equipment. Ethics and integrity are certainly two categories that are important to the content of this law in the open science. But I am even more pointing out innovation, because innovation is the one that provides the most direct transfer of science and knowledge to the economy, that is to say to the real sector, where we can take advantage of the fruits of this science in practice as soon as possible. With regard to Article 80, it is not intended to be for private or public purposes only; on the contrary, one of the differences in Article 80 is that it is the same and equal treatment of both private research institutions and public institutions. This is certainly not the cause of concern for favoritism. On the contrary, the Institute for Nationality Affairs does not meet the conditions required by Article 80 at this time, but I am sure that I am very confident that in 8 years, as long as there is time, these conditions will be more than met. And to many, this article can really be an incentive to further improve its excellence. With this, of course, I also stress that we have stable funding in the law, and this stable funding for 8 years also ensures the existence of research institutions. Science is such that it's not from tomorrow. Many studies take years and should be invested, invested in them, in people working on these studies, and only years later, in years, results will come. The Emri Academy once asked me if I knew why people like to chop wood. Because of the progress that has been made at each stroke, it is evident that something has been cut. But science is very different. But you don't see anything for many years, and you feel like you're stepping in. I'm talking about bigger projects. For this reason, the eight years are certainly a time when more than once the cycle has turned. With regard to the question of self-evaluation, this will be done only by the research institutes at the starting points, and the starting points will be self-validated and will then be internationally evaluated. On the basis of these, of course, they will continue to be discussed and also decide on their further financing. Far from evaluating themselves, far from sharing funds immediately, they will prepare a starting point. And why does this seem important to us? For a number of reasons. The first most important is that each institution knows best what their parade horse is and what they can expose and where they can do even better in the future. The second is certainly that when they assess themselves, they present where they are good, we do not burden them, we do not impose an additional part on the public administration, which would certainly require additional employment and we wanted to avoid it. With regard to concessions, the law already equates public and private investigative institutions and, of course, we want to connect all science on the basis of excellence, not on the basis of where and who does it. Science only considers results and therefore puts excellence as a criterion and criteria and is internationally comparable. With regard to the Nobel Prize, thank you very much. In fact, with sports medals, this is the goal of every researcher. We know that the Olympic medals are awarded several rows of size, more than the Nobel prizes. But I would still like to remind you here that Slovenia can handle the Nobel Prizes. All the kids in primary school, in high school, meet Pregla in a chemistry contest. The fresh example is Lucca Caifez Richtaj, who was on the team, in the group that won the Nobel Prize, but this accurately indicates a change in the reality of science. At times, individuals could have earned the Nobel Prize, now it is a large group. In any case, it is a large group, even when one or two of them are on top of the summit, most of all three, when they share the Nobel Prize, are actually followed by thousands of researchers. And it is true that without Slovenia having much money for science, ours will not be included in this summit despite their knowledge, ideas and permeability to be exposed to the Nobel Prize. This makes it so important that sometimes what happens in the case of our Nobel laureate, Caifeit. As regards the research strategy, in one inter-resort coordination it has already been aligned with all stakeholders and is now awaiting inter-resortmental coordination in the government for the second time, final. Here we find it very important that we create a research strategy together with a higher education strategy, which is also in the final stage, and I predict that these two strategies will soon be in decision-making on your benches too. With regard to a law that had previously been aligned with a number of stakeholders under the leadership of Minister Pikal. Thank you very much for all that was done at the time, but I point out one important difference, and that is that this law is also in line with the Government, and in these coordinations there have been many more talks, compromises, and I am still pleased that we have managed to bring it so far. As far as the pastry is concerned, it's the other way around. This law also protects young people and especially young people from work, as stable financing provides longer-term employment. However, the fact that science is such that it is based on projects and because it is based on projects, we have also committed these limited jobs to the project time, to the duration of the project, not for a month, two to take someone, but that someone can only engage in the entire project and then prove themselves. Of course, there are different options, someone on the half of the project or sooner will realize that this may not be the most written on his skin and he will look for other solutions, but security is assured. It shall also extend time for those who are employed for a fixed period of time for any hospital or maternity leave. And then there was Article 17, which was also a question. The financing pillar provides an opportunity for an individual institution to decide what their priority is and whether to give priority to scientific excellence at a basic, basic level, or applicationivity, cooperation with the economy, or some third combination. For this reason, we estimate that it is precisely this pillar in this Article 17 that will ensure that the safety of employees is actually at a significantly higher level than ever before. This is where I thank you for your questions. I also briefly presented those important novelties of the law, but of course then I can still answer the questions or add what.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Mr. Jelinčich. There's only one. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I think that, despite all of this, it is important to note that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u211	Mr. Jelinčič, I'm sorry. The mask.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u212	Yeah. I'm sorry. After all, I'd like to point out a few more things. The law is actually incomplete. I think the law is ready for the synergy of those professors who are no longer needed in scientific institutions, and it would be nice to have them installed somewhere to get a good salary. Also, the law says that one percent of GDP will be provided for this institution – please! The military has 1.5 percent of GDP, and some gentlemen will get one percent of GDP for synecuro here. That's terrible. In addition, if we look at it, this segment covers all possible gentlemen who are declared politically. In this world, the representatives of the various institutions that the state places there will be themselves. This is said to be a political issue, but of course it will be necessary to provide a whole range of staff. In addition to those in this world, at least 15 employees who will have to have at least 45th grade and so on and so on will be required. In addition, what competences do gentlemen take? Well, that's terrible. Then why do we need colleges at all if they're going to decide what they're going to do and so on? That way, we won't support it. We won't. And I think that a law like this, as presented by the Minister, is a terrible thing. Confused with common sense, plagued by basic postulates of scientific research. Because after all, if someone's such a good scientist that they can't without him at the institute, he could be 80 years old, and he'll stay in there. After all, our law stipulates that we cannot throw anyone on the road. That is, if he loses his job, then he'll get an even better job: synecure, where nothing will have to be done. And if we take it also that they will evaluate themselves: that is, I will tell Jani Ivánusha, you are the best, and Jani Ivánusha will say, Victory, you are the best. We'll both evaluate each other with a dime and collect the best we can get from the country. I think this is a strange variant of the Employment Institute, those people who are no longer able to participate in the research process and we do not agree in our Group. If we look at it, in Slovenia, 40 percent of Slovenian researchers are over 45 years old. It's no wonder our young people are running abroad! On the one hand, we're going to have old people inside, on the other hand, if we send an old man out, he's going to get a better job somewhere, where, of course, ex cathedra is going to decide whether it's good or not, which is not good. I mean, the law as such has creaked, terribly crumbling, with neither tail nor head. I do not think such a law should go into further discussion. However, if he goes to a further discussion, as it seems, the whole Parliament is more or less for this law, it means that they did not think much about it when they read it, but in this case a whole series of articles will have to be corrected, because this is only if I paraphrasm a little, in fact it is RTV in the field of research. [[…]] Thank you very much for such matters, we will not support this in any way, but if it goes forward, which it will probably go on, in which case we will be making amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much. And as a last resort, the government's representative gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I would just like to thank you for your practical unanimous support. However, we will meet with Mr Elinčič the Trinitarians, and we will read things together, and I am sure that, after what has been said and explained, he will be very supportive of the matter. So much better, because the Development Council, let's say, if I just comment, is set up and works the same way as the current Science and Technology Council, where, by the way, participants get more travel costs. All I'm adding to this thank you is the conclusion that researchers are on the road today. And they're going to go on the road that night, not because of the protests, the money, or whatever, but because it's the night of the explorers. The night of the explorers is one very important part that brings science closer to the youngest and impresses the youngest with science. And even the night of researchers is one such project that this law allows, supports and favors. For this reason, I am pleased that we will find a more appropriate solution in the future, a better compromise, and again, thank you for your support, thank you to all those who have participated in the creation of this law since 2015. I want you to quickly find a key to support your marriage in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m. and 20 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 18.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 5, 7, 8, 25, 23 and 24 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on State Border Control in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda – first consideration of the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 3. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science and Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Quiet, please! We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on space regulation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a space regulation law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Construction Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a construction law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 25th meeting of the assembly.
