ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Jožef Horvat, Carmen Furman, Nada Brinovšek, Mojca Žnidarič, Aljaž Kovačič, Nik Prebil, Eva Irgl, Tomaž Lisec, Tina Heferle until 13 p.m., Iva Dimic, Aleksander Reberšek, Matjaž Han, Bojan Podkrajšek, Violeta Tomić, Željko Cigler, Primož Siter, Matthew T. Vatovac from 13 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 22. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO THE WORK PROGRAMME AND THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE ENERGY AGENCY FOR THE YEAR 2022. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted to the National Assembly a work programme and a financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2022. In order to further explain the work programme and the financial plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Bugs of the Year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! Mr President, thank you for saying so! Global trends such as the flood of fossil fuels, the rise of renewable energy sources, democratisation, decentralisation and digitisation of energy, and the electrification of all energy consumption sectors also have an impact on investment in energy infrastructure. Much greater investment in the electricity network will be needed, and the transformation of the sector will only be effective if we ensure better use of the networks, increase and speed up the integration of dispersed energy sources into the system and enable the active participation of customers and adapt the network to the situation. It also poses important challenges to the Energy Agency, as regulation is a dynamic process that must respond adequately to change and direction of development and the digitisation of energy must take place in the interests of customers and the transition to a climate neutral society must be carried out at the lowest cost. In accordance with these principles, the Agency will develop a new methodology in 2022 to identify eligible costs that should further encourage operators to invest in cost-effective investments aimed at maximising the use of networks. Based on the results of the study and the extensive consultation process with all market stakeholders, we are planning to develop a new accounting methodology, which will be gradually introduced in the next regulatory periods. The aim is to ensure effective and non-discriminatory access to networks, as well as to provide accounting elements of the network that will tell customers how their actions can either increase or reduce future costs of using the network at different locations, including both the costs of connection and the costs of using the network. In 2022, we will also make two public calls to investors in production facilities on renewable energy sources, with the new legislation extending the support scheme to the production of other energy products such as renewable gases, liquid biofuels, hydrogen and to the production of heat from renewable energy sources for heating and cooling in the production process, the production of electricity in combination with nutrients and others. In the face of the challenges, we will also be responsible for all regulatory tasks in the field of electricity supply, natural gas and heat, monitoring and control of the energy market and ensuring its competitiveness, preventing market abuse, protecting consumers' rights and ensuring the legality of energy activities. In the area of efficient use, we will monitor and report on the achievement of mandatory energy savings and the fulfilment of mandatory regular energy checks in large companies. The process of creating new energy legislation is under way in Slovenia. The energy law will thus be transformed into six sectoral laws. Each of those laws shall confer additional powers on the Agency in addition to the existing tasks. The Agency's most extensive new competence under the newly adopted Electricity Supply Act is to confirm the electro-operator's development plans, which must ensure the cost-effective development of secure, reliable and flexible electricity transmission and distribution systems. Every two years, the Agency will have to prepare a report on the development of smart grids and provide operators with proposals for improvements that will have to be taken into account in the preparation of development plans. In the area of natural gas, the Agency will also carry out new tasks in addition to the existing ones with regard to the gas recovery plan into a system aimed at decarbonising the gas sector. In the context of reliable gas supply, it will set out a methodology for calculating gas refunds and prices in the event of an involuntary reduction or interruption of gas consumption. In view of the adoption of new laws this year, some new tasks are difficult to assess both in scope and with regard to the start-up of implementation, so in 2022 the Agency does not plan additional jobs in the staffing plan, but we will ensure the implementation of these tasks through internal reorganisation and the recruitment of currently open jobs. All tasks are also exposed to risks of their execution and the highest risk is the availability of planned personnel resources, not only due to the covida-19 epidemic, but also due to the increasing difficulties in the employment of new staff and the outflow of existing staff, which we detect due to the marked wage gap in the public sector to which the Agency belongs, and in the energy sector to which the companies regulated by the Agency belong. The regulation and supervision of the energy market is becoming increasingly demanding, as it has a decisive impact on energy transformation, the scope of the regulator's tasks is widening with any change in legislation, so it is also necessary to change or remove the agency from the public sector wage system, which can be ensured by the adoption of the Energy Policy Act, which is currently in the government process. It is even more prudent and feasible because the Agency is not a user of budgetary resources. The main source of revenue is the annual compensation of the transmission system operator of electricity and natural gas. The Agency carefully plans the operating costs. For 2022, the compensations of both operators are planned to the same extent as for this year and together with other available resources provide the necessary resources for the implementation of the work programme. In 2022 too, we will carry out the tasks outlined in a responsible and effective manner. We will act proactively while promoting the participation of all players in the energy market on the path to a climate neutral society. On the basis of the said National Assembly, I propose that the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2022 be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Agency's programme of work and financial plan for energy has been addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as its parent, which proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision on its consent to the Programme of Work and to the Agency's 2022 Financial Plan. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Your Honor! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at the 33rd session of the 27th session. Ten. 2021 was considered as the parent labour body by the Agency for Energy's work programme and financial plan for 2022, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Energy Agency. I'm the head of the mag agency. Duška Year stressed that the Agency will develop a new methodology in 2022 to determine the eligible costs for the next three years, which should further encourage electric operators to invest in cost-effective investments aimed at maximising the use of networks. In the course of the current year, the Agency shall conclude the first phase of the recast of the tariff system and, for the calculation of the network in 2022, shall, on the basis of the results of the study and the extensive consultative process with all market participants, plan to develop a new accounting methodology which will be gradually introduced in the following regulatory periods. It further pointed out that a major challenge in the event of the collapse of the fossil age and the closure of large production facilities would be the coverage of seasonal fluctuations in relation to volatile renewable energy sources and the forecast increased use of electricity and thus associated seasonal storage, where hydrogen technologies are increasingly at the forefront. The Agency will cooperate with the participation of international energy regulators in the development of a new European Union legislative package on natural gas, hydrogen and other renewable sources. In 2022 the Agency will also continue to implement the support scheme and implement two public calls from investors to production facilities at EEE, with the new legislation extending the support scheme also to the production of other energy products, such as renewable gases, liquid biofuels, hydrogen, EEE heat production for heating and cooling in the production process and electricity production in combination with storage units. Among other things, it has pointed out that the Agency in the 2022 Human Resources Plan does not plan additional jobs, but will ensure the implementation of the tasks through internal reorganisation and the recruitment of currently open jobs. In this regard, it stressed that the Agency’s greatest risk is the availability of planned personnel resources, not only due to the covida-19 epidemic and thus the increased absence of workers from work, but also due to the growing difficulty of hiring new staff and the outflow of existing staff. It assessed that the main reason for this is the marked difference between the public sector payments to which the Agency belongs and the energy sector to which the companies regulated by the Agency belong. It assessed that regulation of energy companies is becoming an increasingly professionally demanding work that has a decisive impact on energy transformation. Given that the scope of the regulator's tasks is expanding, it would be necessary to amend or remove the agency from the public sector wage system. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Bogomir Vnučec, said that the Commission supports and assesses that it is prepared in a very structured and transparent and understandable manner, presenting priorities, objectives, description of planned activities, performance indicators, risks to deviations, deadlines and the human resources resource for carrying out tasks. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on agreement on the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2022 of 28. 9. 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! Each year, the Energy Agency shall present its annual report and its work programme and the financial plan for the coming year to the competent national working body of the National Assembly in detail. The Agency is not only an important regulator in the electricity market. As such, it has many important tasks and responsibilities that can be divided into several sets. The key task is to regulate and control the correctness of the operator’s network charging in the supply of electricity. In this way, the Agency shall ensure that the network is not charged against eligible costs. In case of failure to perform this task, the end user could pay a higher price than he is paying now. Its tasks include monitoring and verification of operators, which means ensuring that operators invest sufficiently in the capacity of distribution networks and consequently allow for the quality and safety of electricity and natural gas distribution to end-users. On the basis of the adopted document presented by the Agency, we consider the report, the financial plan and the work programme to be exemplary and quality prepared by the Group of Social Democrats. We also believe that the key task or role of the Agency is to resolve disputes between users and operators, as the Agency can offer protection to the user, who is the most vulnerable party in the process. Social Democrats believe that the Agency must play a key role in protecting final consumers, since it will only protect the final consumer or ensure that the highest quality energy for its payment is delivered at the same time without any interference. The acceptance, warning and resolution of the problems faced by the most vulnerable individuals of our society is a daily journal of the Social Democrats, which we will not accept or allow to increase energy poverty. On the contrary, we need to reduce it because everyone in our society has the right to access an energy person who has the right to a decent and quality life. Energy poverty would not be long and wide, for unfortunately we have already found ourselves in it and have already said a great deal about it in this hall. The role and competences and agencies are still important, and above all it is important that they are carried out in a qualitative and effective manner. The Social Democrats' Group will support the 2022 Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the Agency's 2022 Financial Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2022, we will decide on Thursday, 25 November, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on excise duty within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly introduce to you the main solutions of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption and following a regular procedure. The main objective of the amendment is to fulfil the obligation to comply with the rules of the European Union, namely the EU Council Directive establishing a general excise duty regime and the EU Council Directive amending the Directive on the harmonisation of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. In the field of excise duty regime, the amendment proposes electronic monitoring of the movement of excise goods released for supply for commercial purposes from 13 February 2023. It is proposed to integrate excise and customs data and the European Union’s common rate of loss of excise goods resulting from the movement of excise goods due to their physical and chemical characteristics and external factors. With regard to the movement of excise goods under the suspension of excise duty within Slovenia, the amendment proposes to suspend the use of the paper excise document and to make mandatory use of the computerised system from 1 January 2023. In the field of excise treatment of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the amendment of the law proposes the issue of a certificate for an independent small producer of alcoholic beverages in Slovenia. A certificate showing the annual quantity of alcohol and alcoholic beverages produced will accompany the movement of alcohol and alcoholic beverages from recipients to another Member State of the Union in which the producer will be able to impose a lower excise duty if it is established for a small producer of alcohol or alcoholic beverages in the Member State of destination of the Union. For a small beer producer in Slovenia, it is proposed to determine the status on the basis of the quantities produced in the past and no longer in the current calendar year. The proposed amendment to the law will have no direct impact on the state budget and the proposed solutions have an indirect positive impact on the amount of excise duty collected, as they are an instrument for simplifying excise duty accounting procedures in some cases or an instrument to prevent excise duty avoidance in trade between Member States. In line with what the Government has said, honourable Members propose to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 39th meeting, on 3 November this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members' groups, up to Article 14. In its introduction, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions to the draft law, which is to harmonise national legislation with the rules of the European Union. It explained that national legislation is in line with the directive establishing the general excise duty regime and with the directive amending the Directive on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. In doing so, she stressed that the proposed solutions had an indirect positive impact on the level of the excise duty collected, since in some cases they were an instrument for simplifying the procedures for calculating excise duties or an instrument to prevent the avoidance of excise duties. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the comment set out in the introductory part of their written opinion concerning the approach to the transposition of the content of the Directive into the national legal order. It has pointed out that certain articles are literally transposing part of the Directive, which is not appropriate. As regards the comments made by the service to the individual article, it explained that the comments are mostly of a legislative nature, and some also refer to the clarity and determination of the legal standards. It explained that the amendments tabled are more appropriate to take into account the legislative technical comments contained in the opinion, but not all the comments contained in the chapeau and the comments relating to the need for greater clarity and clarity of the legal standards. Members and members of the Finance Committee did not discuss the content of the bill. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has adopted amendments to Article 14 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended proposal for a law is part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Michael Prevec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the novelty of the Law on excise duty, which is before us today, is to bring the law into line with European rules, in particular with the directive establishing a general excise duty regime and the Directive on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. The deadline for transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order expires at the end of this year. Let me briefly point out some aspects or solutions to the amendment of the law that we consider appropriate in the New Slovenia Group. The European Commission estimates that at European Union level, due to irregularities following imports into the Union of excise goods, between €20 million and €50 million, excise duties are collected annually. Since, in the case of post-importation into another Member, the data on the customs declaration and the electronic excise duty document are not currently linked, traceability and confirmation that excise goods have arrived at the destination after export have been ensured. The draft law therefore sets out a new obligation for the declarant to submit to the competent authorities in the importing country responsible for the release into free circulation of excise goods a excise duty number for the consignor and the recipient of excise goods in the Member State of destination if it is not a Member State of import of excise goods. The tax authority may require proof that imported excise goods are intended to be dispatched from the place of import in the territory of the Union to the recipient of excise goods in the territory of another Member State. The European Commission notes that the current procedures for monitoring the movement of excise goods with paid excise duty for commercial purposes are time-consuming and ineffective and therefore the procedures for the movement need to be computerised. By approving the application, the tax authority shall make it possible for persons with a status to use a computerised system to control the movement of excise goods. Procedures for a computerised system for the movement of excise goods for commercial purposes shall be defined. An electronic simplified excise duty document will replace the use of a paper document accompanying movement under the current regime. In the movement of excise goods under suspension of excise duty in Slovenia, a excise document accompanying the movement in paper form shall be used under the law. With 1. 9. On the initiative of the owners of excise licences moving excise products in the deferral regime in Slovenia, the use of a computerised system was enabled to move. However, a paper excise document may still be used in the movement. In particular, it is appropriate to welcome the upgrade of the excise duty reduction system for the small producer of alcoholic beverages. The Directive already provides that Member States of the European Union may, at the request of a small producer of alcoholic beverages, submit a certificate of its total annual production for the previous calendar year with a view to applying the benefits of reduced excise duty to small producers in force in the Member State of destination. The amendment proposes that a small producer of alcoholic beverages or alcohol may apply for an appropriate certificate from the tax authority. The proposal therefore brings some positive changes. In particular, the focus on process information, reducing barriers to integration and cross-border excise procedures and regulating the possibility of a small producer of alcoholic beverages to reduce excise duty in another country should be stressed. Since it is more meaningful to align the excise law with the secondary legislation of the European Union, we will support the amendment proposal in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! That's a good-bye! Today, for the second time, we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty, which has been tabled by the Government in the legislative procedure. With this novelty, the government wants to bring certain solutions into our legal order in order to modernise our excise legislation and bring it into line with the content of certain European rules, such as those of the European Union, whose deadline for transposition into our legal order expires on 31 December of this year. The solutions proposed in the context of this amendment regulate the processes for applying excise duties at special events. The changes envisaged provide for the mandatory use of a computerised system in the movement of excise goods, the introduction of electronic monitoring of the movement of excise goods with paid excise duty on supplies for commercial purposes and, last but not least, strengthening the link between customs and excise duties. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that all the envisaged solutions are going in the direction of increased transparency in the area of excise accounting. The fact is that the State must avoid potential exposure to losses related to the non-charge of excise duties on certain products. We therefore believe that any effort towards a more efficient review of the traffic of excise products is appropriate. We are also convinced that a European-level solution is needed to ensure the stability of such a large and comprehensive system as the excise accounting system. We therefore believe that the harmonisation of national excise legislation with European guidelines is the most effective way of regulating the excise policies of individual European countries. On the basis of the above-mentioned facts, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Your Honor! At the end of May this year, we adopted a new Law on excise duties in the National Assembly, and a few months later there is a new novel on the table prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The proposed amendment aims to bring the law into line with European rules, in particular the two 2020 directives we need to transpose into our legal system by the end of this year. The introduction of a better link between customs and excise procedures and the introduction of an electronic system that will monitor the movement of excise products transparently at EU level is an essential novelty. The Law of 2023 provides for the mandatory use of the computer support system in the movement of products in suspension of excise duty in Slovenia. As a result of the transposition of the second directive, the movement of alcohol intended for industry leaves the obligation to use the excise document as it has proved unnecessary, given that this type of alcohol is exempt from excise duty. Member States will further facilitate the operation of small producers of alcoholic beverages. These tax authorities will apply for a certificate of compliance with the criteria for a small producer. The certificate will accompany their consignments to the Member State of destination. The certificate allows the manufacturer to apply lower excise duty in accordance with legislation. The news introduced by the EU and transferred to our legal order is considered positive in the SAB. With the related systems, we will prevent the evasion of the excise duties that we are witnessing to today. Harmonised information systems in the Member States will also contribute to greater legal certainty, remove certain unnecessary administrative procedures, which means lowering costs for all economic operators. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the financial consequences of this law. According to the government, a total of EUR 1.37 million will be spent to upgrade the current information system. In view of the uncontrolled consumption of this government and the many affairs that raise suspicion that the money of citizens and citizens is not being treated economically and transparently, the question is entirely on the ground whether the government has already chosen the provider to upgrade this system and whether the costs that Slovenia will pay to the selected entrepreneur can be lower. Unfortunately, we cannot support this law, nor will we oppose it, in the face of completely dispersed public finances and uncertain future in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The revised excise legislation applicable in Slovenia since August 2016 is in line with European Union legislation, notably the directive governing the general regime for excise products with particular emphasis on the production, storage and movement of excise goods between Member States. The basic objective of the directive is to enable the free movement of goods while ensuring that Member States finally collect the relevant excise duty debt as an important structural element of their budgetary revenues. The Directive was amended in 2019. In the same year, the Directive on the harmonisation of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages was also amended and our national legislation should be adapted by the end of this year. The European Commission estimates that at Union level, due to irregularities in the import of excise products into the Union, between €20 million and €50 million of excise duties per year. The proposed amendments to the law propose, inter alia, the integration of customs and excise procedures between Member States. The proposal for a novelty introduces electronic monitoring of the movement of excise goods with paid excise duty on supplies for commercial purposes. In this regard, the new status of excise liability participating in this movement shall be laid down. An electronic simplified excise duty document will replace the use of a paper document which, under the current regime, monitors the movement of excise goods. In the area of loss of excise goods which may arise in the movement between Member States, the proposal for a law recognises the partial loss of excise goods resulting from their nature. The mandatory use of the computerised system in the movement of excise products in the suspension of excise duty in Slovenia is also determined, so the use of the paper excise document will be phased out until 12 February 2023. Excise is an extremely important income in the Slovenian state budget. In 2019, €1 billion and €543 million were collected, representing 15.6% of the total budget revenue. In 2020, there were €1 billion and €314 million, which was 14.5% of total revenue. However, in the field of excise treatment of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the Directive provides that Member States may, at the request of a small producer of alcoholic beverages, submit a certificate of its total annual production for the previous calendar year, which may accompany a consignment of alcoholic beverages. Thus, the manufacturer may impose reduced excise duty benefits on the small producer in force in the Member State of destination. In the structure of excise duties in the Slovenian budget, excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages represent a far smaller proportion and around 8 %, excise duty on tobacco products accounts for about 30%, and excise duty on mineral oils, gas and electricity represents a good 60%. The proposed legislative changes will indirectly have a positive impact on the amount of excise duty collected, as they are an instrument for simplifying excise duty accounting procedures or an instrument to prevent excise duty avoidance in trade between Member States of the European Union. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Good day to all present, especially to the President and representatives of the Government! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties. In the Slovenian National Party, we are always attentive and critical of the things that come to us from Brussels. We're used to rarely getting good for our people from there. This time, in our view, these two directives of the European Union are well aligned with the Law on excise duty within our common European market. Excess is an extremely important tax segment because it represents more than a billion revenue per year in the state budget, representing more than 2% of the total gross social product. That is also why this subject is important. A single excise reference mark will enable compliance and facilitate the movement of excise products, which will also have a beneficial impact on our producers in the field of alcoholic beverages. Slovenians have not only excellent wine, but also exceptional producers of spirits and beer, especially smaller and more exclusive ones. I wish this tax harmonisation would also encourage the export of our unique brands of alcoholic beverages and contribute to their international visibility. We already have almost 100 small breweries in Slovenia, which we believe should be even more encouraged by the country. Our largest brewery, Lasko Union, is already in the hands of foreigners, so we need to pay even more attention to this particular trade. Small beer producers pay 50% less excise duties, but we believe that this percentage should be increased in the future for further incentives. Sometimes small brewers produce so many hectolitres of beer that they no longer belong to small breweries. In Article 30 of this amendment, we will deal well with this issue so that the maximum amount of 20 000 hectolitres will apply to the previous year and not to the current year. We will also make good use of this article to remedy some of the bureaucratic obstacles faced by small Slovenian brewers. As for brewers, the novelty of the law in the following article also deals well with the problem faced by small Slovenian producers. These, too, should be encouraged more in the future so that their exclusive brands can reach wider markets and help the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The law before us today does not bring about systemic changes, but it means transposition and harmonisation with the two EU directives whose transposition deadline is the end of 2021. Key amendments to the Excise Act relate to the reduction of administrative costs for Member States and economic operators in the way that the current paper procedures are automated by establishing the mandatory use of the computerised system in the movement of excise procedures. A group of rules shall be defined and excise and customs procedures coordinated. They shall be limited to fraud by more effective monitoring of the movement of excise products for automation and cross-checking of data between excise and customs procedures, where the loss of excise goods, deficits or surpluses of quantity, refusal of consignment, irregularities in the control or destruction of the consignment is concerned. The movement of denatured alcohol is regulated and allows a small producer of alcoholic beverages to benefit from reduced excise duty on a small producer of alcoholic beverages in force in the Member State of destination. A small producer of alcoholic beverages or alcohol may request a certificate from the tax authority. In order to simplify procedures and new instruments to prevent the avoidance of excise duty payments, a positive impact on government budget revenues is expected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the Proposal for a Law on excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! With all the amendments to the tax laws by which this government and its coalition are under cover of tax exemptions, it is almost difficult to believe that the government has proposed amendments to the tax law that do not bring new exemptions and do not reduce the revenue of the state budget. Unfortunately, we are living in a time when the government's proposal for a law is a real rarity and we had to make a thorough examination of whether there are any instigators in this proposal as well. With regard to the Law on excise duties, the Government has obviously only decided to transpose the amended European Directive, which requires the harmonisation of information systems used at Union and Member State level. Again, the importance of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, whose opinion made it possible to draw up the relevant amendments and thus eliminate the Government's superficiality in drafting the text of the legislative proposal. Thus, the proposal does not entail changes in the tax rates for consumers nor does it change the existing tax obligations of excise persons. It only introduces legal bases that will allow for a more effective exchange of information between countries. This will make it easier for those in different countries who purchase and sell excise goods by introducing specific new tax liability statuses of certified consignors or recipients of excise goods, which will be linked to tax information systems and will enter data themselves, thus facilitating procedures for the calculation and assessment of taxes, as well as reducing administrative procedures. The draft law also transposes the other provisions of the amended European Directive relating to electronic excise duties. The upgrading of information systems is expected to take place on the part of the financial administration and, according to the proposals, this will not lead to new costs on the part of taxpayers. A uniform, simplified and more computerised tax system in the field of excise duties is thus considered by the Government to improve or increase the budgetary inflow of excise duties. We will therefore not oppose the adoption of this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Thursday, 25 November 2021 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item – Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the word to a representative of the government, Mag. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, which the Government, together with the final report of the Court of Auditors, submitted to the National Assembly for adoption. The final account shall include a definition of macroeconomic baselines, a report on the realisation of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, on the budgetary deficit and on the debt of the budget, and at the end of the explanation of the major deviations between the revenue and expenditure received and realised, on the deficit and on the debt. In addition to explaining the general and specific part of the proposal for a final account, the explanation of the implementation of the development programme plan, the balance sheet data and the report on the management of the single account’s assets and the specific table annex shall include. The explanations are given by comparison to the 2020 budget rebalancing, which is the last budget adopted for 2020. Let me present some key information contained in the proposal for a final account. The macroeconomic environment was better than expected in 2020 compared to the forecast of economic trends for this year. In the state budget, revenue was thus realised at EUR 9 billion, representing 98.8% of the planned revenue. On the expenditure side, a good EUR 12.5 billion of expenditure was realised and 93.8% were planned. The deficit amounted to EUR 3.5 billion or 83% of the planned. In 2020, the state budget showed a deficit of 7.5% of gross domestic product. Debt of the state budget shall be at 31. 12. 2020 amounted to EUR 34.3 billion and 74.1% of gross domestic product. From 1 January 2020 to the end of the year, the debt of the state budget increased by EUR 5.8 billion. In 2020, EUR 725 million of revenue from the European Union and other countries, EUR 526 million for the payment of the Republic of Slovenia’s contribution to the European Union budget and EUR 199 million for the net budget surplus was realised in the national budget compared to the European Union budget. The action to mitigate the epidemic and to remedy the effects of the covida-19 epidemic had significant consequences on the higher expenditure of the state budget. As a result, anti-crisis measures in the state budget required expenditure-side funding which could not be planned when preparing the country's budget. On the basis of the legislation adopted, the country was able to further commit itself in 2020 to financing the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic for this purpose for EUR 2 billion 167 million. Measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic were allocated €2 billion of expenditure from the country's budget. The financial claims and investments accounted for a poor EUR 460 million in revenue and EUR 105.6 million in expenditure and thus a surplus of EUR 354 million. The realisation of the financing account shows EUR 7.7 billion in debt benefits and EUR 2 billion 14 million in debt repayment expenditure, EUR 2.6 billion in account growth and a net debt of EUR 5.8 billion. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia revised the proposal for a state budget closure account and issued a positive opinion for the general part of the accounts. On the basis of this, honourable Members, I propose that you accept the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as the parent labour force. I give the floor to President Igor Peck to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! At its 22nd regular meeting, on 28 October 2021, the Commission considered as its parent working body the proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, which was forwarded by the Government under Article 97, paragraph 5, of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly for adoption. In its introduction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance drew attention to the difficult circumstances related to the covida-19 epidemic in which the 2020 budget was implemented. The epidemic has affected both the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget. It also explained that EUR 2.3 billion had been allocated to anti-Korona measures, with a budget deficit of EUR 3.5 billion and a government budget debt of 31. 12. 2020 amounted to EUR 34.3 billion. The Secretary of State also stressed that the Court of Auditors had issued a positive opinion on the general part of the proposal for a final account. The representative of the Court of Auditors stated that the Court of Auditors revised the proposal for a final account and the correct implementation of the budget for 2020 and gave a positive opinion on the general part of the proposal for a final account and the opinion subject to the implementation of the budget for 2020. It also presented in more detail the individual irregularities detected. In the debate, the members and members of the Commission focused mainly on the resources targeted at tackling the epidemic in 2020. They drew attention to the problem of recording and transparency in the use of these funds and the allocation of funds between individual ministries. Part of the debate also addressed the effectiveness of spending resources intended to supplement work in risky situations. Members and members were also interested in subsidies to airlines and the use of tourist vouchers in 2020. The debate drew attention to a positive opinion on the general part of the proposal for a final account and the position expressed that the evaluation of the implementation of the budget could also be regarded as positive. In terms of transparency, however, the Government has reported to Members and Members of the National Assembly in accordance with the law, which have also dealt with these reports. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the issues raised in the debate, in particular on the transparency of the proposal for a final account in terms of the use of funds for the covida-19 epidemic, the additional tasks of certain ministries related to measures to mitigate the epidemic, and the normative framework for the payment of the allowance for work in risky situations. Following the consideration of the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, the Commission adopted the following conclusion: The Public Finance Supervisory Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, following its consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt a proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! We have before us the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, which shows the projected and realised revenue and other revenue as well as expenditure and other expenditure of the country for the previous year. We could say that behind us is an extremely difficult year, which has left its mark both on the economy and on the remaining segments of our society because of the epidemic. Last year, we were forced to temporarily significantly reduce economic growth, which, according to the first estimates, favoured the fall of gross domestic product, which in 2020 fell by 2.5% in real terms compared to the previous year and by 4.3 in nominal terms. In 2020, €9 billion of 77 million on the one hand and €12 billion of €564 million on the other side of the balance sheet were realised under the national budget. Based on data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, it can be found that the state budget has shown a deficit of 7.5% of GDP in the past year, amounting to approximately EUR 3 billion 486 million. The budget deficit reached is thus 715.6 million euro lower than planned in the adoption of the budget. We are aware that Slovenia has faced many challenges during the epidemic, which are reflected in one way or another in the document that we have before us today. Nevertheless, we are confident that there are still some room for optimization on certain items. In 2020, we achieved the 77% realisation of the planned revenue from the European Union budget. With the adoption of the budget, around EUR 940 million was planned from this heading, including the European Union funds received for the implementation of the common agricultural and fisheries policy, the EU Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund, the funds received for the implementation of the EU centralised and other programmes, the funds received from the European Union budget and the funds received from other European institutions and other countries. We are pleased with the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Together with the view to the final budget account for the previous year, we welcome the arrival of a new budget package, which, according to our assessment, reflects the realization that the economy is a generator of prosperity, development and social security in society and that the large-scale budget allocations to investments will soon be realized in the development of all social sub-systems. On the basis of the findings of the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, we have become acquainted with the content of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. In the SAB, we will not oppose the final accounts of the state budget for 2020. We agree that there is a difficult time behind us. It is also difficult for us in 2020. We didn't know what was coming, we didn't know how things were going to develop. However, it must be made clear that the 2020 budget balance has already been adopted by this coalition, all the plans, all the figures in this 2020 budget balance are yours. Revenues were realised at 9 billion 77 million. This is less than you planned, and this is less than the transitional year 2019, which is somehow logical, because our country was affected by the crisis and the result of this crisis was also a fall in GDP and thus in revenue. You've implemented expenditure of 12.6 billion. And that's 8% less than you planned. The deficit was €3.5 billion at the end of 2020. Of this, only 2.2 billion for saving people's lives and health because of covido, as you often say, and 1.3 billion for other things. The first thing that bothers us in the Sab party is that the funds that have been earmarked to save people's lives and health, I'm talking about these 2.2 billion, are not transparent. They are not shown in such a way that you can quickly identify what this money was intended for during the 2020 epidemic. Of course, we have proposed that these funds should be presented in one place, in order to create a budget fund, which would then also be presented in the final account and in all reports, a much more transparent way of showing public spending. Of course, I'm going to get caught up in European funds as well. While we were still in the government, you were here on the right hand side full of mouths, how we do not know how we do not realize how bad we are when we draw on European funds. You planned spending, and it has to be said that this rebalancing was adopted in the spring or more as early as the summer, says somewhere in the middle of the financial year, you planned a realisation of EUR 941 million. You've realised a quarter less, a little more than €720 million. You're so good at drawing on European funds. Finally, in 2020 alone, you increased your debt by almost €6 billion and at the end of 2020 it was already more than €34 billion. What would we do or do differently in that year 2020? In any case, budgets would be adopted in the National Assembly. You have only determined the maximum possible expenditure by decrees, and then you voluntarily, as you thought it was best, you shared the money without the budget rebalancing. We would certainly have done it differently. I have already said that the use of money intended to solve the underlying crisis, if I may so call it, would also be shown in one place and not scattered throughout the budget. So in fact, we are rarely the ones who know these numbers to sum up and see how much money has been spent to solve the crisis. Another time. All measures to contain the epidemic would be taken to comply with the Constitution. Yours are generally accepted in a way that is contrary to the Constitution. This was also found by the Constitutional Court. And of course that's wrong. The supplements for working in these difficult situations would be distributed evenly among all employees because the life of the doctor and the life of the server working in the department working with the patient is the same. No, you gave the doctors 8,000 and more euros a month and the servers 50 or less euros a month. The lives of all are of equal value and these supplements need to be unified. And now that, I hope, the crisis is over, you have also found out and you are proposing that these supplements be paid in a uniform manner, at the same level. Second thing, you gave the pensioners three crisis supplements. Nice and good. The problem arises when a pensioner with 714 euros gets 390 euros at the time and a pensioner with 715 euros gets nothing. And that's unfair, that's unfair. We would have divided these supplements more fairly. Not to mention that you gave the students 300 euros and those of your supporters 700 euros a month or as much as 6,000 euros at the time of the epidemic. These are the differences they wouldn't have done to me. Bone, those first tourists, would also be dedicated in 2020 for other purposes: culture, sport, hospitality. These last ones, we even propose to add to the fact that people can also use them to pay for electricity, heating and energy, if I simplify, because of the increasing prices and therefore the increasing cost of living. Now, in the Beijings, which were quite a few, we're going to deal with the number 10 for a little while now, we wouldn't be putting together the set-ups that you guys were doing. I'll just count three. You wanted to extend your life to the University of Jambrek by passing the rules in force by law. It's the first set-up. You wanted to change the law on higher education with a pecape. In the end, you wanted to, or eventually you abolished, the Single Price Act of the Book. And the third thing is, very quickly you wanted to do the privatization of health care in one segment. Fortunately, this is the last amendment that we have tabled in our parliamentary group – this is the so-called cascade system for reducing waiting lines: first the public, then the concessionaires and finally the private – we have managed to stop these things. But in this way, the difficult times that have certainly affected our country in 2020 are not being saved. All of this would have been different for me, and something else that I have not said now that the situation in Slovenia today would have been much better, absolutely different. However, since the final account is actually an executed fact that just shows how the money was spent, once again I say that we will not oppose the final account in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The final budget account shall be the act of the State in which the projected and realised revenue and other revenue, expenditure and other expenditure of the country for the previous year are displayed. In 2020, the budget was implemented in extremely difficult, exceptional circumstances in dealing with the epidemic and mitigating its consequences. In this regard, and taking into account the continuing, even very aggressive, criticism of the irrational use of budgetary resources should be underlined by the assessment of the Fiscal Council on the final accounts of the budget, the assessment of the compliance of the Fiscal Council. Fiscal rules were largely respected in 2020. The maximum allowable amount of expenditure rule has been respected. The minimum allowed structural balance was achieved taking into account the tolerance allowed. The increase in sector expenditure of a state without a single impact under the spending rule was lower than allowed. The average deviation of the structural balance and structural effort was exceeded. The debt of the State sector has increased in contravention of the rules, taking into account the existence of a period of exceptional circumstances. This is an assessment of the compliance of the Fiscal Council, far from any apocalypticity that wishes to take effect in any way. The final accounts for 2020 show some inconsistencies between the planned and implemented revenue and expenditure items. The revenue side was planned at 9 billion and 189 million euros with the budget rebalancing and realised at 9 billion and 77 million euros, which is 111 million and 560 thousand euros less. However, in the revenue structure, tax, non-taxable capital and transfer revenues are achieved at the planned levels. The revenue side deviates negatively from the funds received from the European Union, estimated at EUR 941 million and EUR 374,000, and realised at EUR 724 million and EUR 818 thousand. Implementation was therefore 77% and the difference was 216 million and 556 thousand euros. For example, €247 million and €297 000 were planned from the European Regional Development Fund and €210 million and €452 000 were realised, which is less than €37 million. In this case, a percentage of implementation is achieved 85.10. It is much more critical in the European Social Fund or in the planned revenue from the European Social Fund, where €221 million and €662,000 were planned and only €106 million and €700 000 were realised, which is slightly less than €115 million. Only 48.14 is achieved in the European Social Fund. The projected budget expenditure for 2020 was set at €13 billion and €391 million, with €12 billion and €564 million, which is less than planned for 827 million. The current expenditure, which is lower by €1 billion and €22 million, and investment expenditure by a little less than €63 million, is clearly diverged here. In the structure of current expenditure, where there is a billion less planned expenditure, the general budget provision, which was not realised at the estimated level of expenditure, is clearly excluded. Members of the Desus Group also point out the co-financing of the pension fund from the state budget for 2020. It was planned at the cost of billions and 155 million euros and realised at the cost of billions and 131 million euros. This means that the planning of the expenditure to co-finance the pension fund despite the extreme complexity of the complicated business and financial year was very precise. Ladies and gentlemen! The entire budget year 2020 has also been marked by allegations of non-transparent use of state budget resources. The Court of Auditors also gave its opinion on this in its audit report. The Supreme State Audit Authority delivered a positive opinion on the proposal for the general part of the budget accounts for 2020 because the errors found in the presentation of the revenue and expenditure were not significant. Of course, we are talking about the balance of revenue and expenditure, we are talking about the accounts of financial claims and investments, and we are talking about the financing account, the three extremely important documents of the general part of the budget on which the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion. This is accepted in Slovenia as something completely marginal and irrelevant. On the basis of the findings on the correctness of the implementation of the State budget for 2020 in the work relating to government budgetary users, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation. There are 14 ministries in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Court of Auditors, there are only three of them who are required to submit response reports because they have failed to remedy the irregularities identified during the audit. These three ministries are the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Culture. This is said to be true, only 3 of the 14 ministries failed to remedy the irregularities identified during the audit. Only 3 out of 14. It is therefore not too much to point out that in this case the reality of the state audit observations has shed light on the yellowness of the opposition and media hallucinations of non-transparentness. The sublimation of all prudence on non-transparency has proved to be a difficult beating of empty straw, all the way through the Slovenian increasingly established, firmly established principle: empty pots stumble and empty heads bee. The final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 is a book enforcement fact. Members of the Desus Group will therefore vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Once again a nice greeting to all present. We have before us the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. The good 9 billion revenues in the state budget amounted to 98.8% of the implementation planned for 2020. Also, 93% of implementation, as regards expenditure in the state budget, was acceptable. A weak €13.4 billion of expenditure from the state budget was expected, and in the end, approximately € 12.5 billion was spent from the state budget. This also means that the government deficit was 715 million lower than expected. We must understand that, even at this time, the period for easing and eliminating the effects of the covida-19 epidemic has been set aside for more than €2 billion. We have always advocated an economically strong and independent Slovenia in the Slovenian National Party, so we are also paying attention to the fluctuation of our country's gross social product. Gross domestic product fell by 5,5 % in 2020 and nominally by 4.3 %. This information is not worrying or surprising in view of the situation in the same time period elsewhere in the world. The Slovenian economy is extremely dependent on European and global financial cycles, as we are completely back in the European and global economies. This will have to be given greater importance in the future, as economic independence is at least to a certain extent very important in the independence of the entire nation. Most countries around the world have experienced a decline in gross social product during this period. More severe impacts on GDP from Slovenia have been experienced in Europe by many countries, such as Germany, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Spain, Austria, Belgium, Iceland, Portugal and could still be listed. Better GDP than Slovenia was recorded in Europe by Bulgaria, Ukraine, the Netherlands, Latvia, Albania, Russia, Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Denmark and other countries. There has also been a global decline in economic activity, with the exception of some countries that have recorded exceptional growth, such as Monaco and Ireland. So I can go back to Slovenia. In the SNS, we are pleased that despite the crisis in Slovenia, nominal export growth was 7.9% higher than planned, which is very important for our small Slovenian economy. The value added tax represents the largest revenue in the state budget for us since it accounts for almost 40% of the total revenue in the state budget in 2020. 3 billion and 465 million euros were planned and the country realised 3 billion and 528 million euros from the same title, which is a good 100 million more than anticipated. Value added tax is an excellent mechanism, as, in addition to a just generation of revenue for the state budget, it is also one of the more difficult tax evasions. It is also extremely compatible in international business. It must, of course, beware that we do not go too far into the economy of the country, which is true art and eternal debate in the economic policies of the country. In the SNS, we will advocate an effective tax policy, which will result in justice within the nation on the one hand and promote a strong export-oriented economy on the other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. The Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an act of the State in which, in accordance with Article 96 of the Public Finance Act, the projected and realised revenue and other revenue and expenditure and other expenditure of the State for the previous year are shown. In the framework of the income and expenditure balance, revenue was projected at EUR 9.2 billion in the adopted budget, expenditure at EUR 13.4 billion, and a projected deficit of EUR 4.2 billion. The actual results of the state budget in terms of deficit were better than planned, with 9.77 billion revenues, 12.6 billion expenditure and deficits of 3.4 or almost 3.5 billion euros in 2020, accounting for 83% of the planned and 715 million deficits. Slovenia's GDP declined nominally by 4.3 percentage points in 2020. The fact in the review of the final accounts for 2020, however, is that the deficits and increased expenditure were the most affected by the severe reduction in the revenue of the state budget by the covida-19 disease epidemic, as we have devoted as much as €2.3 billion to alleviating and eliminating its effects in various anti-korona packages, which has also severely limited the decline in GDP for citizens and citizens, while allowing companies, among other things, faster economic recovery and better business in 2021, which is finally reflected in this year's economic growth figures, which will be around 6.4%, and of course also low unemployment. Right now, we've got a few more than 66,000 unemployed people. In 2020, a net budget surplus of €199 million was realised in the ratio of the state budget to the European Union budget. The financing account shows the realisation of EUR 7.8 billion in debt benefits, with € 2 billion in debt repayment and €5.8 billion in net debt. It should be mentioned, however, that we have earmarked EUR 771 million for the payment of interest on past borrowing. However, it is positive that the amount of interest has decreased significantly over the last period. In 2020, the situation in the accounts increased by €2.6 billion. Part of the final account of the Republic of Slovenia also presents 27 annual reports of the funds and agencies of which the Republic of Slovenia is the founder, and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, both in the compulsory part of the insurance. The accompanying material shows that institutional units created around €130 million of deficits in 2020. It should also be noted that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia revised the proposal for the final accounts of the State budget for 2020 and issued a positive opinion on the general part of the final accounts. However, auditors of the Court of Auditors have issued an opinion with reservations on the implementation of the 2020 State budget alone, which, given the exceptional circumstances in 2020, is still a good result, in particular from the view that various indications of the non-transparent use of public funds have been made repeatedly in this National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a final account for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the final account, we find that the budget adopted is consistent, that is, the planned revenue and expenditure with its actual expenditure. We also note how the planned appropriations have been spent in the past period and for what purposes. This is a key document on the basis of which the efficiency and efficiency of the use of state budget funds is assessed. We can see from the document that, in order to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, we have spent 2.1 billion euros. A €2.6 billion was planned in the 2020 budget balance, which we discussed in September for the last 3 months of the year, six months after we started dealing with the epidemic. It is not too much to say in the introduction that spending resources under individual budget lines, particularly in terms of spending resources to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, is very difficult to identify and requires quite a bit of effort. Performance and effectiveness issues are crucial when we evaluate the proposal for a final account. With regard to the efficiency of spending, which has been accompanied by unforeseen circumstances, which needs to be recognised, we can reply from the two figures I mentioned at the introduction. There is something else when the proposal for a final budget account is assessed in terms of efficiency. Some comparative data should be provided on this site. At the end of 2019, we had a surplus of 0.4% of GDP, while one year later the deficit was minus 8.4% of GDP. After the amount of funds we have earmarked for intervention measures, we have been among those Member States of the European Union that have committed the most. It will not be too much to mention a few more facts, namely that the resources we have spent have not been the most targeted either for the economy or for the people most in need and would have been the most profitable in dealing with the epidemic. The accompanying supplements were shared unfairly and disproportionately. However, most of the aid granted ended up in the form of savings, as demonstrated by the growth of deposits in banks. The Fiscal Council had already called for measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic to be transparent, temporary and genuinely focused on mitigating the immediate consequences of the crisis, but it was then, as in 2021, that in the budgets just adopted, we were experiencing an unreasonable increase in expenditure which did not have much in common with the epidemic. For example, in December 2020, the Fiscal Council issued a recommendation not to adopt measures in anti-Korona legislation that undermine the structural situation of public finances. At that time, for example, the coalition legislated the possibility of terminating the employment contract of persons who had fulfilled the condition of obtaining the right to an old-age pension. The definition of only technical implementation of the budget in these times also requires its substantive assessment. Just as we cannot conclude that the government is fighting the epidemic with all its power, while at the same time we are at the top of the world by the number of patients. Your Honor! In the LMŠ Group, we cannot help but say that the implementation of the budget in 2020 was successful and effective, because the solutions that the coalition has put in place with it have not been agreed on either then or we do not agree today when we look back. In 2020, the budget reflected the measures taken by coalition partners with satellites by anti-Korona legislation, which, in our opinion, was reckless, non-transparent, where we wondered why the government would rather not just deal with the epidemic, but also satisfy the partial wishes of its supporters. Given that our money has been shared, citizens and citizens have the right to know what, and this must be clearly and transparently reflected in the proposal for a final account. This is very difficult from the proposal we are considering today. The 2020 budget as a whole will have major implications for our public finances, both in terms of stability and sustainability in the future. We do not consider it to be successful and effective. Therefore, we will not support the proposal of the final account in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojna Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At this meeting, we have repeatedly stressed how very government implementation differs from the budgetary frameworks set out in the National Assembly. The proposal for a final account proves that the Government has not lost control only in recent months, but this is its way of working where the promises and acts of the National Assembly are one and the reality and willful decisions of the Government are another. Of course, we cannot simply compare 2020 with past years. For it is a year fully marked by two major disasters. The first is the covida-19 pandemic, and the second is Janez Janša. They both stood up and showed up at the same time. The judgment on which of them caused more damage in Slovenia is not simple. In view of the results that this proposal also hides, this infamous victory smiles at the government. The final accounts for the previous year reveal large deviations from the budgetary plans. Revenues are lower than planned by 111 million and expenditure on plans is behind 827 million. It is a poor comfort that 3.5 billion deficits are still 715 million behind schedule as it still amounts to 7.5 gross domestic product. The realisation of European funds is also lagging behind plans for 216 million or almost a quarter. The debt of the state budget increased by EUR 5.8 billion last year and rose by 10 percentage points or 74% of gross domestic product. Your Honor! All of this happened when the government suspended the implementation of the budget in March and provided money to finance the epidemic with redeployments. Such derogations have arisen despite the adoption of the budget balance at the end of September last year, on a proposal from the Government. Nevertheless, the government has managed to miss the revised budgetary plans on all key budget lines. Also on the item specifically dedicated to the financing of the costs of the epidemic, the realization is lower by EUR 500 million than envisaged. While the government has been boasting since the launch of its mandate with exceptional budgetary expenditure, the amount of money spent is expected by the rulings to demonstrate in themselves the efficiency of spending and the actual results show that the government does not have proper control over public spending. Especially if we are aware of the fact that this year's spending will be more than a billion and a half more than allowed. As it turns out, even last year’s money saved by the government has already been spent on excess spending. In all of this, it does not propose a rebalancing for this year, but attempts through the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the Budget Decisions to ensure the possibility of voluntarily and non-transparently redistributing state money. The picture of public finances is only getting worse this year. However, last year's closing account shows us that even last year's government has not done its job well. In such circumstances, it is not possible to simply count the figures by item and determine how much has been used. These large derogations on deck items are only a reflection of poor government planning, which is not limited to last year. If last year the government has spent only 200 million on poorly designed employee allowances, this sum is approaching billions this year. We cannot conclude on the final budget account without putting it in the context of a public financial situation which is certainly not good. If the purpose of the final account was to sum up the sum of individual items and inform the National Assembly, such a final account could even be supported, but the final account is prepared and accepted precisely to assess the efficiency of government management with public money, to verify the deviations from and explain the reasons for the budgetary plans. It is not enough that the Government of Derogations repeatedly clarifies with only one argument and only one argument – the epidemic. If the government has consistently argued that because of exceptional circumstances it cannot respect the laws, acts of the National Assembly and other regulations and judgments, then it is not up to the task for which it exists, it is responsible and legal governance with the State. As a result, not because we doubt the numbers recorded, but because we believe them, we do not wish to legitimize such government planning with any support. We will therefore oppose the proposal for a final budget account for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In view of the 2020 budget adopted, 99% of the planned revenue and 94% of the planned expenditure were realised. Nevertheless, the government has raised €3.5 billion minus, and this is the largest budget deficit in the country's history. The largest part of this deficit of €2.4 billion went to the expense of intervention measures. However, intervention measures are rightly subject to criticism because it is questionable how economic, meaningful and effective they were. This is illustrated by the following comparative analyses in the European Union. In Slovenia, the growth of the budget deficit was among the highest in the European Union in 2020. The country's balance from the surplus of 0.4% of GDP in 2019 was exceeded to a huge deficit minus 8.4% of GDP in 2020. This is the fourth biggest deterioration between Member States. The intervention measures represented as much as 6% of GDP, which is once again the fourth largest of 22 countries. In addition, last year's gross public debt increased by 15 percentage points, the ninth highest increase among EU Member States, but although Slovenia was among recorders in budget expenditure, the decline in GDP in Slovenia was reduced only on average. Slovenia was 10th among the 22 countries after the fall of GDP, according to the fourth, after spending, 10th after it was effective. In addition, the government unwarrantedly boasts that it has saved 100,000 jobs through intervention measures, but at the end of 2020, 87 000 registered unemployed people were registered in Slovenia, 16% more than a year earlier and according to the Bank of Slovenia, government measures have managed to maintain only 16 000 jobs, and certainly not 300 000, as the government has tried to show itself. The reduction in unemployment in 2021, by September 2021, has dropped to 66 000, not as a result of measures or the smart policy of this government, but as a logical consequence of the re-opening of the quarantine economy. The second thing we want to point out in Levica is that the distribution of funds that you distributed during the wake of the crisis was unfair and ineffective. At the outset, I said that 2.4 billion euros were paid out of the budget for the fight against cod crisis in 2020. Almost half of this was subsidised to private companies and these subsidies were paid unconditionally. As we have seen, many companies have only collected subsidies for this and jobs have not been maintained. In the most extreme cases, Safilo and Adient even after receiving state subsidies closed production in Slovenia, moved it to foreign countries and left it to hundreds of unemployed. The second thing to be pointed out here is that despite the Government's spending 2.4 billion, as it says, to save people and economies, all the key indicators of poverty have increased this year. In 2020, 254,000 people lived below the poverty risk threshold, 11,000 more than a year earlier. In 2020, 97 000 pensioners lived below the poverty risk threshold, 7 000 more than a year earlier, which is not surprising because the public funds that went directly to those 2.4 billion were only 163 million. And the last thing to be pointed out and not surprised is that during the crisis, unemployment increased by 16%, when the number of unemployed jumped by 11,000, and when the country paid 2.4 billion aid. On the other hand, household savings in Slovenian banks have increased from 22 billion to 24 billion. Thus, bank savings increased by EUR 2 billion during this crisis, almost as much as the aid countries in 2020. That means next. That the government paid for these aids in a way that mainly poured into the pockets of the wealthy into the pockets of those households that were capable of saving. Poorer households, as we know, spend more or less what they earn or receive. Here, however, the savings of Slovenian households in banks have risen record time by €2 billion in one year. This should not have come as a surprise. If we just look at how public sector allowances were paid, we will see that in 2020 EUR 204 million had already been earmarked for this purpose, and by the end of September this year more than 900 million euros, with the amount of the allowance linked to the hourly item not being limited up. And we've seen the consequences. While caregivers and caregivers in nursing homes, who were in fact in the first ranks and faced the infected each day, may have received a pair of 100 euros each, while surgeons, who on many occasions even cancelled operations or worked in private clinics, paid such allowances that they had the most engaged in collecting up to 70,000 euros in one year. On the other hand, this is reflected in a huge budget deficit and in a crazy increase in the savings of this part of the population in Slovenian banks. As we know, about 10% of households own most deposits in Slovenian banks. Under the line. This is the biggest budget deficit in the history of 2020. The sense of the measures that the government has spent this money is questionable. In the coming years, it will be necessary to examine exactly what was going on with this money and into whose hands these funds flowed. Finally, we are talking about a deficit of 3 billion and a half. We're not going to support the final account in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. For discussion then prepare Jože Lenart, Robert Pavšič, Igor Pecek, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. The government's description of macroeconomic baselines in 2020 points out that, compared to the summer Umara forecast of economic trends for 2020, most of the basic indicators were better than expected. Gross domestic product fell by 5,5 % in 2020, which is 2.1 percentage points better than forecast. Even in the labour market, movements were better than expected. The actual decline in employment by national accounts in 2020 was 1.4 percentage points lower than forecast and 1.1 percentage points lower registered unemployment. According to previous Sursa data, data on nominal export growth, 7.9 percentage points, were also better than forecasted in 2020. This government has begun its mandate in crisis situations. She brought the first aid package to the National Assembly in hundreds of hours. In difficult circumstances, she has prepared several intervention packages to deal with covid-19. By means of measures, the government has helped to maintain 300,000 jobs. In 2020, covida measures were paid for a good EUR 2 billion, representing 16% of the expenditure achieved. EUR 965 million has been earmarked for measures such as temporary waiting for work, compensation for health insurance contributions, payment of PPIZ contributions, part-time payments, support to breeders and farmers, support to cable and ski operators and co-financing of operating costs due to the loss of hospitality and tourism income. EUR 574 million has been earmarked for measures such as: solidarity allowance for pensioners through STIZ, allowances for epidemic payments, health outages, additional staff in social security institutions, support for institutional protection and home care providers, conducting microbiological research, the work of the National Institute for Public Health, testing, equipment to control the epidemic in commodity reserves, reimbursement of the failure to carry out health activities in concessionaires, allowances to concessionaires due to the epidemic, assistance from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund in providing protective equipment for small and medium-sized enterprises and assistance to municipalities due to the epidemic. However, EUR 384 million has been earmarked for measures such as: monthly basic income, contributions to health, pension and disability insurance, solidarity allowances for students and vulnerable groups, tourist vouchers, coverage of parental pay for kindergartens, coverage of income losses for student and student homes, school kitchens and various establishments, provision of warm meals for students and students, assistance to institutional protection providers, coverage of income losses for sport, increased amount of work security allowance and solidarity allowance for other vulnerable groups. The year 2020 was an extremely difficult year. We do not say that all government measures have been ideal, but the government has taken responsibility and has done an important job in dealing with the global pandemic. The macroeconomic indicators are clear. This is also clear from the closing account. The final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 will be supported in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a final account. The word is Jože Lenart, to be prepared by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. It's right that there's something we say about the closing account. See, the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 are revised. The Court of Auditors’ opinion is positive, in all important respects correct and in accordance with the Public Finance Act, in accordance with the Accounting Act and other rules governing it. Although it has shortcomings, it even has an opinion with reservation, which is eliminated by corrections, all these inconsistencies that have been identified. So, by all rules, such a closing account should also be supported. But we can't do it in LMSH, and I'll explain why. There's another problem. Certainly in the content itself, in this irrational spending with accepted pecapes in this national assembly, which you voted on, although we did not always agree to the content of these pecapes to a large extent in the LMŠ and even in the opposition. It is an irrational waste, in many cases unnecessary spending in candy, as has been heard many times that it goes with some purpose. Even the increase in deposits of the population in banks in Slovenia is a partial reflection of all of this. We've overpaid medical protective equipment for epidemic purposes. Millions of useless masks, fans that still don't work, that aren't perfect. And if I go to the point, the numbers themselves, where that main problem is. Comparing this deficit in 2020 with revenue represents a deficit of 38.4% of the revenue created. 38,4 %. More than a third of the deficit is to be compared with income. Excluding the covid expenditure that was needed in large part, but we stressed that we were exaggerating too, means only from current expenditure that the deficit amounts to 16.3%. 16,3 %. The covid expenditure itself represents 22% of the revenue generated this year. These are very large numbers. And another piece of information. See, what 7% were running expenditure, I'm talking without covid, only running expenditure was increased by 7% compared to 2019. With negative GDP growth minus 4.2%, this final figure is now known. What a responsibility it is, then, for the government to spend even more than ever on the growth of GDP from current expenditure. This is this responsibility that we keep repeating and reminding the Fiscal Council that it was an irrational waste. I'm not talking about covid spending, I'm talking about running costs, why they were so high during the epidemic, when they were supposed to tighten the belt and they should be saving. And it is precisely this debt that the European Commission is reminding us today that we have wasted irrationally. This is a problem that is likely to be very difficult to solve or will accompany us for years and years, for you have also set aside such running expenses to increase matters and cannot then be restrained. That's the main problem and the obvious. In such a context, in such proceedings, as these Beijings in the National Assembly were also adopted by the vote of the Coalition Members, the Court of Auditors also had to issue a positive opinion in accordance with these standards. However, I or the LMŠ highlight this spending, which has certainly been irrational and will be difficult to eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare yourself a mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you, President. Today we hear that it is really just a formality, a fact already implemented, for the past. I wonder how we should assess the policy of the future if we do not know the facts of the past. If we assess the current policy and policy of the future of this policy in view of the final accounts for 2020, we can rightly be very concerned. But what we hear in the political advocacy of this budget is just painting some rather beautiful abstract but blurry pictures. We are talking about 2020, when you already celebrated the victory with your flight in June because you won this war. At least that's what you said. After half a year, you've already won, and then you've forgotten the second half of the year. It was only in mid-October that you realized that the devil had taken a joke both in the management, prevention and consequences of the epidemic and in the financial field. And you've done a lot of wrong in the first half of the year. Today, I could not believe that the Group was bragging about the acquisition of protective equipment, how successful it was, and justifying greater spending in 2020. With what? By getting paper masks? By getting us some useless drug addicts? He hasn't left our memory yet. Already in the report on the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, the government has lied, proved, but for you this is an achievement that is commendable. Through such a pile of paper, we find consistency, not a strategic aspect directly, although many can be understood from these numbers. What was the success of transparency in 2020, however, is another issue. And that's what we keep reminding LMSH about. I would not repeat the numbers because it makes no sense, but we are going to just one resource, which you have collected everything from, but in 2020 it could be very important for development at the end of 2020 and even more important for setting up development policies this year. We are talking about the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy. Before the rebalancing, this resource was granted 51 million, with a rebalancing of only 12 million. So you left him only 25%, so recalculated, the means by which the ministry would then work effectively. And this one, approved by the budget rebalancing, was used less than 70%. You've got it all. And then, in the end, it's no wonder that the recovery of European funds is miserable, even though you know and can do anything. Only 55% of what's left of this little thing has been spent on local self-government, from what you can and 0% - watch out! - in which areas: energy efficiency, transport and transport infrastructure, the development of new businesses, protection and environmental infrastructure, emission reductions, housing, culture and civil society, education and sport, social security. 0 %. And if you're going to say that this money has spilled into intervention measures, yes, it's not because intervention measures have also been implemented less than 80%. If we go through the whole special part of the report, such ministries are huge in this pile of paper. To assess the performance of this document, we can only conclude with a negative assessment. You didn't show up. We could also make very good preparations for the continuation of policies. In September 2020, we adopted a rebalancing when it was a little clearer, with the need to stress once again and constantly, the government had historical powers in 2020 concerning the reallocation of funds, not only within a single item, but within the overall budget. You've done what you wanted, passed Parliament, passed all the controls. And all you've been able to do was obviously put the budget balance into Parliament in September, and this year we're not going to get it because you're in control. Yeah, you master headless spending without looking into the future. I don't want to hear the empty pots and empty heads talking anymore. You're very smart, but the numbers of your policies are overwhelming. Whether they're catastrophic or not, it's a matter of subjective personal judgment. They're devastating and catastrophic to me personally. Not even because they're not taking pictures of some bright future. If we had enough courage, we'd be able to review this year's finances through the balance sheet. It's not gonna work, is it? Because we could probably figure out a lot more than we did in 2020, which you started with a surplus and ended up with a very large minus. No matter the circumstances, no matter what. You know, the constant reference to circumstances, the epidemic, and all that, doesn't hold up any more logical judgment. For a while now, but constantly, as we are at war, as we are in 2020, according to your actions, we were not in the war after June 15th until I think October 22nd. [[…]] And the time of summer was enough. Not only to clean the swimming pools in Krk, there was also enough time to prepare a development strategy and how the European funds could draw on the preparation of documentation, with the preparation of development projects. Of course, here on these items that I mentioned, there was nothing, on some items that are all packed in, very nice name is, yes, wait for me to find – funds to finance the epidemic, and there were also realisations with the index 260, that is, 160 more than what you predicted in the rebalancing of September. Since you had this opportunity, you took advantage of it and used it where it was most appropriate for you, more than you should have.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are talking about the final account for 2020. If we take it that way, these are the facts found and whatever we add here is the situation as it is, and we can't change anything today. As has been said several times, this was the first year of the epidemic, which has left a profound impact both on human health and on our public finances. And for many long years, citizens and citizens will cover this query that this government has made in this year. We have heard that, in fact, revenues were realised at EUR 9 billion, expenditure of 12.5 billion. €3.5 billion was spent within a year by this government. Of this, it was realized for 2.2 billion for covid supplements that were paid. While some are justified, many are far from the beneficiaries. In particular, if I focus on the purchase of protective and medical equipment, I will touch these unfortunate masks with a rubber, which I think still have to be in the warehouse today, for which some money has been earmarked, but are completely useless, as we talked about. And that can worry us quite honestly where that money went. The money's gone. In my opinion, these masks will have to be smoked somehow or I don't know what they're going to be intended for, because today we can only wear surgical masks and FFP2 masks. In the coming months, the surgical masks may not be enough, but we'll just have to have FFP2 masks. If so, then for such masks, the State should also allocate sufficient resources and also provide them for all citizens and citizens. And what's the worst? What's bad is that in September we adopted the budget rebalancing and it turned out that this government can't properly plan its expenditure. And we have seen these derogations in this budget. It would also touch on covid supplements received by employees in the public sector. Really, as imprudent and ineffective as these supplements were shared, it is a matter of real concern. I hope that this government has learned at least something, that it will no longer do so, or at least we have heard. Doctors and servers have exactly the same life and the lives of these employees are the same. I am not at all counting that some have received 8,000 supplements and that the servers have only a few euros, but all the other staff at the lower level. Here's the real question, and people were justly asking themselves, who were working, whether they were second-class employees. We're really worried about that. In doing so, I forgot to say at the outset that this government has taken over 225 million of the surplus it has lost, I don't even know how short or just in the first three months. And that's worrying. I really don't care about the fact that this is how the taxpayers' money went up, the debt of citizens and citizens increased to just over 20,000 per citizen, and this data is really worrying. The final budget account also shows the drawdown of European funds, which has been really catastrophic, because in recent years we have received from the current coalition, how we do not know how to draw on European funds, what is going on here, but the final budget account clearly shows that 941 million European funds have been spent, 720 million have been spent, and the difference is in 216 million or almost a quarter of these planned funds. It is true that the debt of the state budget increased dramatically in last year. It already accounts for almost 74% of gross domestic product, and we can really worry about what will happen in the coming years. Absolutely no consensus or legitimacy can be given to this final account, so I will also vote against this final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you, too. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. You want a word? No, he doesn't want a word. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Applications are under way. We've got one registered. The word is Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the debate on the final account for 2020, I would like to focus on two other matters that I find very important, one is the constant chatter about the non-transparentness of spending of resources, and the other is completely unfemale, not to say unsavoury, praise for the budgetary surplus that was created in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Finance Board, I was also in charge in 2020 of monitoring the way in which the Government spent budgetary money in emergency situations or emergencies. We have also had special reports and special sessions aimed at addressing such a problem. The most significant in this regard was the Committee on Finance, which we had on 5 November 2020. At that time, the Government prepared very thorough reports on the reallocation of spending rights within budgetary resources by budgetary user. This matter was first identified on a time basis and then also on a value basis. We have received two very extensive reports for the period from 1 July to 31 August 2020, where €697 million has been redeployed and for deductions from 1. 9. to 30. 9. 2020, where €165 million has been redeployed. Together, therefore, in three months, for a good 862 million euros according to the financial plans' proponents and additional debt. All together it is equipped with government conclusions and documentation that is very difficult to review, but with documentation showing exactly who the budget user is, which is an account or budget item, which account, which subprogramme, even a code in the development programme plan, from whom to whom for 862 million euros. Then we had a meeting of the Finance Committee. And you know what happened? There was no debate on this report at all. All those who cried out, how untransparent it was, had the opportunity to ask each budget item why it happened and why it was intended for that other user. And they were all quiet all the time. And today I'm listening to how untransparent everything is. This is completely unreal. Second thing. As regards that famous surplus in the 2019 budget, EUR 234 million. Investment transfers to municipalities were lower by 105 million than planned in 2019. The general budget provision was not used at EUR 45 million, as there was no need for it to be used because there was no emergency situation and the co-financing of the pension allowance was lower by 40 million. Why? Due to the fact that there were sufficient payments due to the situation of economic operators. If we add all this up, 105 plus 45 plus 40, that's 190 million to 234 million plus. And if this is something to be commended for, let it be good, but this matter is true plus in the final budget account for 2019 was done because transfers were not made to the municipalities because there was no need to co-finance the pension fund and because there was no need to use the budget reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you, too. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a final account. The proposal for a final account will be decided on Thursday, 25 November 2021 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Defence of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motion for a decree. Maja Hostik Kališek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Your Honor! Allow me to present to you the proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022, a related assessment of the Fiscal Council and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this assessment. In order to ensure an adequate level of resources for measures to mitigate the effects of covida-19 and additional measures to urgently support the initial recovery, the Government proposes a recast of the current labour decree relating to 2021. The proposed amendments will allow the ceiling for the expenditure of the state sector to increase to EUR 25 000 800 million for 2021 and the deficit will decrease to 7.5% of GDP. After the cash flow, the ceiling for expenditure will increase to EUR 14 000 990 million and the deficit will decrease to 7.9% of GDP. This will allow for the continued smooth financing of all measures under covid-19 legislation and additional measures to urgently support initial recovery. In doing so, I would like to point out that there is a significant increase in state investment this year. At the level of the country sector in 2021, we estimate an investment growth of 38% relative to 2020. According to 2019, the country's investments will increase by 44 % in 2021. However, the importance of investments in the country's expenditure also shows that the country's deficit, without taking into account investment expenditure in 2021, would amount to 2.1% of GDP and the government budget deficit would be 4.6% of GDP without taking into account investment and investment transfer expenditure in 2021. The proposal for the framework was also presented by the Fiscal Council. It notes that the proposed amendment allows for an additional incentive fiscal policy despite improved macroeconomic conditions. The assessment by the Fiscal Council also highlights inadequate and non-transparent fiscal policy planning as the draft decree is not accompanied by a national budget rebalancing. It also draws attention to the unrealistic planning of public spending, including the use of investment funds. In response, I would like to point out that, due to exceptional circumstances and to the general withdrawal clause, a temporary derogation from fiscal rules is allowed. Due to high uncertainties, the European Commission only makes qualitative assessments of the fiscal positions of individual countries, and Slovenia is not particularly exposed as a problem country. With regard to the evidence of non-transparent fiscal policy management, it should be pointed out that the national budget for 2021, adopted in November 2020, earmarked €774 million for the control of the epidemic, but further action was needed in view of the significantly wider scale and longer duration of the epidemic. By the end of the year, we are planning up to 2.8 billion euro payments from the state budget for these purposes. With regard to transparency, I should say that expenditure for covida-19 purposes is recorded in the budget in a separate sub-programme under an individual measure or article of the law, proposing financial plans, economic purpose and source of funds. We also publish data on a monthly basis on the Ministry of Finance's website, ensuring full transparency and traceability of all allocations under the state budget. It is also important that the difference between the budget adopted and the amount of eligible expenditure for the State budget set out in the current decree can be used exclusively to finance expenditure related to the covida-19 epidemic, thus establishing a regulation equivalent to that of the State's budget rebalancing institution. With regard to the unrealistic planning of public spending, including the use of investment funds, I would like to clarify that expenditure on covida-19 measures is assessed on the basis of existing measures and ongoing implementation. At the same time, the current investment planning regime requires the direct budget user to be able to award a contract for the entire value of the project or action only when they have the planned spending rights in the budgets adopted. Dear Members! The duration of the epidemic and the deterioration of the economic situation during the covida-19 epidemic in 2021 require the continuation of measures to combat the epidemic, while at the same time encouraging fiscal policy in the light of recovery. It is therefore important not to change the dynamics of investments. The motion for a decree is prepared on this basis, so I suggest you adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 39th meeting on 3 November this year, the Finance Committee considered as a working mother the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022. It was submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government. No amendments were tabled for the motion for a decree. The Minister of Finance presented the substantive amendments to the draft decree and the reasons for it, bearing in mind that there are still exceptional circumstances that will continue to apply in 2022. As a result, expenditure on cod measures and measures to help the economy are increased. He further presented some macroeconomic indicators and the role of investments as one of the main levers for resilience and recovery. No comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service on the proposal for a decision. The President of the Fiscal Council pointed out that the change in the framework was not transparent, as there were no relevant accompanying budgetary documents, so there was uncertainty and the assessments of the Fiscal Council were only indicative. He thought the cost projections were unrealistic. He also warned of high investment spending. He also pointed out that it was too often an amendment to the decree, which would otherwise be the medium-term basis for planning. The Fiscal Council thus notes that fiscal policy is geared towards increasing the resilience of the economy, but that this is a significant deterioration in the public financial situation and that there are major risks due to the uncertainty of future funding, which is currently favourable. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the decree takes into account the autumn forecast, which is also the basis for the budgetary documents. The projected economic growth for 2021 is 6%, which means that the decline in growth was lower than planned, as the economy has already adapted to the situation. It also presented very precisely the structure of growth and export data, on private consumption, on investments and on the situation in the labour market. With regard to the risks, she said that they were still linked to the cot crisis and highlighted problems in service activities and in the processing industry. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted in particular the ceiling on expenditure and the multiple amendments to the draft decree and pointed out that these increases were non-transparent. They considered that a budget rebalancing would be necessary for 2021. They also pointed out an increase in the deficit even without codifying measures and an increase in Slovenia's public debt. On the contrary, the other members and members of the Committee considered that the proposed amendment to the Decree was in accordance with Article 148 of the Constitution, since exceptional circumstances were in place that the measures were correct and pointed out that, following the most recent amendments to the Decision, two more laws concerning codified measures were adopted. At the same time, they warned that economic growth is high in Slovenia and that the number of unemployed is declining. They also pointed out that the situation of the epidemic has changed considerably since the first decision adopted, and it was also mentioned that the savings of the population have increased significantly during this period. During the discussion, the Minister of Finance provided additional clarifications and answers to the questions raised. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. The Committee on Finance, as its parent working body, has not adopted any amendments to the draft decree and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. The economic situation in our country is significantly different in 2021 from that in 2020. If we recorded a decline in economic activity in 2020, this year luckily, we can be happy about this, Slovenia is recording relatively high economic growth. But when we look at the budgets, the picture is actually just as bad last year and this year. The budget deficit is around 4 billion there last year, 3.5 billion this year, and this will continue. By this decree that we now have before us, you want to vote on this decision at the end of November 25th, increase the budget expenditure by €670 million – listen well – €670 million. Pursuant to the law on the implementation of budgets, the payment deadline is practically 30 days for all things paid from the budget. It is said that you will have two working days to spend 670 million. Of course, there's another possibility that you've already wasted it, but you haven't paid what's worse. In short, irresponsible financial policy has led us to the situation we are in today. We have a 4-billion-dollar deficit, despite 6.4 -- that's of course a forecast -- of economic growth. We're in charge of the historic high. More than 40 billion will be government debt at the end of the year. Take note of the biggest structural deficit in Europe, in the euro area. In Europe, however, only Romania is worse than Slovenia. This is a society in which the irresponsible work of the government has led us in the last year and a half. But the most irresponsible thing is that you will, so I'm going to waste your word because you don't say what, you're going to spend 670 million without saying what. Not at the committee, not at the meeting, not at the current position of the Government, the Ministry of Finance did not tell us what this 670 million will spend on. Is that what you're paying for? Are these extras to work in accommodating conditions? Could this be Mr. Tonin's plane? What are you going to do with these 670 million? That is why we explain to you that it would be right for the National Assembly to adopt the budget balance for this year, where it would clearly be 100 million for wages, 50 million for allowances, 100 million for Mr Tonin's plane, and still some 450. Are we even aware of the amount of money that is 670 million? And you will scatter them so that you now accept "we can consume". But what we're going to spend this for, not for the Members, not for the people, is that it's important that we spend this 670 million. In this way, public policy in our country should not be guided: not last year, not this year and not in the years ahead. That is why, of course, we will vote in the SAB against such an irrational and abnormal waste of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The State budget framework decision for the period 2020 to 2022 was adopted in April 2019. Today we're talking about his fifth change. This time the government proposes to amend the decree in the work relating to 2021. The comparison of the originally adopted decree with today’s, in fact, paints us something that is completely unbelievable from today’s perspective. For illustration, the objective of the then stability programme, incorporated in the decree, was to reduce Slovenia's external debt in 2021 to 57.9% of GDP and to 54.7% for 2022. At that time, in April 2019, it was stipulated that the expenditure of the sector would increase by 7 % over the whole period from 2020 to 2022. Most importantly, given today's state of affairs, it has been planned to increase the expenditure of the state budget at 2.4% the most slowly in the overall expenditure structure of the sector. It is important to stress this in order to understand how terribly the world has changed this year and nine months since the outbreak of the pandemic. The basic view of the explanation of the proposal to increase the maximum allowed expenditure in the state budget, which is clearly moving at EUR 670 million, is that there are five reasons for this, namely the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the Covida-19 Epidemic and the Law on Emergency Health Measures. The increase in the expenditure of the State budget is also affected by the obligation for the State to provide value added tax funds in the implementation of the national resistance and recovery plan and for the State to ensure the obligation to provide funds for national participation in the React-EU programme. In addition, it is important to mention the submission of applications on the basis of the intervention laws adopted. However, it is also important that certain applications to the State budget are made with considerable delay. Thus, claims for the payment of commitments under the 2020 measures were also transferred to 2021. The current situation is that we have planned expenditure in the state budget for this year, 13 billion and 468 million. We are now considering amending the decree so that the maximum expenditure would increase by 10 million less than 15 billion. Members of the Desus Group estimate that this increase is somewhat excessive and that it will happen in the same way as it happened in 2020, so that the high-priced value of expenditure will not be fully realized. It is also important to achieve the planned revenue, for example, where the revenues of two types of tax, income and corporate income tax on 21 November of this year have already exceeded the planned figures for 2021. This fact indicates the correctness of the State fiscal policy aimed at two objectives, the maintenance of liquidity and the highest possible extent of business, employment and income conservation. The fiscal authority must assume obligations to employees to pay their salaries if employers cannot do so. This is how companies are kept. Businesses and all other economic operators need to be maintained not only financially but also legally and productively, as the advantages of collective experience, which are important in terms of productivity, are otherwise lost. However, it must be made clear that a large budget deficit is being financed with debt, which has been created and is still due to the consequences of the epidemic. The flaw is inconvenient, but he's not executed. So what are the prospects? This depends most on how we behave now that the epidemic is still going on. In doing so, it is not possible to circumvent the debate or, more precisely, to warn against the various forms of risks of not achieving measurable or at least realistic objectives. The most risky thing is not to take the risk, but it's shortsighted. It's the most risky thing to do. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a decree amending the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will not support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the country sector for 2020 and 2022. As regards the proposal for a decree, it is first of all worth explaining that the Government has adopted amendments that have raised the ceiling of the state budget expenditure by a little less than €700 million this year. This is the second time this year we've increased the spending limit from the decree. We would like to point out that the expenditure in the current budget approved by the National Assembly last November is set at 13.47 billion euros. Subsequently, the National Assembly of April this year, by decree, allowed a budget spending of 14.32 billion euros. Now, with new changes to the decree, the government is proposing an increase of almost €15 billion. Although there will be large deviations in the state budget for 2021, given that budget spending of 1.5 billion euros will be higher than planned, the government has avoided the rebalancing. The legal and constitutional fiscal framework is clear. All national revenue and expenditure must be set out in the budget. Since the Government has not drawn up the balance sheet, it will work, if not unlawfully, at least unconstitutionally and untransparently, because it is only by deciding on the decision without deciding on the balance sheet at the same time, that we give the Minister of Finance a blank check for EUR 1.5 billion, which can be freely shared between individual departments. Dear Minister or Secretary of State! We cannot view the budget simply as a formal document, because this makes it logical to allow the Government to raise budgetary spending by decrees without the legitimacy given by the National Assembly by deciding on the budget or the budget rebalancing. The latter practice is just as controversial for us as it was for the administration of the Government with the covida-19 epidemic by decrees restricting movement, prohibiting the provision of services, the sale of goods and other decisions. In the Member State, we are aware that a change in the ceiling of expenditure is necessary to a certain extent, but not at the proposed level. On the basis of the two anti-Korona laws adopted this year, namely in the field of economy, tourism and health, an increase in expenditure ceilings is needed. Both laws are estimated to have an impact on the rise of EUR 300 million. The government, however, raised the border by €700 million. It follows from here that for EUR 400 million it is not known why they are earmarked. It is the responsibility of the Government to explain to the National Assembly the use or the rebalance between which budget items this money will be allocated. Since the Government has not prepared the balance, we have no answer to whether these funds will be used this year and for what purposes. We also refer to you and the Government as to whether part of this increase will also be intended to pay off so-called covid supplements in the public sector, which are already able to claim that the government has completely escaped control. So far, we have earmarked some 980 million euros and 300 million more for all of the employees' benefits while waiting for work. The first analyses of the Ministry of Public Administration, which showed that the supplements were not shared according to the same criteria and that they were also received by public officials who were not exposed to infections, indicate that the distribution of supplements to the Government was completely out of control. As you know, the recorder received 81,125,000 euros in gross covid supplements. The winners in the public sector, however, were doctors; not only those who earned the most in the intensive care and therapy departments, but also the rest. According to the total mass, for example, several thousand doctors received only a little less than 21,000 nurses, midwives, medical technicians together. They were remembered by the government just before laborers, when it became clear that they were not going without them and that they were mass-departed from hospitals to better paid jobs. It is therefore not surprising that the Fiscal Council has also pointed out that the proposal for amendments to the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector should be accompanied by a rebalancing and that the framework contains many elements of inadequate planning in situations, which is only partly justified by the uncertainty about the epidemic. According to the Fiscal Council, a significant increase in expenditure in 2021 will lay the basis for an inadequate structure, and a structural deterioration in the situation of public finances in the future. On the basis of all that has been said in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the proposed decree, of course we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022. The precarious situation and the unpredictable situation continue to require a stimulating fiscal policy. The general clause also derogates in the European Union as exceptional circumstances allows a temporary derogation from fiscal rules. The main solutions to the draft decree are changes in the target balances and the highest level of expenditure of the state sector and the state budget. The decree increases the level of eligible expenditure, namely the 500 million-euro sector for countries and the state budget of 670 million euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the bulk of these increased expenditure goes to battle with covid-19. The country has two main objectives here: to curb the spread of covid-19 infections and, on the other hand, to preserve the functioning economy and maintain jobs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that this fight is a success. We also see in economic growth, which is one of the highest in the European Union in the country of Slovenia, and that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union at a given time. We are confident that these additional expenditure that are coming will have a positive effect in the near future and have a positive effect today. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment increases the maximum expenditure for the state budget by €670 million this year. Following the last amendments to the decree, in April this year, two more intervention laws were introduced, which are related to measures to mitigate the effects of covida-19 and additional measures to urgently support initial recovery. After the first, the maximum value of the 250 million measures was only 23 million by September. For the second, the maximum value of measures was 49 million, with only 4 million being realized by September. Together, this is the maximum of €300 million of expenditure under these two laws. Given that the Government has not drawn up a balance from which it would be obvious where the remaining 370 million euros goes, we expected this to be explained in the draft act. We couldn't have been more wrong! The explanation of the difference of up to 670 million; therefore, what the state will devote the remaining 370 million to, a blur in fog as a lost sailor, is very general, everything we have has explained to the government that some applications are being submitted with delay. Nothing concrete, no numbers related to action. It's amazing, but it's real! In fact, you will make another 100 million minus, without the legislative body at this stage, as far as coalitions and their positions are concerned, just a blind voting machine; therefore, without even informing the National Assembly where the money will go. More! This possibility that you can at any time raise the level of expenditure, the amendment of the decree, you have just voted again in the new Law on the Implementation of Budgets for the years 2022 and 2023. You were also warned about this by the Legal and Legal Service. In its opinion, this pointed out that what resources would be used and for what purpose should be explained in relation to the budget; that is, the legal act adopted by the National Assembly. The budget is a financial plan of a country with fiscal policy objectives, development objectives, priority areas and political and strategic priorities for the government, which makes it particularly important for democratic governance of public affairs at the highest level. The proposed regime indicates a potential violation of the principle of power-sharing and is entirely within the competence of the National Assembly to adopt the State budget. Your sneezing coalition voting machine has thus, of course, confirmed the solution, which means that next time you can raise the level of expenditure without explaining to the National Assembly what the funds will be allocated. Given that we are expecting a new PKP law, it is already quite clear to us that this increase in expenditure will be intended for the distribution of pre-election candy, candy. The amendments to the decision will, of course, be opposed in the LMŠ due to the complete lack of transparency in the process of its consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As we have already said at the time of the consideration of the draft budget, the governments have fallen out of line to exercise everything, including control over public finances. The budgeting frameworks work by first limiting the maximum total expenditure allowed and then adopting the budget and its classes. We have repeatedly warned that the government has been in violation of this rule since its first day. It refers to an exceptional situation by constantly putting Parliament before the facts carried out. It redistributes funds on its own through restrictions and then informs Parliament and asks it to amend the framework again. In less than two years, the government has become fully accustomed to exceed all the frameworks and that the implementation of its plans deviates greatly from the budgetary plans. For last year, at least the government proposed a budget rebalancing by the end of the year, even though it did not adhere to its limitations in terms of consumption. This year, however, the Government has already acknowledged that, by October, it had spent a billion and a half more than the budget allowing it to submit budget documents to the National Assembly. Nevertheless, it does not propose any rebalancing. Instead, it comes before us with a proposal for a decree that would increase budget spending by an additional EUR 670 million. In all of this, the Government, by adopting the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, gave itself the authority to allocate all these funds beyond the budget; in other words, the Government restricts this decree when spending, and even when exceeding its limits, the Government had no doubts without any knowledge and overstepped them. After receiving the cheque's Bianca for the coming years, the ruling coalition has signed it this year, on the basis of one billion and a half over-expenditures, a second billion backlog in European funds, record debt growth and a whole range of new costs, not related to the fight against the epidemic, but will continue to burden a number of budgets. All of this — also the circumstances in which the government again insists on spending more than it did a month ago. Respected, such powers are in breach of the essential principle of constitutional regulation, in which the budgetary framework is decided by the National Assembly. The powers required by the Government mean that the role of Parliament no longer makes any sense, especially if it renounces its constitutional role. We expected the Government to draw up a transparent balance for this year, but unfortunately it remains faithful to its autocratic style of government, which expects only powers, praises and applause from the National Assembly, and there is no room for critical voices in these expectations. Therefore, we cannot support the proposal of this resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much and very much! Even in Levica, we cannot support the amendment of the 2021 budget regulation for reasons similar to those mentioned by my predecessors. First of all, I would like to remind you that we have just completed our consideration of the final accounts for 2020, where the basic conclusion was that the country under the Janša government created a record deficit of 3 billion and a half this year. In 2021, it's even worse. From the original budget plan, the government has already deviated by 4 billion and a half. So in two years, 8 billion deficits have been raised. And what's the worst here is for these 670 million euros you've booked by changing this decree, we don't even know where they're going. You did not put this money in the budget, you did not prepare a balance; you did not try to tell Parliament or the public why you needed it; you did not do so much to explain it in your explanations for the change in the decree. All we know is that money won't go for what you say. The explanations state that these 670 million will be spent on financing the Emergency Health Act and the Ninth Anti-Corona Act, which is not true. You said that yourself when you wrote in the financial effects of these two laws that they were estimated at EUR 299 million. It is said that these two laws together weigh down according to the assessment of the same government, which has prepared an amendment to this decree, less than half of these 670 million. And the fiscal world says it's even worse. For both laws together, which are intended to change this decree to require an additional 670 million, the realisation was only EUR 44 million by the end of September. So over €670 million, there is a big puzzle. What exactly does the state need them for? What exactly is the government going to use them for? Maybe for that plane that Minister Tonin went to Italy to look for; maybe for public sector supplements that cost us 900 million euros by the end of September this year; maybe for pre-election gifts. We don't know. But you have not done enough to tell us, or at least to the public, if you already despise Parliament and democratic institutions, what you will spend €670 million on. But we know the following that this is unconstitutional and illegal. The first paragraph of Article 148 of the Constitution makes it clear that "all revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be covered in the budgets of the State". You've been in violation of this for the second year in a row. The fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the Public Finance Act states the same, "the budget shall show all revenue belonging to the State or municipality and the expenditure of the State or municipality for individual purposes." This 670 million is therefore directly in violation of the Public Finance Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also know that these 670 million euros are in breach of all the democratic rules of the game enshrined in the Constitution. It is the responsibility of the Government to base its spending through a budget which must be presented to the National Assembly and which will explain why the money will be spent. You didn't do it. And last but not least, what we know is that Janša's government is once again implementing fiscal policy, as in the previous two governments. Between 2005 and 2008, you overheated the economy with expansion policy, instead of creating some surpluses, you reduced taxes mainly on capital and the rich. And when the crisis hit, with the second government in 2020, you put an account out for the poor. ZUJF – The Public Finance Balance Act – which drew the country into a second recession, has, of course, reaped for 320 million euros those who had nothing or at least by creating the crisis. We're looking at similar black clouds. In 2020, 2021 and 2022 you will be spending a lot of money, and in 2023 you are already forecasting in your own budget, which you have proposed and was adopted last week to save at least EUR 580 million, which the Fiscal Council says is impossible to achieve if you do not interfere with wages and pensions, which is, of course, unacceptable. And that's why we can't support such devils.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you for your word. Amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 relate to the amendment of the target balance and the maximum level of expenditure of the State sector and the state budget. Following the last amendment of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020-2022, two other intervention laws were adopted, which are linked to measures to mitigate the effects of covida-19 and additional measures to urgently support initial recovery. It is the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the Covid-19 Epidemic and the Law on Emergency Health Measures. When adopting the content of the Budget Framework Decision, it is always an extremely important view of some of the key macroeconomic indicators, which also define fiscal reality in our country. Slovenia is according to the criteria of unemployment among the best countries in the European Union. In late September, 66 thousand 122 unemployed were registered at the Employment Office, accounting for 21.1 per cent less than last September. Slovenia has achieved only 3.9% unemployment, with the EU average much higher than 6.8%. Today we can read the cover on the record number of Slovenian employees. We have 906 thousand 434 active, which is the most since Surs measured this indicator. The actions of the Minister of Labour, John Cigler the King, have clearly brought great success. The European Commission has already announced 5.7% of economic growth in Slovenia this year, almost 20% higher than the average forecast for the European Union at that time. In the autumn forecast, the Slovenian Commission predicts even 6.4% economic growth this year. The forecast for the euro area averages significantly less than 5 per cent. The nominal figures of Umarja show that already this year GDP will be nominally higher than in 2019 before the epidemic. All of this is also reflected in the fact that revenue in the state budget, without taking into account the direct impact of cod measures in the first half of this year, was up by as much as 13.6 per cent over the year. We can very often hear of public debt increases in the country. We understand this question. At the same time, it is worth recalling that we are in a global pandemic situation. A general derogation clause has been activated throughout the European Union. The whole world had to adapt to this situation, resulting in an increase in public debt. At the same time, it is essential to highlight some important figures. Slovenia was under the debt criterion of the country as compared to GDP in 2019 for 18.3 percentage points of GDP below the euro area average and for 11.9 percentage points below the average of the European Union. In 2021, according to the latest estimates of the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, this difference will increase further, with an estimated debt of 23.9 percentage points of GDP below the euro area average and 15.9 percentage points below the average of the European Union. This means that Slovenia has increased its indebtedness to GDP by less than the average of the euro area countries and the European Union. Taking into account Slovenia's above average results in economic growth and very low unemployment, we can conclude that the government's sub-average debt coalition has achieved over-average results. The proposal for a decree is proposed in line with the government's previous guidelines for combating the epidemic and mitigating its consequences. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats - we will therefore, of course, support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members and Representatives of the Government! Today we are considering a proposal for a new decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, which allows the state budget to increase the amount of eligible expenditure. This increase will provide funding for the implementation of measures related to the control of the epidemic and the promotion of economic activity this year. Following the last amendment of this decree in April this year, two more laws were adopted to address the consequences of the pandemic, namely the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to End the Covid-19 pandemic and the Law on Emergency Health Measures. The current framework is therefore no longer sufficient to finance the two laws or measures provided for by these two laws and therefore increases the ceiling on the expenditure of the State budget. In addition, a re-emergency epidemiological picture contributes to this. The decree will therefore change the highest level of expenditure of the state sector, with its ceiling rising by half billion in 2021, but it is not irrelevant that, despite this nominal increase in budget deficits, relative to the gross social product level, it even decreases by 1.1 per cent. This enables us to have relatively high and stable economic growth and an extremely positive outlook for our further economic activity. The decree also amends the State budget target balance by raising it by €670 million for 2021, but the deficit will be relatively lower by 0.7 percentage points, as said, due to medium-sized economic growth. We stress that the proposed amendment to the Decision constitutes the basis for implementing the measures already adopted. In a challenging epidemiological situation, we have taken extremely fast effective economic measures that have effectively and effectively mitigated the decline in economic activity. The forecasts of future economic growth are also very good. Moreover, today we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union due in particular to such well-managed state intervention. Despite the favourable macroeconomic environment and the encouraging forecasting, action is still needed, as the overall impact of the health crisis on the economy still cannot be accurately assessed. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that it is necessary to continue to promote economic recovery as long as the dynamics of economic activities are affected by pandemic circumstances. We are also aware that, at the end of the epidemic, not only is it expected to return to a pre-crisis level, but it is also necessary to address the challenges of the future in parallel, such as digitalisation and the green transition. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that we must avoid any changes in investment dynamics. This is particularly important in the current worsening epidemiological situation. We will therefore support the amendment of this decree by Members of the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been adopted by the home working body to the draft decree and no amendments to the final provision have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made on Thursday, 25 November 2021 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš. The proposal for a law is at its 39th meeting, on 3. 11. 2021 was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Compulsory pension and disability insurance is the basis of the social state. The rights arising from it shall be financed from the contributions paid by individuals and from the expenditure of the State budget. According to the Constitution, the State is obliged to take care of the functioning of the pension and disability insurance system and to act with constant but not excessive changes. This is particularly due to the dynamics in social relations where the functioning of the system is threatened by income and expenditure imbalances. In 1996, the then government decided to significantly reduce the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance, and the employer’s contribution fell in half only a few days. It decreased from 15.5 per cent to 8.85, while the burden of the employee remained at the same level. The aim was to accelerate economic growth by increasing economic activity, in particular by stepping up the investment activity of companies. The measure also had a marked negative impact — a sharp increase in the liability of the pension fund. The balance sheet thus generated and accumulated deficits from 1996 to 2000 respectively. In 2001, the capital company's obligation to co-finance the pension fund from its business outcome followed with an important reform novelty: the state budget assumed the obligation to ensure a stable financial operation of the pension fund by financing the difference between the original income of the compulsory pension and disability insurance system and total expenditure to finance all legal obligations. Such a reduction in labour costs was justified by a new burden on the economy with a tax on paid wages. The revenue from the State budget, or the revenue from the State budget for paid salaries, was the highest in 2004 and 2005 when it amounted to 7 and a half percent of the total budget revenue, 472 million in 2004 and 506 million in 2005. The country gave up this source of revenue in 2009 in the interest of promoting the economic dynamics and competitiveness of Slovenian companies. If this tax type were maintained, it would have an impact on the whole series of macroeconomic aggregates and it is not possible to assess today how much damage this has caused. But clearly there's something else. The pension box lost more than €20 billion at the expense of reducing employers' contributions, taking into account 2020. This must have been reflected in the amount of pensions. Both pension reforms, on the one hand, increased pension conditions and, on the other hand, reduced the standards of rights previously paid and earned. Opponents of the gradual rise in the rate of contribution of employers refer mainly to the data and the resulting references of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. They say that the tax burden of working in Slovenia is relatively high in social security contributions and relatively low in income. However, in the legislative procedure, there are extensive changes in income legislation that will reduce these burdens, and it is important to know that we, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, will ultimately be paying for our pension and social system, not red tape from the white world. The regulation of labour-capital relations is the core area of each development vision. Each of these two economic categories is inevitably involved in any processing of tax legislation. The solutions may not be simple. This is also apparent in our particular case of the proposed increase in the rate of contribution for employers. Budget revenues are far too low to meet the needs in all state subsystems. Change for the better may be possible, but we will not achieve it until it comes from the belief that the only important processes in society are the economic processes managed by capital and that the power of politicians is generated only by how much capital is raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! It is terrifying to hear that more than 200,000 pensioners receive less than EUR 600. If we add that to cover the minimum cost of living needed at least 613,41 euros, the idea of providing funds to raise these is very attractive, and unfortunately that is just that. Now I don't know if it's really our fault that we're already deep into the pre-election battle, or whether we've learned nothing from all these people-like proposals all this time. I do not need to be a fortune teller to say that if the bill is adopted, the proposaler will boast on a large scale and on all possible social networks and interviews that they have taken care to raise pensions. If it is not accepted, then all of us who are against or against will be on the ground and will be crucified because they do not want to give and take the weakest. We've seen this before when the minimum wage was raised. Your mouth was full of you, how did you raise the minimum wage for these few euros and thus enable – what? Could people with these Euros buy an apartment, a house, a car? No, no, no. Did they finally fill their refrigerator? Did you buy the clothes? No, none of that! Since you have forgotten that social transfers and bank loans are also linked to the minimum wage, you have only achieved that people have had fewer. For those few euros more at pay, people made less money for some kind of credit. As social transfers prices have not been harmonised, they have received smaller child allowances, lower subsidies for rents, lunches, lunches and so on. It doesn't seem to matter and we won't talk about it because it doesn't fit the fairy tale you're selling. Yes, but I agree, the demographic picture of Slovenia is catastrophic. There's a lot of reasons for that. But finding the culprit does not solve the problem of the situation between retired and active employees being disrupted. Natural growth has been negative for some time now, so hoping that more people will soon be actively employed will not bear fruit. The idea of prolonging retirement is also a norrie. I don't know if you imagine me working on a construction site for a 70-year-old gentleman or serving you a 70-year-old. I don't know if you can't be fit these years, but I'm sure not all 70-year-olds are full of energy and want to keep working. It is also illustrative to believe that raising the rate of contribution for employers will bring solutions. Believing that employers are going to hurt themselves, I'd say maybe someone, but not everyone. I do not know how many active employees will agree to receive a lower payment in the account now. Believe that the employer will already find that the increase in the rate of the contribution will not result in a higher share of the employer's salary. As a result, this also means lower pensions. Therefore, so that we may be able to make higher pensions, we will lower wages to the currently active, and we believe that pensions will therefore be higher for the active. Did anyone think that the ratio between minimum wage and social transfers was so small that people would prefer to choose the latter? After all, at the time of retirement with a protective allowance and some other cash assistance will be paid more to the account than if their bodies are destroyed for a minimum wage. So the goal is to get all people into social transfers to live, and it will be what it will be. The problem of pensions needs to be solved, I agree with that, but in a way that the problem will be solved, not a new one, an even bigger problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The Levica Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to amend the Law on social security contributions proposing to raise the rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance in the work paid by employers. The proposer proposes to raise the contribution rate from 8.85 per cent to 12.05 per cent, by a gradual increase of 0.8 per cent in 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026. While the increase in the rate of contribution is in any case the cost of the employer, as all contributions from the employer are separated from the employer, that of course means an additional burden on wages and greater non-competitiveness in the labour market. In the SDS Group, we have always warned that wages are significantly overburdened by contributions, and we do not support the proposed changes, of course. On the contrary, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is necessary to relieve wages that employees must receive higher net wages. This is why the government income law, which increases the overall relief, is also under consideration, which means one net salary for everyone after the end of the gradual suspension. The draft law, which raises the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance proposed in Levica, was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellows! Since 1996, Slovenia has already established a system whereby employers pay a reduced rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Such arrangements depart from Europe, where workers and employers are generally equal in height for these purposes. The purpose of the decision was to reduce labour costs and to ensure Slovenian international competitiveness. Whether the measure has achieved its objectives is still being broken. The fact is, since the adoption of this decision, the state budget must co-finance the annual pension deficit. It is also true that the resources to compensate for the public financial outflow have long been gone. More than 15 years have passed since the tax on paid salaries was abolished, which has helped the budget to cover this annual cost, which last year – depending, of course, on economic developments – is around EUR 1 billion per year. It is also a fact that average pensions are low and that the percentages of those who have retired in the last decade are so low that we can rightly ask ourselves about the fairness of the established system. We support the Social Democrats' direction to improve the wage burden ratio and to ensure more equitable and stable financing of the pension system. We are also of the opinion that, if the pension system is to remain sustainable, we can no longer fund just from the contribution from work and the budget, but we must also find additional resources by state assets and capital owners. In view of the above, it must also be pointed out that the reduction of contributions 25 years ago was adopted through public and social dialogue and the agreement of all partners in the Economic and Social Council. It is also necessary to be aware of the circumstances not only of the epidemiological picture but, above all, of the harmful and arbitrary decisions of the current rulings, which, without dialogue and coordination, are building up the tax revenue system of that country. The decisions they make must be made in the context of time. A concrete solution rejected by the competent committee would thus indeed reduce the burden of the budget, but it would not in itself contribute to the rise of low pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, under the circumstances described above, we must therefore call for dialogue to be revived in particular. It is essential that future reforms take place not only through the participation of the Economic and Social Council but through a broad social debate, but in particular through coordinated solutions. Too many times we have seen how unproductive unilateral solutions can be. For smart changes in wage and rights burdens resulting from this, concerted action needs to be carried out both in the field of contributions and in the tax area, and we call on the Social Democrats Group to continue its efforts and patient coordination to finally correct the injustices of inconsistencies arising from insufficient sources of pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Pensions in our country are financed by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, the so-called pension fund. The idea is based on the contributions paid. So, as long as you're working full-time, depending on the amount of your salary, you're also making contributions to the pension fund, and then, at your old age, this pension bologna covers your pension. But there is one very large difference in the idea and in the realization; the amount of contributions paid to the pension fund is not sufficient to cover the obligations that this country has towards its pensioners, and even those obligations, such as now, within which it can be said that pensions, in particular those of the lowest, are too low. We have almost 100,000 pensioners who have to date a pension that does not bring them over the poverty risk threshold. The reason for this is that we need to look somewhere in the middle of 90 years when the rate of contribution for employers has halved. Not for the workers, though. From then on until now, the pension box office had just begun to record a hole between its revenues and its expenditure. During these two decades and a half, a total of EUR 20 billion has been raised. This is EUR 20 billion, ladies and gentlemen, which the State has donated to employers in this country at the expense of the state budget and at the expense of employees. Of course, the correction of this injustice is necessary and we say in Levica that employers' contributions should begin to move closer to the level that employees pay. With our proposal, the contribution rate would be raised at 0.8 per cent for employers in the next four years. After the past four years, an additional half billion euros could be hoped for each year to find its way to the pension fund and to finance a safe age and care for pensioners. After providing this additional resource for the pension fund, two strategies and two paths would be available as a company. The first is that we spill these extra funds into rising those lowest pensions. These are, of course, other laws, other measures, with which we have already tried in the past in Levica. Only in the time of the last government have we managed to set the lowest full-time pension over the long-term cost of living, it is said, over a good EUR 600. At the same pace, we could continue, more courageously, if the pension fund were to be insured by additional payments from employers’ contributions. The second scenario, as a result of these additional payments and additional resources, would be the decommissioning of the state budget. The current transfer from the state budget to the pension fund is around EUR 1 billion per year for all pensions actually being paid, regardless of the economic situation in which the country is situated. In this way they are protected from any crisis of capitalism, which of course is right. If we provide an additional half billion euros each year to the pension fund, this would mean that half the transfer that the state supplies to pensions can be made to the pension fund. This is half a billion euros that could be invested in, oh, such highly subservient areas that have been stagnant for a long time with each budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me just set up shelters for young people and take care of the elderly. In these very days, we are talking about the Long-Terms Act. These funds could also be used to build the homes of older citizens. For the reconstruction of the transport network, investment in railways, a general response and adaptation of society to the climate crisis and the climate crisis. All of these options are open in the future, but only if we make a fairer contribution to the employers and fill the pension fund from the increased contributions than this instant full budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, this solution was not voted on by the committee. However, we will continue to be socialists in Levica. After all, it was not the first time in pension documents, but it was already an integral part of the previous coalition contract, namely the Sharche government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Today we have already rejected the proposal for a new Law on Social Security Contributions proposed by the Left. Although we are already trained by this proposal, this proposal has surprised us at least a little at the time of the first submission. The Left proposed additional burden on employers with contributions. The proposal, the additional burden on employers, suggests Levica, despite the fact that in Slovenia we are already getting the most contributions in terms of GDP among all OECD countries. This is almost 16% of GDP. We're in the first place. I guess that's not enough. The question is, when will it be enough? With this law, the Left wanted to increase the workload and labour costs of Slovenia a little while longer, and we need the opposite measures to compete with our economy. The report of the World Economic Forum on the competitiveness of global economies for 2017 to 2018 refers to this. After this study, we were ranked 135th out of 137 countries after how much taxes and social contributions reduce willingness to work. There's only Greece and Brazil behind us. With the incentive of the tax environment for investment, Slovenia ranks 113th in the company Jemna, Burundi, Dominican Republic and Tanzania. Apparently, the left one wants to get us deeper, just to the end of the ladder. Even more recent data from the Swiss Institute for Management Development are not encouraging. He placed Slovenia only 40th place on the 2021 world competitiveness scale among the 64 countries covered by the survey. The government has already responded to this data with a proposal for tax reform. Particularly worrying indicators of the highest threshold tax rate, where Slovenia among OECD countries according to data for 2020 with 61.1 per cent even in the first place. In terms of illustration, the highest tax rate is more than 61 cents for taxes and contributions to each newly earned euro. This is the highest share in the OECD. The impact of such taxation on motivation for work is clear; the additional burden on employers does not in any way help solve the consequences of this problem. Many companies stress that they simply cannot properly reward top staff due to the workload. The world and with it Slovenia is rapidly growing into the fifth industrial revolution. We're talking about smart places, smart communities, digitization. Development follows us every step of the way every day. That's why they're key good developers, engineers, capable managers, experts. Our companies need to develop development and innovative cores, properly reward workers in them and, of course, attract good experts from abroad. Now we can see the opposite trend. Since our companies cannot reward top staff because of non-stimulating tax legislation, they are going abroad and the damage is exceptional. And that only deepens the proposal of the Left. In New Slovenia we advocate a different direction. We propose the implementation of the development cap. If we want the Slovenian economy to develop, we must maintain a highly qualified workforce, which the country must also offer a favourable environment. Since the rights of social contributions are not unlimited, it is also appropriate to limit the growth of the required payment of contributions at a certain amount of wages. It is important that we reward the able people properly and also retain them in Slovenia. Higher-educated staff enable companies to develop and thereby increase salaries for all employees. The proposal goes in the opposite direction. This long - term course means poverty for everyone, not just for a handful. We are therefore pleased in New Slovenia that the proposal for a law has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Hello, everyone! Today we are also considering a proposal for a new Law on Social Security Contributions, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by members of the Left. It proposes that employers’ contributions to pension and disability insurance instead of the current 8.85 per cent since 2026 should continue to pay at a rate of 12.05 per cent of the base. The proposed increase would be introduced gradually, with a four-fold increase of 0.8 percentage points between 2023 and 2026. By 2026, they would have returned slightly below the level of the employer contribution rate, as in force by 1996, when the then government under the leadership of Dr. Janez Drnovska decided to significantly reduce the pension rate for employers, i.e. by 6.65 percentage points. However, the key reason for this reduction was also justified with the aim of improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Today's proposed increase in employers' contribution rates would not in itself have brought higher pensions, but the available public pension funds would have increased, but the specific arrangements of the pension system would not have had a direct impact on the level of pensions. More than that; all those areas and the direction of systemic solutions are precisely defined in the so-called White Paper on Pensions as regards the sustainability of the pension allowance, the amount of pensions and the amount of contributions to pension and disability insurance. However, the solutions envisaged go in the opposite direction from today's proposal, in particular in the direction of reducing the contribution rate of insurers and extending the insurance base from which pension contributions are paid. This would be a sustainable course of solutions that would not endanger the competitiveness of our economy and not increase, but even lower labour costs. The latter would not only prevent the so-called brain drain, but would create the conditions or working environment for attracting young, highly specialized and educated personnel. As a result, it would allow the development of our economy in the direction of modern digitalisation and green breakthrough technologies. Conditions for developmental breakthroughs and shifts into high added-value industries would be created so that, to put it simply, they could finally compete mainly with the brain and not so much with the muscles. However, in the case of the proposed novel by the Left Group, it is a narrow and harmful unilateral intervention into a complex pension system. The adoption of this novel would further burden our economy. And that is right in the years after we have managed to establish the conditions through serious efforts that our companies have responded successfully and effectively to pandemic circumstances and have recovered or even upgraded operations compared to the prehistoric period. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that all progressive efforts to reduce the tax burden on work and to increase the competitiveness of our business environment are being undermined by the implementation of the proposed changes at the moment. Slovenia already belongs to a group of countries where work is cost-consumingly burdened, according to OECD criteria. But we are pleased that this coalition is development-oriented and aware of the importance of proper taxation of work. The government novelty of the Income Act by gradually taxing the revenue from work is, according to our assessment, a step in the right direction, towards greater competitiveness of the business environment and increased economic activity in our area, and above all will increase net earnings from work. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we were unable to support these amendments to the Social Security Contributions Act at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, present! A few months ago, in the National Assembly, we had some definition of the novel with the same goals, namely, raising employers' contribution rates for pension and disability insurance from the current 8.85 per cent gradually to 12.05 per cent. The proposal also argues this time that the novel will improve the pensioner's standard and that the volume of public funds available for social and development purposes will increase. The fact is that our pension system is becoming unsustainable due to demographic changes. Many other countries around the world, most of them, are also facing an uncontrollable situation. The problems are not solved and cannot be solved by some magic wand or by ad hoc underthinking and deliberate unilateral measures. We don't say, we don't say, we don't say that there's no need to intervene in the pension system. On the contrary! However, we cannot interfere with it unilaterally, without social dialogue, without a broad debate and an assessment of the impact on other systems that guarantee us social rights. Before future interventions into the system, we need to analyse and verify the existing system through a broad professional public debate, both in terms of funding and in terms of setting out the conditions for the recognition of rights and their height from pension and disability insurance. Even PIZ opposes the proposed method of raising the contribution rates as it estimates that such an unsuspecting unilateral intervention would harm the pension fund. There is no doubt that we in the party are actually advocating genuine solidarity, solidarity with the elderly, raising pensions and generally improving the status of the elderly in all aspects of their lives. But in doing so, we remain realistic and honest with those whose rights we stand for, so we do not want to make and make empty promises like some others to whom it is clear in advance that they will not be able to fulfill them. For example, the lowest pension of a thousand euros or a Christmas card for each pensioner is 500 euros, which has been advertised on large posters across Slovenia. Our proposals for free transport for older people, up from 57 per cent to 63.5 per cent, which brings pensions up by almost 10 per cent, have been fulfilled. Therefore, we also point to the proposaler's misleading statements that tomorrow's pensioners will no longer be hungry if today's employers pay more for their pension bills. This is simply not true, since the current pensioners will have nothing to do with the increase in the amount of their contributions, as this will not affect the amount of their calculated pension. The big problem of today's policy is the unfulfilled promises of EPP propaganda, including in this House, which undermines confidence in the system, in values, in the individual, so we should not be surprised that people are disappointed, angry and protesting. So let me re-use the old Chinese saying: “When there is trust, you don’t need proof. When there is no trust, no evidence shall help.” We won't support the SAB novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Contributions has been completed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Third defence of the proposal for a law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products for end-use on the market in the Republic of Slovenia, under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Today we have before us a third review of the Law banning the placing on the market of certain plastic single-use products in the Republic of Slovenia. In the SAB party, we want to transpose part of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order as a proposal with co-signatures, LMŠ, SD and Levico. Among other things, we are driven by the desire to reduce pollution and pollution by plastics in the seas and oceans. The bottom of the Adriatic Sea, especially the northern Adriatic, is one of the seas most burdened and polluted with plastic. Even though our sea is small, the influence of Slovenia is no less decisive. Microplastics is a pollutant that has long been overlooked, which we are reminded of both professional and civil society and young people. Our statements were confirmed and argued by guests whom we invited to discuss the law on the home work body, young researcher of the Franc Miklosic Gymnasium from Ljutomer. They presented the alarming results of the pilot study and stressed that several directives addressing plastic should be adopted. Microplastics pass through water into aquatic organisms, into the food cycle, and eventually into all living things. They were confirmed in 2018 and in 2020 they discovered microplastics even in the placenta of the embryo. In doing so, scientists are united. These particles may damage the child’s development in the long term. Among waste lying on the shores and swimming in the seas are the most disposable plastic products, usually for short-term use. It is logical and correct to restrict or prohibit their placing on the market and thus use them. In the event of a disease pandemic, covid further demonstrated the importance of the use of such products, products, packagings, packagings, which provided consumers with food to their homes and drinks and food. We were proactive in the Sab party. We have drafted a law aimed at preventing the generation of waste for single and short-term use that would reduce environmental impact and consequently have a positive impact on human health. The bill thus transposes part of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, which must be implemented by all Member States. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expired on 3 July and the Government was also late due to the failure of the European Union to draw up all the guidelines and regulations. On 19 August, the Regulation was adopted. The law that we are considering today prohibits the placing on the market in the Republic of Slovenia of all products made of oxodegradable plastic and the following most commonly used products or products for single use: cutlery, plates, straws, lime sticks, mixing sticks for drinks, balloon fastening sticks and balloon support, food containers from an expanded polyester. After first reading in the National Assembly, the bill was given the green light that it was suitable for further consideration. In the meantime, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments of the competent professional services, we have completed and amended the proposal for a law. We have supplemented or amended the title of the law, aligned the terms used with the terms used in the Regulation and the Directive, supplemented the articles, made minor amendments to the nomotechnical nature. Before you, honourable Members, there is a proposal for a third reading law. Protection of the environment and nature, sustainable use of resources, promotion of the development of the circular economy and, last but not least, the protection of human health and the health of still unborn children are values that we all advocate. We therefore welcome and thank all Members and Members for their support for our joint efforts so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. We have before us a law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products; this is said to be a fundamental amendment, which is also by the Ministry of Environment and Space and then proposed by the Government that the basic title of this law does not prohibit sales in accordance with the Regulation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia initially did not support the so-called Proposal for a Law banning the sale of disposable plastic products submitted to the National Assembly 11. 6. 2021. Following the amendments tabled by the applicants, the proposal for a bill of terminology was amended in both the title of the law and the individual articles, measures and legal changes in the direction to prohibit the placing on the market of certain plastic single-use products which would constitute a transfer of this measure to the prohibition provided for in the Directive, as the directive also requires. In the first proposal, the bill, as I have already said, called for a ban on the sale of plastic products, in which the Government could not agree, since the time limit for placing on the market and the prohibition on the sale of these plastic products for single use was not equal. In the event that the law prohibits the sale of these products, manufacturers would not be able to sell the stocks and the prohibition itself would not be in line with the Directive, nor would it be with the measures of other Member States with which we perform on the common internal market. The first proposal also identified some of the concepts that were poorly defined, the terms that had been misapplied, which, of course, was subsequently corrected and eliminated with the amendments. With the amendments that have already been tabled to remedy these shortcomings or that have also changed the title of the law, all these shortcomings that the Government has opposed have been eliminated and we do not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament and Yuri Lepo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, nice greetings, Members, colleagues and colleagues! Our planet is under pressure caused by a rapidly growing population. Globally, it is estimated that we will need 50 percent more food and 45 percent more energy in less than 20 years. However, with such increasing consumption, the available resources remain limited. Every year almost 15 tonnes of raw materials are consumed per person in the European Union, while every citizen of the European Union on average generates more than 4.5 tonnes of waste in the same period. Almost half of this waste ends up in landfills. It's such a waste that it's just to be imagined. The transition to the circular economy is geared towards re-use, repair, restoration and recycling of existing raw materials and products. What used to be considered waste is now a source. This is followed by a proposal for a law that we have today on sent-off benches aimed at reducing the use of plastic packaging in a way that either prohibits the use of short-term products that are not intended for reuse or provides cost-effective recycling. We agree with this in the Group of Non-Related Members because it would only reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, in particular on the water environment, and consequently have a positive impact on human health. This would follow the sustainable resource use strategy, nature conservation, the circular economy. Non-aligned Members advocate structural changes in waste management, including the collection, transport, processing and disposal of waste, including monitoring of waste management. Effective waste management can greatly contribute to resource efficiency and are essential for meeting the needs of society and ensuring its further development. In these changes, we are particularly committed to reducing the occurrence of wastes made from materials that cannot be recycled and have a long period of decomposition. Such single-use or short-term product groups should, in our view, be removed from the market and replaced with more sustainable and safe alternative products such as paper, cardboard, wood, clay, cellulose fibres and also sugar cane, maize starch and other biodegradable materials which are more environmentally friendly and affordable. Since I've been working on forestry all my life, I'd like to put wood in particular. We are known to have more than 60 per cent of Slovenia's surfaces grown with forests. We can use wood as a raw material in many products and have it in abundance. Due to the possibility of multiple and varied uses and organic processing, wood is the ideal material for accelerated transition to the circular economy. At the same time, we point out that simply replacing plastic products for single use, such as paper or wood products, will not be enough to achieve the objectives set, but we must also change our daily consumer habits. At the same time, progress and movement will also need to be made in the collection, transport, disposal and storage of waste plastic products, recycling and reuse of waste packaging and further processing, processing and incineration of waste packaging. In this direction we started thinking years ago when we banned free plastic carrier bags at the grocery store, in order to prevent the overall increase in packaging production and to achieve a reduction in plastic bags consumption, as statistics showed that in Slovenia we dump as many as 30 million bags each year during waste. Finally, I'd like to mention two more. Firstly, I propose that when we adopt certain specific and radical changes to a wide range of entrepreneurs, which may have a significant impact on the production processes in the company, in order to establish a longer transitional period by implementing the law, so that Slovenian entrepreneurs will also have more time to adapt production activities to new legislation. Secondly, I would point out that both acts, both the bill under consideration today and the government regulation banning the placing of plastic products for single use on the market, refer to the transposition of the provisions of the same European Directive into the national legal order, which raises the question of the relationship between those acts. We therefore propose that, in the future, the same content of the European directives should be transposed into only one national act, either in law or in a regulation, to prevent duplication of content on the one hand and to increase the transparency and clarity of legal regulation on the other. Otherwise, we will, of course, support the unconnected Members of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. We drown in plastic, which is more on our commercial shelves from day to day at the expense of mass consumption. We are aware that plastics is much deeper and does not just cover accessories, bottles and candles. Plastic, for example, also hangers, scissors, towers, printers, computers, toothbrushes, and more. Among others are detergents, powders, PVC cleaners. On November 1st, we witnessed again the mass lighting of plastic candles, where we Slovenians are even on top of the lit plastics, and the alternatives are still foreign to us. On the other hand, we go on behalf of maintaining the environment from classical plastic candles to electric candles, which is even worse. It saddens us that today it rarely brings back a working bottle to the store and also buys it in a glass bottle, because most cannot wear heavy glass because it is also a greater possibility of breaking it. The separation of waste in the ecological islands poses a major problem to many Slovenes. We are all aware that plastic is not healthy, as well as a taste of drink, food is different than if you drink it, it eats from glass glasses or plates. Plastic products are easier and more practical for us as regards transport, storage of food residues. We also find it more difficult to refer to wood cutlery that somehow doesn't suit us. A step in the right direction is that plastic packaging counts even if you go, say, for the food you then take home. As a society, we need to be aware that plastic is everywhere and that we've already stuck the planet with plastic because it's a thousand years apart. Wider. Discarded plastic is a global problem because it causes great environmental damage and at the same time represents a lot of lost millions for the industry because it is not recycled. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be constantly informed of the harmful, irreparable consequences of untapped work. The remains of plastic can also be found in food, but rarely, we must worry about it if we care about our health. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that single and short-term plastic products should be replaced as soon as possible with alternative and affordable products. The fact is, people buy what they see on a sales shelf, if they don't, they take something else. The important thing is that in the end everyone is satisfied, both buyers and sellers. After all, nature will be grateful that there will be less plastic waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Leon Merjasec will be next in line to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Appropriate waste management is still essential to prevent any debris. In particular, plastic waste is subject to the general measures and objectives of the Union and the objectives of the European Plastic Strategy to ensure that all plastic packaging placed on the Union market is reusable or easily recycled. Since plastic products pose a high risk to the conservation of drinking water quality and consequently pose a health risk to humans and aquatic organisms, it is important that EU Directive 2019/904 is brought to Slovenian legal order as soon as possible. The proposal seeks to reduce the use of single-use plastic products which are wholly or partly made of plastic and are usually intended only for single or short-term use and then discarded. The aim of the law is to reduce discarded packaging and to follow the principle of circular economy strategy, sustainable use of resources, nature conservation and environmental protection. It follows the principles of preventing the occurrence of waste for single or short-term use made from materials which cannot be recycled and have a sufficient period of degradation. The solutions themselves include structural changes in waste management. The law seeks to exclude single-use or short-term product groups from the market which can be replaced by alternative products which are also affordable. To achieve an ambitious and sustainable reduction in the use of these disposable plastic products, we will support the bill in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will be the representative of the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Plastic packaging is the most common source of pollution of the world's rivers and oceans. It ends up there every year with 100 million tons, representing three quarters of all the waste we create on the planet. Although consumer environmental awareness has increased slightly over the last period, more plastic products are produced each year, so we must no longer allow products that we use for just a few seconds to pollute our planet for centuries. About half of all manufactured plastics in the world are intended for single-use products. In Slovenia, it is estimated that 35 kilograms of plastic is produced for single use per inhabitant, which makes us 20th place in the world. The thought leap to a better world, this is a plastic-free world, is necessary for both us and our descendants as well as for animals, plants and the environment. As a member of the EU and a signatory to international environmental agreements and arrangements, the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to adopting all the necessary legal acts and strategic documents and to carrying out all the necessary activities in which we will put our actions within the framework of universal constraints in which our planet can still maintain its reconstruction capabilities. By 3 July 2021, the European Directive on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products should therefore be implemented in our legal order. Since the Government has not done so, the opposition has tabled a proposed law that follows the requirements of the directive. Of course, by adopting this law, our work will not be finished. The Directive, partially transposed as well as other European environmental legislation, contains three key years; 2025, 2029 and 2030. By 2025, Member States have to collect 77 per cent of bottles separately for recycling purposes, and bottles will have to contain at least 25 per cent of recycled plastics, and up to 65 per cent of waste and 50 per cent of plastic packaging will need to be recycled. By 2029 and 2030, countries have to collect 90 per cent of bottles separately; bottles placed on the market will have to contain 30 per cent of recycled plastics and 70 per cent of packaging waste and 55 per cent of plastic packaging will be recycled. The method of calculating the recycling rate has also been changed. If currently separately collected plastic quotas are considered recycled, in the future they will only count as recycled quantities delivered to recycling plants. These objectives are, according to experience from some European countries, the easiest to achieve, if not the only possible, by introducing a bailout system. In Europe, this system has 10 countries established, 10 countries have a legal basis for the introduction of this system, and seven countries have an open public debate on this. The adoption of the proposed law will therefore only be the first step of many, which, in accordance with European legislation, will be in line with human responsibility for the environment, in line with the care of our craftsmen. Therefore, in the LMŠ we predict that we will continue to be active in the legislative proposals that will further improve our living environment. The first step will be to open a public debate on the introduction of a bailout system in the area of packaging waste collection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! The current quantity of plastic produced, used and discarded has adverse effects on health and the environment. The consequences of today’s customs, once used with plastic packaging and then discarded, can be seen all over the world. The shift to sustainable alternatives is crucial due to the strong burden of the environment with plastic products. The proposed law limits the placing on the market of plastic products. The key solution to the law, however, is to relieve the environment and prevent the production of new plastic products. The aim of the law is to reduce the use of plastic packaging in a way that either prohibits the use of short-term products not designed for reuse or provides cost-effective recycling. This would prevent and reduce the impact of plastic products on the environment and consequently have a positive impact on our health or health of all people. Legal solutions include structural changes in waste management. The law seeks to exclude single-use or short-term product groups that can be replaced by alternative products from the market. The adoption of the law would consequently encourage the use of easily accessible and more sustainable alternative products, innovative solutions for more sustainable business models, alternative products for re-use and use of replacement materials. The proposal for a law was supported by the parent’s working body. In the parliamentary group, we have been supporting the bill throughout the legislative process and will do so today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Natasa Sukič, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In September 2017, we proposed the adoption of recommendations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the transport of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other plastic containers. We have proposed that the use of plastic bags with sub-legal acts be prohibited and that Slovenia, at EU level, actively advocates the ban on the use of plastic bags, as well as the use of environmentally friendly materials. Following the example of France, we also proposed a ban on the transport of food and drink in plastic glasses, on plastic plates and in other disposable plastic containers, including plastic appliances. We have also proposed a ban on the sale of all cosmetic products containing microplastics and that the Government should lay down strict rules for the handling of microplastics as a raw material for the further manufacture of plastic products with a view to reducing the amount of microplastics in the natural environment as much as possible. The reason for the submission of the above-mentioned proposal for recommendations was the Government's delay in transposing the European Directive to reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags. When the Government finally transposed the directive because of the European Commission's threats with financial sanctions, it only transposed the minimum requirements for restricting plastic. With the exception of the immediate ban on the use of plastic carrier bags on the market and the ban on microplastic cosmetic products, our recommendations were adopted by 85 votes to none, but the then government coalition of SMC, SD and Desus parties had not implemented a single point in those recommendations by the end of its term. Following was the government of the LMŠ, SAB, SD, SMC and Desus coalition, which we also supported in Levica when it was appointed. A few months after the appointment of the Government, the National Assembly adopted the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment once. In Levica, we have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a position that has led to the strictest possible market restrictions on products which are difficult to recycle and where separate collection would result in disproportionately high costs. The suspension of the sale of light carrier bags, which was foreseen for 2019, was also extended by the suspension of the sale of filters for tobacco products made from disposable plastics. For plastic containers, food and pots, Slovenia is expected to draw up a plan in 2019 to prohibit them, and gradually plans to ban all other single-use plastic products and fishing gears provided for in the Commission proposal, so that they can be phased out by 2030. Our amendment was adopted, without a vote against – and nothing happened again. In 2019 neither plastic bags nor other disposable plastic products were banned. The restrictions laid down in the European Directive were imposed, and the Government only confirmed the non-binding code for the reduction of sales of carrier bags adopted by some traders. And so, in four years of effort, we are still at the same point. We have practically rewritten the Government's position on the prohibition of plastic bags and other single-use plastic products to defend it at EU level. We have written down that in 2019 and 2020 we will ban most single-use plastics. Nothing happened. On the contrary, because of the coronation, the consumption of these products has broken all the records. The only solution we have left is to adopt a law banning the sale of plastic products for single use. It's the only way to stop the polarization of our environment, rivers, seas and oceans with plastic that destroys animal species. Because of the cold consumption, it's contaminated the entire planet with plastic. Scientists estimate this presence of plastic everywhere in the environment as a milestone for the beginning of a new age of plastic for some new geological age of our planet. It's time for this to stop. Today we are again counting on the support of all political parties, because the legal ban on the sale of plastic products for single use is simply necessary. In Levi, we will unanimously support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The main solutions to the law are the transposition of the European Directive on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products which should be transposed into national law by the European Union by 3 July 2021, and the prohibition of plastic products and products made of oxo-degradable plastics for single or short-term use, for which there are already affordable alternatives on the market. The law lays down a fine of EUR 100 to 50,000 for a legal person or independent entrepreneur who places such products on the market or on the market, and EUR 500 to 5,000 for their responsible person. The proposal does not provide for financial implications for the state budget. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats were initially detained until the bill was proposed. Given that the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order by law would not be appropriate, since the Environmental Protection Act stipulates that such material should be specified by regulation by the Government by a regulation. However, given that the proposal for a law is in line with the amendments, we no longer have any reason to oppose it in New Slovenia, since the bill is in line with matters which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. Thus, in the part of the proposal, the law lays down what is governed by the regulation and what is the law or to determine the termination of the application of the regulation in certain matters. The amendments to the amendment tabled by the opposition opposition groups to Article 3 which states that the Government shall specify in more detail the content of the products placed on the market, as it would otherwise be too difficult to amend the law every time for each item to be added to the ban. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are aware that the law will not solve the problem of pollution, but we are also aware that plastic packaging pollution is a major environmental problem that requires immediate solutions. Since we are morally committed to moderation and self-restraint in the design and development of today's world, we will support the proposal of this law by Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Today, for the third time, the proposal for a law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products for single use in the Republic of Slovenia, which would restrict the use of plastic packaging in order to prevent its use in short-term products. The use of plastics in industrial production has been a major step forward for mankind, let us not forget that plastics, because of its properties, makes it possible to maintain food for a long time, nor does it leave visible traces, is light, resistant to low temperatures and its production is extremely cheap. On top of that, it can be recycled to a large extent. Despite strong interest and rapid technological development, we have not yet found material that is comparable to plastic by all these qualities. It is therefore clear that the use of plastic in a product is still meaningful and difficult to replace. Nevertheless, when visiting a wide range of local river basins or looking at photos of the world’s oceans, we can quickly find that plastic recycling is not effective enough. We are therefore convinced that we must all work together to reduce the use of plastic. This will be the easiest to achieve in those short-term products which do not depend on exactly all the above-mentioned characteristics of plastic and for which appropriate alternatives already exist on the market. In other words, if we cannot afford a complete transition to alternative packaging materials in the food industry, this does not apply to single-use products. It is mainly plastic plates, cutlery, straws, plastic cups and so on. Finally, there are already such forms of single-use products on the market, which have far less negative environmental effects at a possible landing in nature. We are concerned about the quantity of plastic produced, used and discarded, which, after being in nature, has a proven negative impact on human health. We also agree with the European Union's guidelines, which aim to increase the ability to recycle plastic packaging, to limit the quantity in water of released microplastics, as well as to replace single-use plastic products with suitable sustainable alternatives. Amendments to the legislation restricting the supply of plastic products on the market need to be carefully pursued. In view of the explanations given in the draft law by the applicant, we can say that the solutions proposed represent an appropriate balance between the protection of the environment and the requirement to adapt economic operators. The implementation of this law will prohibit the actual placing on the market of short-term plastic products, which will undoubtedly increase the use of sustainable products, such as those already well represented on the sales shelves of Slovenian trades. On the basis of these facts, we will therefore be pleased to support the proposal for a law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products for single use in the Republic of Slovenia in the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We throw 300 million tons of plastic a year into the world's seas and oceans. So we live in a world facing a plastic pollution crisis. In doing so, we must be aware that as much as 99 per cent of the input raw materials for plastic production are fossil fuels, with a 50 per cent share of waste being products for single use, a short-term use is said. We must be aware that the use of single-use plastic products generates only consumption; always at hand, quickly for use, prepacked, even so that there is no need for employees in stores, on the way after each other, at events, and from home, and for quick and carefree preparation without late cleaning. The production and use of plastic is an environmental and health problem. We need to be aware that for one kilogram of plastic we use 10 kilowatt hours of energy. In Slovenia, about 60 000 tonnes of plastic waste are produced annually, about half of them in service activities and 5 percent in households. Through our thumb, we can estimate that we are spending about 600 million kilowatt hours of energy and that the amount of plastic we import is not taken into account at all. Today we have before us a third review of the law banning the placing on the market of certain plastic products for single use in the Republic of Slovenia, which we have tabled in the SAB as proponents with the signatures of the parties LMŠ, SD and Levice in order to transpose part of the European directive into the Slovenian legal order and so that implementation is not left to the regulation alone. Let me remind you that the law was introduced before the government adopted the regulation. The bill was given a green light for further consideration in the National Assembly in July and October this year, for which we thank everyone very much. He got it because Members of the National Assembly recognized that plastic in the oceans and seas is also the problem of Slovenia. The problem with Slovenia is because plastic enters the world's seas and oceans; into our watercourses, our rivers, our streams and our lakes. The problem is that in the watercourses it dissolves into microparticles. The problem is because through water organisms and groundwater, which normally monitors surface water levels and flows, passes into our food chain. We can't close our eyes before a big problem. Microplastics were discovered by scientists in the human body and even in the embryo’s placenta. And her presence is certainly not beneficial; on the contrary, it is harmful. Let's not forget, the amount of plastic in the environment has increased 3.5 times over the last 30 years. Our exposure has also increased for this ratio. Thus, we destroy our food resources and clean drinking water, and we destroy the animal world. The covid epidemic has further alerted us to the extent to which plastic products are used for single use. The necessary changes can therefore only be made together, strong, connected and united. That is why the Council of the European Union has taken ambitious measures and identified products that represent approximately half of all waste in the sea by number. These are products of broad consumption which are rapidly discarded after single use for the purpose for which they are intended. We are talking about wafers, tableware, plates, straws, mixing sticks for drinks, balloon fastening sticks and balloon support, food containers from expanded plastics and all products from oxo-degradable plastics. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we therefore have a historic opportunity to cut through this circle, speed up the transformation of the economy and change consumer habits. We strengthen the awareness that plastic products come from nothing and also disappear into nothing. They occur when oil and natural gas flow from the depths of thousands of meters below the earth’s surface. Together, we lay the foundations for the circular economy, follow the “zero waste” strategy, design products and products so that we can repair and reuse them and recycle them effectively. In the SAB party, of course, we support the end of the use of these products and we will be pleased to support the law, which we have also proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Pacific Ocean is one of the richest ecosystems in the world. There are millions of different kinds of life in it. But it also contains one of the largest fingerprints of mankind, the so-called GPGP island – almost a continent of garbage. The floating matter, which consists of various products and comes from practically all over the world, is large for three Frances. And all this is our legacy. In Slovenia, the waste disposal culture has completely changed over several decades. If our generations were still fueling waste in the fields and throwing waste into the pits, we had reached a high level of awareness through the education of younger generations of waste separation, and at the same time we were awakened by the awareness of cleaning up black landfills. This greatly improved the picture we saw when we walked through the woods. Of course, we can make huge progress here. If we have so far reduced the amount of waste in nature and moved it to more orderly landfills, we need to talk today about reducing landfills. Therefore, today's adoption will bring about a new milestone. Although plastic products for single use in stores are full, we will still do a lot by banning the supply of certain products on commercial shelves. But this ban will not do any significant damage to our stay. Alternatives already exist, we just have to decide for them. Because in the Desus Group we advocate leaving our children and grandchildren a better world than we have received, we will also support this proposal today. In the future, however, we will have to add others to the list of banned plastic products until we find some alternatives for all products that will make our future more polluted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Sorry, less contaminated. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups and I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday, 25 November, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for works in the risk scales of fire extinguishers and employed in volunteer gassil units and gassil links. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. At its 18th session, on 28 October, the draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I therefore now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	Well, once again a nice greeting to all present, especially you, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly! Slovenian firefighters are our heroes, I'd say, because they sacrifice themselves for our people every day. Even before the epidemic, Slovenia should show them more gratitude and support, especially in these times, as they were also in the first battle lines in the battle against the epidemic. It is a crime that voluntary firefighters have been deprived of an allowance to work in risky situations, even though as true heroes, they have contributed equally to the health and safety of our country. Appendices during the Coronavirus epidemic were distributed in such a way, over the length and length of the line. A lot of people were getting extras not to say a present, even though he certainly didn't deserve it. Some have not done enough to defend the nation before the epidemic, but they have received large supplements, and on the other hand they have not received those who truly deserve them. This proposal does well to correct what has, after an accident or perhaps even deliberately, been forgotten. Nor is it a large sum of money, about half a million euros, which would not be very well known in these strong budgets. However, it would be well - known for volunteer firefighters not only financially but also as a symbolic gesture for their efforts and sacrifices. In the Slovenian National Party, we supported the opposition proposal of the law on the Committee, because we are concerned about the welfare of firefighters and not about political games. The proposal of the List of Marjan Šarc was a good one. And since we welcome all the good proposals in the Slovenian National Party, we have supported our or your case as always. It is interesting, however, that they have abstained from this support with the Social Democrats, although they are supposed to work so well with the opposition’s proponents – at least so they say. How they will rule together as they wish, it is not clear to me that there is no agreement between them in such laws. In the Slovenian National Party, we will always support people who do good to our nation and sacrifice themselves daily for their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jožef Lenart, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word, Vice President. Greetings to all guests as well! On the table, we have a proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for work in a risky situation for professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades. The Group of Members and Members of Members of the LMŠ, the Left and the Non-Aligned Groups shall be 14th 9. 2021 The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for work in a risky situation to professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades. The bill seeks to include professional firefighters and workers in professional sails in voluntary firefighting companies and fire brigades in an extended range of beneficiaries to supplement work in risky situations. These risk situations are, for example, epidemics such as the outbreak of coronavirus in 2020 and 2021, natural disasters, demonstrations, work in the area of the threat of terrorist attacks with biological agents, work in the field of war and others. While the applicants claim and refer to the recently declared epidemic, to certain irregularities in the remuneration of firefighters for working in those situations and to remedy these errors by means of a proposal for a law. It follows that a reckoning and payment be made for those who have somehow fallen out, and that for the same work done by the firefighter evenly and justly be rewarded. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the bill, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the proposal to be inappropriate. However, the reason is that more fair system arrangements are being drawn up on the basis of negotiations with representative public sector unions in a different and fairer regulation of this supplement, and therefore the interventional legal action in the area of wage regulation is inappropriate for firefighters as well as public sector employees before the conclusion of the negotiations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the matter, i.e. a bill of law, is well-intentioned, but of course also in the light of the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, is inconsistent and superficial; namely, the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly says that, from a legal point of view, the law proposal is inconsistent with the legal order in force. The anti-nomy or contradiction is cited and it is therefore envisaged that the adoption of a bill within the legal order would lead to contradictions as a result of the mutual non-compliance of laws. At the same time, the problem is also resolved by the Government and it must be recognised that if the case were regulated as proposed by the Ministry, the allowance for work in the risk situations of firefighters would be defined as a nominal amount more fair than in the case proposed by the proposer. This would therefore mean that all firefighters would also be awarded the same flat rate and not on the basis of the employee's salary during the so-called state of emergency. If this supplement were therefore the same in the nominal amount, this would also mean additional motivation and team unity in the fire lines. In October, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly rejected the proposal and closed the case. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for work in a risky situation for professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will be next in line to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Nicely greeted! Thank you, Madam President, for your word. We're all the same before the law. But there are some areas where this equality has prevailed in bureaucratic complications. The proposal of the Law on the Payment of Supplements in Risk Situations to Called Firefighters and Employees in Voluntary Firefighters' Companies, the LMŠ, Levica and the unrelated did not want to politicise because it was a modest sum of money and because we didn't even think that anyone would vote against it and we made a mistake. With the bill we wanted to eliminate the unequal treatment of professional firefighters in the payment of so-called Coronary Supplements. Employees in public institutions, i.e. in professional fire brigades, were entitled to an emergency allowance and not employed in voluntary firefighting companies. They are not subject to a collective contract for the public sector, and this is an essential issue that we wanted to address and resolve, but not. Since this is simply because of the question of where you work, it is absolutely unfair, we have introduced a law that would allow everyone to receive the same payment for identical work. But no. Policy was also more important than content on this issue. The law fell on the Defence Committee with a score of 7-7. In addition to the opposition of the Government, therefore, it was our belief that only political conviction and blind follow-up were needed to vote against it. We would also liken this law to add the same work; the same and strategic public service in the public interest with a few hundred thousand euros would eliminate the inequality created solely by the status of the employer. One of the doctors received a tenth of the total estimated amount from the crown of the supplements, which was actually more than a hundred firefighters and firefighters for poultry. It is difficult to justify such a decision, especially in the light of the fact that when you call 112, when you arrive red vehicles with blue lights and heart and brave firefighters and firefighters, it is completely irrelevant whether they are voluntary or professional, employed in a public service or in a voluntary fire company. They're here when you call them and when you need them. They only come because you need them. Nothing else matters. They're wearing their head for sale for you. And when we had the opportunity to correct the wrong done because of formalism, bureaucracy, perhaps even stubbornness, some have decided, as they have decided, to leave it to them. However, we will not accept formalistic reasons, such as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. It was the first law-reading. During the duration of the committee we have eliminated almost all concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. The opinion of the State Council – in the State Council, I was in the debate, not one of the saints answered the debate, but it was only a vote. The government’s opinion – they already know everything and other things. In addition to the rest of the load, I will not accept the promise of ensuring that the issue will be addressed systematically. We know what that means, and we know how Minister Tonin has already promised systemic solutions for professional firefighters and additives in last year, but there was nothing. They had to strike to get what belonged to them. This kind of behavior is not credible for me, and I can't believe it. Then the most interesting explanation is that government negotiations are under way with representative unions. You don't really know what you're talking about! The collective contract for the public sector is not applicable to professional firefighters in voluntary firefighting companies! So you can't negotiate with them either. The systemic solution would be somewhere else, so that they would be paid for what they are doing from a moral and ethical point of view. And we're gonna re-introduce the marriage. But I would like to thank those members of the committee who supported the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Samo Bevk, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The proposal for a bill on the payment of the allowance for parts in risky situations to professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades, prepared in the LMŠ, did not and did not support the Social Democrats. And the reasons are as follows. First time. The public sector employees' co-module allowances are governed by a collective contract for the public sector. This category includes professional firefighters employed in all public institutions. This does not include firefighters employed in a professional core society, nor firefighters employed in a fire brigade, nor firefighters employed in companies. Responsibilities for work areas are laid down by the founders. At the time of the epidemic, the State provided funds through the founders, i.e. local communities, to pay covid the addition to the forces operating in the local protection and resolution system. However, the mayor shall decide on the allocation of these funds. Another time. All volunteer firefighters who were called upon to intervene during the epidemic received covid supplement for the duration of the intervention on the basis of intervention laws. The only difference is that firefighters employed in public institutions, professional core companies and companies did not receive this supplement because only volunteers were covered by the intervention law. However, firefighters in these public institutions received an allowance on the basis of a collective agreement and firefighters employed in professional sails could request a supplement from local communities. Third time. Social Democrats oppose the proposed solution so that firefighters who did not carry out operational firefighting tasks will also receive the supplement. The work of professional firefighters in professional cores in voluntary firefighting units in the Republic of Slovenia is carried out by about 100 individuals and individuals in six voluntary firefighting companies and several firefighting associations. Notwithstanding the different arrangements and the legal basis, the nature and scope of their work do not differ from those of professional firefighters. Intervention laws to limit and mitigate the effects of the virus pandemic have created imbalances within the wider professional group, because they did not provide for the payment of allowances for work in the risk situation for professional firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units, thereby placing them in an unequal position compared to other professional firefighters. If we want to resolve the situation raised by the proponents through the proposed law, we believe that we need to go the other way and not interfere with the public sector collective agreement. We believe that it is necessary to amend the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic, or to solve this problem in a separate law by not interfering with the collective agreement, but by fixing the amount of the supplement for firefighters employed in the professional sails of firefighting companies as for firefighters carrying out their tasks in the same voluntary firefighting society. Fortunately, the epidemic of such dimensions by 2020 has been dealt with mainly on paper, unfortunately this has become a reality since March 2020. Weaknesses have been shown in various areas and will need to be brought into law on the basis of experience in the way that Slovenia will be better prepared in the future in the event of future epidemics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In Levica, of course, we support that so-called crown supplements are received not only by professional firefighters or by pure volunteers on the other hand, but also by their colleagues who are still employed in so-called professional sails. It is only fair that the same work is equally recognized, whether we discuss wages or various supplements, including those presented by the government of Janez Janša. But this has not happened, at least not in past PKP packages. The government simply forgot about these professionals employed in voluntary structures. Moreover, it also rejects the initiative of its coalition majority to deal with this – to deal with this proposal, which we are giving a good-bye at today’s session. It's sad. It's pretty sad. Especially since he does not want to say directly that it is either saving on the shoulders of firefighters or overplaying a prestigious fight. Instead, it refers to formalism and intervention by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, although it has given a strong opinion, but which is dealt with as glass, was only the first consideration and it has already been brought to the table of amendments, which would largely respond to these legal concerns and would leave open the possibility for further consideration to arrive at what would be necessary. But no, all the arguments, all the convincing – bob against the wall. Maybe we shouldn't even be surprised at that. Firefighters in this country are the biggest solidarity organization we have. The government of Janez Janša and Janez Janša do not like and acknowledge solidarity. This is also demonstrated by Janšev's loyal adjective Matthew Tonin at the summit of the Ministry of Defence, which also covers the field of firefighters in relation to the Trade Firefighters Union, who have been working for social dialogue since the beginning of this government's mandate, and wants to be played by the Ministry of Defence, drive the thirsty across the water and what these terms are. In the end, they had to threaten and engage even in union strike action; firefighters of all people; those whom we call for help when the roof burns over our heads, or when the floods flood infest our cellars. Clearly, the government of Janez Janša is unaware of this and has no hearing for both volunteers and their professional colleagues or those who work in between. All she's interested in a few months before the elections is the image she creates in trying to win the cities of power again, in order to actually recognize and reward the honest work done with a fair pay – that's not. Rather, it exposes funds to unfairly individual groups, even to individuals close to it, it protects organised crime and organised crime networks and treats the whole country and its systems as a vessel that needs to be looted while it is still being looted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! One opposition party submitted a proposal for the Act on the payment of an allowance for work in risky situations to professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades for the sole purpose of self-promotion. Although the purpose of the proposal is to hear nicely, the award of firefighters is in the proposed manner totally impossible and contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. What's this all about? The proposer proposed that the allowance for work in risky situations, as received by firefighters employed in the public sector, should also be paid from the state budget to professional firefighters and employees in voluntary fire brigades and fire brigades, and financed by municipalities. In doing so, the applicant did not take into account the fact that the municipalities, as the funders of their salaries, have been able to pay an allowance for work in risky situations to firefighters in the professional centre of voluntary firefighting units, and a lot of the municipalities with a fire-fighting professional core have done so, the rest of them, I believe they will continue to follow. Fire safety is the original task of local self-government, i.e. municipalities. The municipality, which organises and finances a compulsory public service, is therefore also responsible for financing possible supplements. The municipality may decide that these allowances will also be higher than those laid down in the public sector collective agreement. The proposer of this law obviously gives nothing to local self-government and to the division of powers between the congregation and the state. Let me illustrate today's proposal in plastic. It's like someone called Tone, an employee of Company A, and then Tonet's friend would go to Company B and ask the boss to pay the Tonet Company B award. Let me repeat: Tone is employed at Company A. You're still wondering who's causing the confusion in the country? It is clear that the applicant does not really care about firefighters and the proper regulation of their situation, but much more about their own promotion. On the parental committee, even the nonsense of the proposal was perfectly summed up by the mayor, who confirmed the payment of the allowance for work in risky situations in her municipality. She asked why the law, if the current regulations already allowed supplements. Does this mean that some firefighters, such as ours, would get double payments? Christian Democrats are strongly aware that firefighters are indispensable. Their proper status and equipment must be taken care of at all times, which we have been working on since the start of this government. We believe in action, so we have already proposed in the National Assembly and have also accepted uniform insurance for all firefighters who are significantly burdening municipal budgets. In Novi Slovenije we also supported the one-off cash assistance received by all fire companies across Slovenia. Together with coalition partners, we have also proposed an amendment to the new Income Act, which will significantly improve net income for firefighters who are active for more than 10 years. It is also very encouraging to note that the Ministry of Defence actively conducts negotiations with the fire brigades, where they jointly regulate the normative part of the collective agreement. I'm glad he won his mind on the parental committee. Together, both coalition and some opposition Members, we have rejected a proposal that does not bring solutions, but introduces only confusion and unrest. Finally, allow me to congratulate citizens and citizens in the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats on the national holiday, Rudolf Maistra Day. We want all Slovenes and Slovenes to imitate the conscious Slovenian who carried anchored tightly in his heart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues! I'm not going to talk about Tonet, who works for company A and B, but I'm going to say specifically why this law was intended and correct. The main objective of the proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for work in a risky situation for professional firefighters and employees in voluntary firefighting units and fire brigades lays down the legal basis for providing the means to pay the allowance for work in a risky situation for firefighters and employees employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units and firefighting units and have been overlooked in past legislation. The intervention law to limit and mitigate the effects of the covid-19 pandemic has created imbalances within the wider professional group, because they did not provide for the payment of allowances for work in a risky situation for professional firefighters employed in the professional cores of volunteer fire brigades and fire brigades, thus placing them in an unequal position compared to other professional firefighters. The proposal sought to remedy the situation of professional firefighters who performed public service in voluntary firefighting companies during the epidemic. They are not subject to a collective contract for the public sector under which professional firefighters received an allowance for work in risky situations during the epidemic. There are six such societies in Slovenia and the financial consequences of the implementation of the law have been estimated at around half a million euros. In the SAB Group, we supported the proposal for a law on the home body, which is the Defence Committee. We believe that all those who were in the first battle line during the covid-19 epidemic should be entitled to receive supplements such as doctors, nurses, police officers, soldiers and firefighters employed in the fire brigades. It saddens us that the government has forgotten to pay the firefighters' allowances, employees of fire liaisons and societies. In addition, the coalition did not support the bill and thus showed that money in the state treasury was more than clearly lacking. As I have already mentioned, in the SAB Group, we supported the proposal for a law on the home labour body, but because the proposal for a law did not receive sufficient support, the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the proposal for a law on the payment of an allowance for work in a risky situation to professional firefighters and employees in voluntary firefighting units and fire extinguishers on the home labour body did not receive the required majority of votes, but not because they did not wish to pay the professional firefighters an appropriate allowance for working in a risky situation, but because they considered the arguments of government representatives. They explained in the debate that the Government is already actively solving the problem at systemic level. The proposed law thus comes at a time of negotiations with representative trade unions of the public sector, where discussions are taking place on a different and more fair regulation of the allowance for work in risky situations. The current scheme defines the amount of the allowance as dependent on the basic salary of the civil servant and, following a new one, the allowance would be paid in nominal amount, which we of course welcome. In the debate on the parental committee, it was also raised by the Legal and Legislative Service that the Fires Act already allows the payment of the supplement to professional firefighters for work under specific working conditions. Some local communities have thus already paid these supplements on the basis of the legislation in force, so that the proposed law is not, after all, necessary for payment itself. From a legal point of view, it is nonconsistent and is also problematic in terms of the delimitation of powers between the State and the local community or local self-government and the hierarchy of legal acts. While we understand the proposaler in the Desus Group, we are also, of course, committed to regulating allowances rights in a way that will ensure that these righteous ones are distributed and that no professional group involved in the resolution of the current health and social crisis will feel deprived. Firefighters have always shown up. We can't forget that. They have always made a key contribution in the event of natural and other disasters, so they are highly valued between citizens and citizens, and it is right that they are also properly and fairly rewarded. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law has ended its path on the home work body, our appeal to the Government to deal with the problem as quickly as possible — both by collective agreement and by roof law — and thus to remove any doubt that the supplements could be paid justly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug will be the last to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	In Slovenia we can boast of over 45,000 operational volunteer firefighters, but we also have 700 professional firefighters, employees of fire brigades or public institutions. Firefighters are, as a rule, always the first on the scene of any accident, from the most difficult traffic accidents to the resolution of the floor and above the water, and not least the recovery of cats or birds from mysterious positions. There is also the only way to help rescuers who have to get a patient on the 10th floor. Firefighters and firefighters both enjoy a special city and high trust among people in Slovenia. This profession, however, is obvious and, unfortunately, often overlooked in the drafting of the substantive legislation. Intervention laws to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic have created imbalances within the wider group of firefighters, as they did not provide for the payment of allowances for work in risky situations for firefighters employed in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units and fire extinguishers, thus placing them in an unequal position in comparison with other professional firefighters who received the supplement. Public servants are entitled, in accordance with Article 39 of the Collective Public Sector Treaty, to work in risk situations, including the period of the epidemic declared, to pay an allowance for work in risky situations. Professional firefighters are also entitled to that supplement under Article 14a of the Firearms Act. However, the provisions of this Article do not apply to firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units and fire extinguishers, and, of course, they are not subject to the right to payment of the allowance for work in risky situations. In Slovenia, there are about 100 employees in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting companies and associations and 100 employees left without the above-mentioned supplement. They are subject to the same obligations and rights as professional firefighters in public institutions, except for the first paragraph of paragraph 14a of Article 14a of the Firearms Act, which, in cases such as the epidemic, places them in a very unequal position, even though in such cases they must perform exactly the same tasks and obligations as others. Firefighters are indispensable in so much as all natural disasters, and then they are perceived as heroes by humans without exception. In addition, they save lives, save property, protect the environment, and risk their health and lives for others. People rely on them, and we don't care if they're professional, whether they're voluntary, or whether they're professional in voluntary societies. Everyone's doing the same thing and risking the same thing. Since we want to eliminate this discrimination in the payment of the allowance for equal work in the same situation and we want to ensure that everyone has the same right to pay for this supplement, which they clearly deserve, we support the unrelated Member and the Member's proposal for a law, while at the same time we hope that after today's legislative procedure the law will be reinstated and that in the second attempt it may only get the right majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and, in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the draft law on the payment of the allowance for work in different situations for professional firefighters and employees in voluntary firefighting units and firefighting units has been completed.––––––– I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item — Defence proposal for the distribution of the referendum for the establishment of the municipality of the goalie with the exclusion of the work of the local municipality of the country into a new municipality with the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a referendum was submitted by a group of 34 Members and Members with the first signed by Mateya Udovč. In order to further explain the proposal, I therefore give the floor to Mrs Mateja Udovč, representative of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Your Honor! Local self-government in Slovenia is very diverse and is based on 212 municipalities. The youngest Slovene municipality is Ankaran, and the smallest population is Hodoš Municipality, which has less than 400 inhabitants. In 2010, in order to prevent the fragmentation of local self-government, the Law on Local Self-Government was amended, which, as a basic criterion for the establishment of the municipality, defined its capacity to meet the needs and interests of the population and to perform other tasks in accordance with the law and that the municipality must have at least 5,000 inhabitants and, exceptionally, fewer in a particular case. I am also basically more inclined to connect and cooperate, to unite, but not to crush local self-government, but I would like to point out that, despite these clearly established legal criteria, there were as many as 110 municipalities that did not meet these conditions. There aren't even a thousand people in the 7 municipalities. In public, it is often repeated that 212 municipalities for Slovenia are too many, but the average Slovenian municipality is by population and area more than the average municipality in the European Union. So why did I decide to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for a referendum and a referendum area for the establishment of Golnik Municipality by excluding part of the Municipality of Kranj into the new Municipality of Golnik, although I am not inclined to establish new municipalities? Large congregations, such as the Municipality of Kranj, must satisfy many different and conflicting interests, which is very difficult to reconcile at the level of the entire congregation and provide sufficient financial resources to do so. Often urban centres, where more people live, are more decorated than surrounding rural settlements. It is clear from the material and from the proposal for a referendum that the initiating committee for the establishment of a new municipality, based on a number of discussions, public opinion surveys in this area, consultations with lawyers and experts on local self-government, has prepared a very elaborate and well-founded explanation for the establishment of a new municipality. The proposed Municipality of Golnik would have its seat in the Presoles and would have been established by the elimination of 22 settlements in seven local communities in a territorially rounded area that does not affect the urban suburb of the town of Kranj. By population and size it would be one of the first 60 largest Slovene municipalities. Residents of these local communities have completely different needs than those of those living in the urban part of the city of Kranj, so for me there are perfectly legitimate efforts by the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements who want to have their own congregation so that they can handle their own problems and, of course, have sufficient financial resources to manage them. They now receive significantly lower funds from the municipality for their needs or are found on the tail of priority projects of the municipality. The latter is also evident from the development of the surrounding municipalities, which were sometimes part of the Municipality of Kranj, for example the Municipality of Cerklje, Preddvor, Jezersko, Šenčur. The new municipality has all the resources to be able to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants and to perform other tasks in accordance with the law. Even if the new municipality Golnik is to be removed from the Municipality of Kranj, the remainder will continue to fully meet the conditions for the city municipality. And yes, the city of Kranj will still remain the administrative, economic and cultural centre of the wider region. In view of the above and the rest of the facts presented, the Initiative Committee convinced me that the initiative enjoyed the support of the inhabitants and that it met the legal conditions for the establishment of a new municipality. I therefore assessed that the submission of a proposal to call for an advisory referendum was the only opportunity for the people to express themselves in the most democratic manner on where and how they wanted to conduct and manage local public affairs. Also an eminent expert in this field, the director of the Maribor Institute for Local Self-Government, Dr. Boštjan Brezovnik, stated at the last initiative for the establishment of municipalities: “If some municipalities meet the limit of 5,000 inhabitants, it is meaningful to determine whether they meet the conditions for the establishment of a single municipality. If the will of the local population is expressed, the National Assembly should at least discuss this and decide on the right of the inhabitants to local self-government.” The proposal for a consultation referendum is not directed at anyone, but it is intended to make the most democratic decision in the country's and country's referendums and to indicate where we would like to live in the future. It is intended for equal development and for a better circus tomorrow of 10,000 citizens from this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The proposal for a referendum was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body, and I give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a referendum was considered by the Committee at its 27th meeting, on 4 November 2021. In the introductory part, the representative of the proposers presented the reasons for the proposal and its adoption. The representative of the Government said that the conditions for the referendum were met and that the costs of a possible referendum were estimated at EUR 90 000 by the representative of the State Election Commission. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, inter alia, said that the subordination of the area in question could constitute an infringement of the rule of law and increase the possibility of arbitrariness and unpredictability of conduct, while non-conformity, incomplete and defective procedural arrangements raise several legal issues. During the presentation of the opinion, the State Council said that the Commission of the State Council supported the proposal and mentioned that the number of initiatives for the new municipalities was also due to over-centralisation, which would reduce the intermediate level of local self-government. The Mayor of the Municipality of Kranj presented the reasons against the call for a referendum and, among other things, pointed out that in the City Council of the Municipality of Kranj, against the initiative for a referendum, that against the establishment of a new municipality, the three local communities from the area were intended for a new municipality and on the basis of the results of the public opinion survey also the population themselves. In the case of the new congregation, the new municipality and the Municipality of Kranj will be worse. Representatives of the local initiatives North Kranj presented the reasons for the call for a referendum, presented the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality, mentioned that they had different needs than in Kranj, and stressed that people should decide at the referendum. The representative of the Regional Community Golnik said that the Council of the National Community did not support the initiative and wondered whether the referendum would be legitimate and democratic. However, the President of the Krajina Community, Predelj, said that the desire to secession and establish a new congregation at a meeting of the Council was not recognized. During the debate between MPs and members of the opposition, it was possible to hear that they did not support the proposal for a pre-election story, which is not based on the real wish of people, that it is a proposal for a political decision, that we are in the time before the elections, that they oppose the fragmentation of municipalities, that the new municipality would lose both the Municipality of Kranj and the people of the new municipality, that it is a partial interest of the candidates and that the country should be decentralised in a systematic manner. The disagreement between the three councils of local communities, which would become part of the new municipality, the absence of arguments, research and data, including the number of inhabitants of the central local communities to be excluded and who support and want a referendum, and the absence of opinions from certain local communities and the importance of their silence and the opposition and prevention of a series of referendums in the near future by the current coalition. They also touched on the new concept of the establishment of municipalities, the importance of the merger of municipalities, the consequences of the expulsion of the City Municipality of Kranj, the difficulty of the property sharing procedure and the possibility that a possible decision of the Constitutional Court would not result in a referendum. Among other things, views were expressed on the number of municipalities and the political decision to establish them, the need for the financial independence of the municipalities, and the problem of decision-making at the referendum. While the Member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supported the proposal, he focused more attention on the financing of the new municipality and mentioned, inter alia, the absence of data in this area and said that people should be informed of all relevant and real data before the referendum. Coalition representatives felt that people should be given the opportunity to decide that people wanted to organise themselves. The purpose and purpose of the referendum was to be carried out only in an area that wished to be excluded and it was mentioned that there was nothing wrong with the political decision and that decentralisation was necessary and possible. During the discussion, the representative of the applicants provided additional clarifications and responded in more detail to criticism. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the opinion that the proposal for a referendum was appropriate and that the draft resolution had been discussed. The Committee adopted the latter and became an integral part of the report. In the discussion on the working text, the position was expressed that this was a proposal concerning the entire Municipality of Kranj and that the referendum should therefore be carried out throughout its entire area. A referendum for the establishment of the Municipality of Golnik shall be opened by means of a motion for a decree, setting up a referendum area. This is the area of 22 settlements in the Municipality of Kranj, the text of the referendum question, the date of the referendum, which will take place on 6 December 2021, while the date of the vote will be Sunday, 16 January 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion. Mrs Urska Ban, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a referendum for the establishment of the Municipality of Golnik by excluding part of the Municipality of Kranj in the new Municipality of Golnik at its 97th regular session 14. Ten. 2021. Allow me to introduce him briefly. The government assessed the proposal, for the first time, in terms of meeting the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality by excluding the work of an existing municipality; for the second time, whether the remainder of the municipality after the expulsion of the part of the Municipality of Kranj into the new Municipality of Golnik would still meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality and whether the city of Kranj would still meet the conditions for the granting of the status of the municipality to the current Municipality of Kranj. The conditions laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government have been treated by the Government as a whole, so that it did not act arbitrarily in its opinion. In drawing up the opinion and the proposal, it also took into account the views of the Constitutional Court relating to the procedures for the establishment of municipalities, in particular the 1994 decision, by which the Constitutional Court finds that the municipality is a living community of people residing in the territory of one or more mutually connected settlements. It is particularly characterised by territorial cohesion, which creates a network of interpersonal and neighbourly relations and awareness of the Community's membership as a fundamental territorial community. Another important feature is the territorial integration of people in a given area and the third element represents the number of people who must be so large as to enable local self-government to be implemented in a functional sense. On the basis of the above, the Government notes that the conditions laid down in Articles 9, 12, 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government have been fulfilled. The Government, taking into account the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, also notes in its opinion that the new municipality, according to the number of inhabitants and the way in which the primary consumption of the municipality is calculated, would be able to carry out the statutory tasks for its population. The Government further notes that the remainder of the Municipality of Kranj, after the possible exclusion of those settlements into the new Municipality of Golnik, would still meet certain conditions for the municipality and for the municipality. On the basis of the above findings, the Government considers that the condition for the invitation to tender for a referendum for the establishment of a new Golnik Municipality is met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Janez Moškrič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Pursuant to Article 14b of the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, it is proposed that the Council adopt a decision on the invitation to a referendum and the establishment of a referendum area for the establishment of a new Municipality of Golnik in the referendum areas of the following settlements: Babni Garden, Bobovek, Britof, Čadovlje, Golič, Golič, Golič, Ilovka, Kokrica, Letenice, Mlaka pri Kranju, Orehovlje, Pangršica, Povlje, Prije, Preselj, Srakovlje, Central Vas - Goriče, Suha pri Preselj, Tatinec, Tentiš, Trstenik, Zabod and Žablje, in order to determine whether there is an interest in establishing a new municipality of Golnik, or as residents of Golnik. The municipality is in accordance with the Constitution, as justified and as justified by the Constitutional Court, the living community of people residing in the territory of one or more mutually connected settlements. An important element is the number of people who must be sufficient to enable local self-government to be implemented in a functional sense, so that the lower and upper limits of the population allow the formation of community bodies in representative terms and that the number of inhabitants is such that the organisation of public activities that are essential for the lives of people is also meaningful. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the third paragraph of Article 139, provides that the municipality shall be established by law following a previous referendum to determine the will of the inhabitants in a particular area. It should therefore be pointed out that the signed proponents do not in any way break the great Municipality of Kranj, as it turns out that the majority will in the proposed referendum area is “for” its municipality means that the inhabitants of these settlements no longer feel connected to the home congregation. And it is only possible to take the first step towards meeting the wishes and needs of the inhabitants of these settlements. On the contrary, if they prove to be against it, they are satisfied with this form of local self-government as is now available. It should also be pointed out that in the past this national assembly has always sought to ensure that this will of individual inhabitants, groups of settlements, was fulfilled on the basis of desire, and sometimes, or many times, this was placed before the legal material in force at that time. The proposal for a referendum for the establishment of the Municipality of Golnik should be assessed in terms of the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality by excluding part of the existing municipality, with an important question whether the remainder of the municipality after the expulsion of the part of the Municipality of Kranj into the new municipality would still meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality and whether the city of Kranj would still meet the conditions for the award and maintenance of the status of the Municipality of Kranj. The government specifically examined whether the remainder of this municipality would still meet certain conditions for the municipality after the possible exclusion of the following settlements into the new Municipality of Golnik. Since she had one. Seven. 2019 The municipality of Kranj 56 000 715 inhabitants and the new municipality would also have 10 000 248 inhabitants after the possible expulsion would also continue to meet the conditions for the municipality and/or for the municipality. The Government considers that the legal conditions for the invitation to tender for the establishment of a new Golnik Municipality are met. On the contrary, the Municipality of Kranj considers that there are many unfulfilled conditions. The time foreseen for the referendum is the time when all actors and also residents, voters, will weigh between all positions and all the advantages or disadvantages of the referendum decision, ahead of us. Therefore, we hope that this time will be a good time, it is a fair campaign. We therefore support the call for a referendum in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In Slovenia, from the idea to the holding of the referendum is a relatively difficult path. In certain cases, it is not even possible to referendum. However, not when it comes to a referendum on the establishment of a congregation. The path to a referendum on the establishment of a new congregation is still relatively easy. A group of people gathers, finds a Member or a Member, and then, in the coalition, they abuse support. And we're on our way to the referendum. That is exactly how it happened in the initiative to establish a new Municipality of Golnik with secession from the Municipality of Kranj. And that's not even that controversial. There's something else in your eyes. It is true that the people's will, or they really want a new congregation, would only give a referendum, but with some tangible support for the idea, the initiative committee should nevertheless equip an MP who advocates the referendum and the establishment of the Golnik Municipality. Well, maybe it is, but we, who have to decide on the referendum invitation, have not seen it. The oral tradition here isn't enough. However, if only superficiality can be seen to this end in justifying the proposal, it is further suggested that an attempt should be made to mislead the National Assembly. The instigators claim that the new congregation was supported by the conclusions of the four local communities and that the world of one local community opposed it. I don't know why say something like that when it's verifiable. And none of the seven local communities spoke of a new congregation. The Council of the local community Golnik is even against. So the Golnik, by whom the new congregation is to be called, does not want to be in the new congregation. In any case, the seat of the congregation would be in the Presoles, and they did not pronounce themselves a new congregation. Good trip, you're welcome. The city council of the Municipality of Kranj also agreed against it. What is particularly important throughout the story is that in the local community Golnik, unlike the initiators, also documented the will of the countrymen. They have collected almost 500 signatures and signatures are still coming, 500 signatures against the secession from Kranj. This is the majority of electoral beneficiaries in the local community and these signatures may be crucial in the future in this process. Let me refresh my memory. In 2005 the National Assembly called for a referendum on the establishment of the new Municipality of Izlaka by expulsion from the Municipality of Zagorje ob Savi. 36 people, I repeat, 36 people in the village of Polšin objected, and it was enough that the Constitutional Court finally annulled the decision of the National Assembly to call for a referendum. The decision stated that the possible opposition of the inhabitants of the municipality to the inclusion in the new municipality could be an important element for assessing the fulfilment of the constitutional conditions for the establishment of the municipality. This is very similar to our case, except that this is not just one settlement and 36 people, but more local communities. And what is absurd is the Provincial Community of Golnik, by which the new congregation is to be called. The risk of a referendum in breach of the Constitution is therefore very high. In the LMŠ we understand the referendum as the highest form of the democratic will of citizens. We were loudly opposed to denying the right to a referendum when the government of Janez Janša used the legal prohibition of the referendum to instill various unacceptable legal solutions in anti-Korona packages. In the case of the initiative for the new Golnik Municipality, however, we are opposed to the call for a referendum because the initiative itself shows that it is about meeting the interests of a narrow group of people, not the will of an important part of the people who are supposed to live in the new congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković is next. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you again for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The instigators of the secession of the northern part of the Municipality of Kranj with the formation of the new Municipality of Golnik managed to obtain 34 Members and Members with the first signed colleague Mateja Udovč. On the Committee on the Interior, a representative of the local initiative said that it was a multi-year effort to secession from the municipal community and to form a new congregation. The reason lies in the opinion of the initiators in the uneven development of individual parts of the municipality and in the uneven distribution of funds across local communities. He estimates that we could do much more with our municipality Golnik and with the resources we could have as a municipality, especially at the investment work. Unfortunately, we cannot agree with this argument by the initiators, because we know that more intensive investment is taking place in areas that the candidates of the referendum want to join in the new municipality of Golnik. We must also not forget the relatively complex procedures for the division of balance between the possible new Municipality of Golnik and the Municipality of Kranj, and in particular the negative consequences of such division, which would block a lot of already started or planned investment in the municipality area to secede from the Municipality of Kranj. We are sure that if the referendum were successful, all residents of the Municipality of Kranj would lose their lives, so that those who remained in the municipality would be more affected by the settlements of Babni Garden, Bobovek, Britof, Čadovlje, Gonik, Goriča, Ilovka, Kokrica, Letenice, Mlaka pri Kranj, Orehovlje, Pangršica, Povlje, Predoslje, Srakovlje, Central Vase - Gorica, Suha pri Prijesljeh, Tatinec, Tentiš, Trstenik, Zalog and Žablje. The very presentation of the initiative also showed that respected initiators do not know the best functioning of local self-government and that they act in some way against citizens. They certainly act against those who do not want new congregations and would like to remain part of the Municipality of Kranj. Warnings coming from the Golnik Regional Community and other local communities go this way. Thus, for example, the will of the inhabitants of the National Community of Golnik will be taken into account if they did not make a majority statement to establish a new congregation, but would eventually agree to it, simply because they would be voted in the referendum and in some way become prisoners of the fulfilment of the ten thousand legal criterion. The criterion of the actual connection of the local community with the City Municipality of Kranj would remain subordinate. We therefore join the Social Democrats in giving serious warnings to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which clearly states that recent amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government have been made mainly to promote the integration and integration of municipalities. But we have an initiative ahead of us today, which is going in the opposite direction. The criteria or criteria in the procedures for the establishment of new municipalities and the Law on Local Self-Government are, in our opinion, overly loose, and the law is substandard, since it does not provide answers to many of the questions raised in the process of establishing new municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, with the call for a referendum, many of the development and investment projects prepared by Mayor Matjaž Rakovec's team during the first three years of the county could be slowed down and some projects might even be stopped. Projects and investments planned in settlements that, according to the proposal of the widow, would go to the new congregation. Whatever the case, it must be acknowledged that the Municipality of Kranj has been preparing rapidly for the last three years to carry out concrete projects, which will also benefit from European funds as a large municipality with great potential in the coming years and thus improve the quality of life for all people and people, regardless of where the end of the Municipality of Kranj is. Social Democrats are convinced that Kranj has great development potential that the mayor's team, together with residents and residents of Kranj, can realize in the coming years. Successful and continuous work, in particular for larger investment projects, has at least proved to be necessary for several years or for multi-tasking. Each time the change in municipal leadership for a longer and even development, where the wishes and opportunities of all the inhabitants of a local environment are taken into account, is, at least in our opinion, a poor journey. Social Democrats are aware that the referendum is one of the forms of direct democracy in which all citizens who have the right to vote participate. In the case before us today, we consider whether all citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Kranj should have the right to vote, or whether such a referendum should be announced on the basis of a certain percentage of the electorate and electorate from the areas of the local communities that would become a new municipality. The latter would also mean that the initiative to call for a referendum is a real reflection of the will of the electorate and the electorate, not the desire of some individuals and individuals who want new congregations. Unfortunately, this is not the case, so we will not support the proposal for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Apparently, in fear of upcoming elections, some are afraid of almost certain departures from Parliament and are using all possible partial, narrow, interest-oriented actions that may prevent this. In recent times, it has been the case that some congregations have become city halls. If you make harmful decisions and give legitimacy to the hurtful government of John Janša, even though you soak your fingers in marmalade, you can’t really count on a very long political survival. But what you're suggesting this time is really funny. In the place where you will run, you have found a small group of citizens and citizens who want secession from the home municipality of Kranj. And since certain conditions, such as the number of people, have been legally laid down for the establishment of the new congregation, you have simply joined as many people as you needed to meet this condition through the thumb of this small group of citizens and citizens without their knowledge, even if their desire to secession. When these people asked you how their local community got on the list of those who wanted to break off, you simply explained to them that your lawyers had created several scenarios for you, how you could meet the required conditions for setting up a congregation, and then you decided for one of them, if you did, you would decide at the referendum whether you were in favour or against. This is perfectly consistent with SMC, SNS and SDS. Have we seen any petitions from citizens and citizens? We didn't. We've seen two representatives of a civil initiative body and we've seen hundreds of signatures gathered against this secession. In short, if people have not expressed their will after a change, you will impose on them your will, whether they like it or not. We do not remember such a precedent in the National Assembly. We do not have problems in Levika with democratically integrated citizens and citizens in deciding on key issues, including referendums. At local level, they are generally insufficient, as is the lack of other forms of participation and direct impact on the development of municipalities. All of these are usually reasons for the aspirations of the formation of new congregations, following secession from the home congregation. It is common for all such initiatives and the aspirations of secession to have the effect of the fact that cities often forget their villages. Since citizens and citizens living in rural areas generally feel justified that the main thing about money and effort is that the mayors invest in the urban center of the municipality, a desire to establish a new congregation is quickly aroused. And black criticism is often justified, the establishment of new congregations is not a solution. The problem that needs to be addressed is centralisation, and this problem cannot be solved by an overinflated number of municipalities, which would make things worse and not improve. It is necessary to work on decentralisation, on integration into regions, on democratisation, on the inclusion of people in decision-making processes and not on the establishment of new and new municipalities, not in the way that we have seen it in this particular case. This establishment of Golnik Municipality is not supported by people who live in this new congregation, even worse, some have not been familiar with this proposal at all. This is a solo action by a Member of the National Assembly and not a broad activation of citizens and citizens. Nor would the new municipality meet all the legal conditions for setting up; on the questionable appropriateness of this proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service has been called for on just ten pages. This is why we are opposed to the proposal in Levica. However, I stress that we are committed to those key solutions that will prevent people from even thinking about such proposals, i.e. decentralisation, regionalisation and, above all, the consistent involvement of all citizens and citizens in decision-making processes at the level of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! On 30 September this year, a proposal for a referendum for the establishment of the Municipality of Golnik was tabled in the National Assembly with the exclusion of the part of the Municipality of Kranj in the new Municipality of Golnik. The referendum question, of course, concerns the establishment of a new Golnik Municipality, which would have its seat in the Presleys. As everyone knows, the new municipality would be expelled from the Municipality of Kranj. In New Slovenia we support the development of local self-government and efforts for coherent regional development of all regions of Slovenia. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate, manage and operate independently and to have in their jurisdiction public affairs from the life and work of the inhabitants of their territory. Any serious initiative to establish a new congregation is therefore worth the attention and weighting of its eligibility. The same applies in the case of a proposal for a referendum on the establishment of Golnik Municipality. The new municipality would cover an area covered by the local communities of Britof, Gonik, Goriča, Kokrica, Predoslje, Tenetiše and Trstenik. At the beginning of the drafting of the proposal for a referendum by local communities, there was no great enthusiasm for the call for a referendum or the establishment of a new congregation. Only three local communities have supported the initiative since seven. Despite the continuation of the procedure and the development of the public debate on the proposal, to date none of the other local communities have joined in supporting this initiative. In New Slovenia, the public debate on the proposal would be expected to encourage local-level representatives to publicly support the referendum for their new municipality. We would therefore expect that some of the remaining four local communities will be re-elected for support. It also made sense to give the initiative room by continuing the process and discussing the proposal in the National Assembly. The initiative for a referendum on the establishment of a new congregation, however, is still without the support of most of the local communities that will form it. In the case of the establishment of a new municipality, a public opinion survey shows that only 21.5% of the respondents support the secession of their local community from the Municipality of Kranj and the establishment of a new municipality, which is not supported by 70% of the new municipality. We recognize that this is a study commissioned by the Municipality of Kranj and that we do not give a decisive weight to the decision of the Group of Members on the proposal. More importantly, there should be a gap where the support of the local communities on the fates they decide to do so should be more important. In line with our programme orientation, which particularly appreciates the principle of subsidiarity, in New Slovenia we sincerely want to support every serious initiative for a referendum on the establishment of a new municipality. The principle of subsidiarity also requires that we take into account relevant and, above all, key stakeholders at local level when deciding on such an initiative. Regrettably, in the present case, the support of those most affected by the initiative has been left out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	Your Honor! The referendum is a form of direct voter decision on the Constitution, law or other legal act or on another issue that is important to the social community. The referendum and human initiatives are a form of direct democracy. The National Assembly may hold an advisory referendum on issues of its competence which are of wider importance to citizens, and may be held in the whole of the country or in a specific area of the area, if the issue concerns only the inhabitants of the region. The referendum shall be called by the National Assembly and shall be open to any Member or Member. Today we will consider and decide on Thursday on the proposal for a referendum and the establishment of a referendum area for the establishment of Golnik Municipality by excluding part of the Municipality of Kranj in the new Municipality of Golnik. The procedure for setting up the municipality is carried out in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Constitutional Court in several stages. The first stage shall determine whether the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the congregation are actually met. On this basis, the National Assembly shall then call for a so-called consultative referendum to determine the will of the inhabitants and residents in the referendum area or area covering the territory of the new municipality. In doing so, it should be noted that the Council of State shall call for a referendum only if it has previously determined that all legal conditions are met for the establishment of a new congregation. Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides for its ability to meet the needs and interests of the people and to fulfil the other statutory tasks of the municipalities. Article 13a provides that the municipality must have at least 5,000 inhabitants. As the proposer of this proposed act on the call for a referendum, I can confirm that the proposal for the establishment of a new Golnik Municipality meets all the conditions laid down by law. This is also reflected in the opinion of the Government, which is a key basis for the decision-making of the National Assembly. In doing so, I would like to point out that the latter is also the only criterion for decision-making at this stage. It is also clear from the opinion of the Government that despite the expulsion and establishment of the new Municipality Golnik City Municipality Kranj would retain its status and remain the economic, cultural and administrative court of the Golnik region. This fact is also important to me as citizens of the Municipality of Kranj. In this regard, we would also like to point out in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that in the past municipalities have been established which did not meet the legal conditions laid down, but we would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the National Assembly in all its 30-year practice, if we consider the complications of the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara, has not yet rejected the proposal for a referendum to verify the will of the people who fulfil the conditions laid down by law. That is why we want, hope and expect the National Assembly to follow this practice and that it will not repeat the error as it did in the case of Ankara. At that time, he succumbed to pressure from the City Congregation of Koper. And the epilogue in this case is familiar to us. Finally, the congregation was established by the Constitutional Court. It is also true that the Municipality of Kranj has submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Law on Local Self-Government by proposing temporary detention. Today's proposal for an act on the basis of the amended Law on Local Self-Government, which changed both the procedure and the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality, has been practically plowing the ice after eleven years. However, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, constitutional provisions, numerous decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Members, the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative and, last but not least, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide sufficient legal basis for this procedure to be carried out in accordance with the Constitution. I reiterate that I do not come from the area in which the new municipality is established and that I do not intend to run in the area of the new Golnik Municipality at the next local elections. Therefore, I strongly reject all the indications that I am solely guided by the political motives and my and the interests of the political party from which I come in this call for a referendum. As you know, on the basis of the amended legislation, the candidates for the call for the establishment of a new municipality are only Members and Members. I have explained on my own several occasions that I have been asked by a local initiative committee to submit a proposal for a referendum bill on their behalf, because they do not have this right under the new legislation. As a member of Parliament and at the same time as a citizen of the Municipality of Kranj, I listened to their arguments and decided as I did. My decision was also influenced by the fact that I am aware of the problems and problems faced by residents in this area or on the outskirts of Kranj. In addition, they recognized that I have a positive attitude towards the Institute of Direct Democracy, such as a referendum, and in particular to proposals that are not harmful and whose motive is not exclusively a political part of the conflict between the coalition and the opposition, i.e. proposals that address the real problems that people face. If this proposal for an act is given sufficient support today or in the coming days, this does not mean that the new Golnik Municipality will be established. Today, we decide only to give people the opportunity to express their opinions about whether they want to live in the new congregation. Therefore, I see no reason to object, since the new municipality will only be established if the inhabitants and residents of the seven local communities in the referendum are spoken for the establishment of a new municipality – Golnik Municipality. Those who oppose the establishment of a new municipality, whether city councilors and mayors of the Municipality of Kranj, members of individual local communities and individuals, should convince the rest of the population why it would be better for them to stay in the Municipality of Kranj. I'm not taking part in the referendum campaign alone. As I have already mentioned, I am neither a countrywoman nor a member of the local initiative committee for the establishment of a new congregation, and I just want to allow people to decide and tell what is best for them on the basis of the constitutional principle of direct authority exercised by the institution of the referendum. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we expect the National Assembly to respect their decision in the next stages of this process. As you know, the establishment of the municipality and its constitution constitute the third and fourth phases, with the third ending with the adoption of the creation law and the fourth with the local elections and the election of the mayor and the constitution of the municipal council. It is true that the referendum, if it comes to it at all, will only be of a consultative nature. In this place, I reiterate that the National Assembly on the establishment of municipalities, if we consider the case of Ankaran, has never acted contrary to the referendum expressed the will of the inhabitants and inhabitants. Some concerns regarding the establishment of the referendum area were also expressed on the home working body. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to both the parliamentary practice and the constitutional case-law, which is that the referendum is to be signed and the will of the inhabitants is to be determined only in the area where the municipality is to be established. If this area were wider, or if the referendum were to be opened in the area of an existing municipality from which the new municipality would be removed, then no new municipality would be established in Slovenia in the past. In our opinion, the National Assembly would, in violation of the Constitution, intervene in the constitutional right of people to establish their own congregation and thus exercise local self-government. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the procedure for the adoption of this proposal has been carried out in accordance with the Constitution to meet the conditions laid down by the law and that, in accordance with the constitutional principle of the direct authority of the people, it allows the inhabitants and residents of the seven local communities to exercise their constitutional right to local self-government. We will therefore support the proposal for a referendum as a decision on the call for a referendum in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! We have before us a proposal for a referendum to establish a new Golnik Municipality. Referendum decision-making is the basis of a direct form of democracy, and at this point I must stress that we support it in principle in the SAB. This is an important institution that allows citizens to co-decision on the most important social issues both at national and local level. However, it should be pointed out, on the initiative in question, that it is only for the benefit of a handful of individuals. In the area of the planned new municipality, a public opinion survey was carried out, the results of which are in themselves sufficiently eloquent. In contrast to the secession of its local community from the Municipality of Kranj and the establishment of the new Municipality of Golnik, 70 % of the respondents were asked. The world of the National Community Golnik is also not fond of this idea. It is therefore more than obvious that it is not the people's will, so in the SAB we do not see the need to call for a referendum on this issue, which, by the way, represents a cost of EUR 90 000. We are particularly surprised by the fact that in order to reduce the City Municipality of Kranj, there is a Member who has been elected to Kranj. The fact is that in Slovenia we have 212 municipalities and half of them do not meet the legally defined conditions for the establishment of the municipality. In the SAB, we want to talk about how to make congregations stronger so that they can take better care of the needs of citizens and citizens. Financing long-term investments is undoubtedly one of the major problems of small municipalities. The long - term fragmentation of the congregations means nothing more than uneven development in all areas. By establishing a new municipality, we would lose everyone, both the Municipality of Kranj and the people of the area in which the new municipality would be established. The Mayor of the Municipality of Kranj told us that, during his term of office, a total of EUR 26 million had been invested in an area where a new municipality was to be formed. We're talking about three years. At the same time, the initiators for the referendum state that the new municipality will remain €4 million per year for the investment, amounting to 12 million in three years. So math is clear and simple. For investments in the same area in three years, the new municipality would have earmarked EUR 14 million less than the municipality of Kranj. In the SAB party, we are aware that quality of life of citizens and citizens is crucial to the quality and efficiency of local self-government, so we strongly oppose attempts to break down strong urban communities. Local self-government must primarily provide a good service for people and in the SAB we do not agree to the fragmentation of municipalities with a view to pursuing the interests of individual local politicians. We advocate the gathering of congregations in a way that gives them more authority and more responsibility. We will therefore vote against the proposal for a referendum. However, if there is a referendum, we will engage and make sure that people do not inherit a handful of individuals who want only to exercise their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Local self-government is a fundamental form of territorial authority organisation and the broadest framework for the self-government of citizens living in a specific area. The local community, however, is a fundamental form of self-government of citizens and a basic form of community organisation in which citizens exercise their rights directly and satisfy their needs. Coherence between the practically functioning community in space and its legal institutionalisation is an inevitable condition that affects the performance of local communities in meeting the needs of the municipality's inhabitants and the democratic resolution of local problems, public matters of local importance. The relationship between the size of municipalities, the effectiveness of the provision of local public services and the participation of citizens in local life were at the heart of the debate in all reforms and decisions on the establishment of new municipalities. Discussions on a more effective or democratic size for the municipalities and the administrative reforms that followed took place together with the process of redistributing powers between the state and local levels of power. How can we fulfill the congregation’s responsibilities? This is a prerequisite for any debate as serious as it is. Those who disunite must present their reasons for the municipality's ability to function as a creative energy promoter in the local community, in accordance with the interests of the people. The community as bureaucratic or as a political fiction has been, is and will be barren at all times and places. Each initiative to establish a new municipality can identify two characteristics: optimism in the assessment of the future revenue of the municipality and great reservation in the assessment of future expenditure. However, the size and structure of future revenue and expenditure are crucial for the future performance of the statutory tasks of the congregation, and they are crucial for its administrative and executive capacity. In a particular case, it is noted that a rather specific interpretation of the possible balance sheet and the taking-over of the liabilities under the commitments is relevant. These will, in any event, severely reduce the credit potential of the new municipality or its maximum possible level of indebtedness, which the applicants refer to as the most promising source for the implementation of new investments. At least the following conditions must be met for the municipality, as a fundamental local self-government community: the territory, the population bound by the common interests, the awareness of the membership of this community and the conditions for organising activities to satisfy the common interests and needs of the people of the municipality. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has found that the area in which the new municipality is to be established meets all the legal conditions for setting up. The potential municipality would also belong to a third of the largest municipalities in Slovenia, while the remainder of the Municipality of Kranj would still meet the conditions for the municipality after possible exclusion. However, there is a need to stress the importance of this place. Today we do not speak, and Thursday we will not decide on the establishment of a new congregation. It has to be repeated. Thursday's vote will not mean whether we are in favour or against the establishment of Golnik Municipality. Today, we are talking about whether to give people the opportunity in this local area to say that they want to live in a new congregation. We can only give them this option if we sign a referendum. The National Assembly may decide to call for a referendum, so the question is whether we can deny people their will on such an important issue for them. This is not about deciding on the necessary measures to ensure the defence of the country, nor is it about deciding on security measures or addressing the consequences of natural disasters. It is also not a matter of deciding on legislation relating to taxes, customs and other compulsory duties; or it is not a matter of deciding on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget. It's something else. It is about people deciding in accordance with the principle that the congregation is the only community so natural that people form it wherever they gather from themselves. The democracy of local self-government is based on the possibility of the widest and direct participation of citizens in public affairs. Only where there is a possibility that responsibility can be learned and strengthened in matters that most people are aware of, is only where procedures are guided by awareness of their fellowman, but not as theoretical knowledge of the needs of others, only where the ordinary person can actually participate in public affairs because they relate to the world he knows, is the democracy of local self-government at the forefront. Members of the Desus Group have different views on the principles just described and we will therefore vote on the proposal for a referendum to establish the Golnik Municipality in accordance with the diversity of these views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a referendum to establish a municipality. Since there are quite a few changes, I will read the first few debaters. She'll get the word "magic" first. Alenka Bratusek, behind her Igor Pecek, then mag. Bojana Muršič, Predrag Baković. I'll finish here, and then I'll tell the other few expected discussers. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Today or just now we are talking about the City Congregation of Kranj, which is also my congregation, my city congregation. We talk about making this city’s congregation weaker. According to my assessment, by dividing this city congregation today, Kranj into a small city congregation and losing all of us to a new congregation; we lose those who will remain in the city congregation and lose those who may go to a new congregation. In Slovenia we already have 212 municipalities and half of them do not meet the legal requirements, half of them. In the SAB party, we stand for strong municipalities that play an important role in the development of our country, and further fragmentation will certainly not guarantee this. We're surprised to see the SMC party, why are you so keen on Gorenjska. First, they voted against getting another municipality in Gorenjska, namely Jesenice, which meets at least as many conditions as Krško meets. And now these same Members are advocating that the only city congregation in Gorenjska, this is the City Municipality of Kranj, let us make it weaker. I don't know what we did to them or how they got so angry in Gorenjska. Second thing. The fact is that people decide on the accession, secession or any new municipalities, but this is supposed to be a local initiative and it is supposed to be there, in the local environment, but not to come to the National Assembly with the initiative to sign a consultative referendum. We could do this by collecting people’s signatures, by demanding, and by doing so, we could show that the local initiative is so strong that people are so powerful that they can secede to the new congregation. But no; you went the easy way to want your own – and something you also managed – to squeeze your coalition partners into a corner, just to let you here, I say, hold the stand. It should be said that in the Cranian City Council, all parties, Nova Slovenija and SDS, voted against the division of the city municipality; Nova Slovenija and SDS. It will be interesting to watch and show people in Kranj how, at the national level, these same parties respect the decision of their local people. You say that the new congregation would have more, which of course it does not. Approximately €10 million would be collected or set a budget of €10 million under the law. And only 4 million would be left to invest, only 4 million. This has been said here by a lady who, by the way, has declared herself a civil initiative with 5 people. Four million. Over the last three years, €26 million of investment has been invested in this area. So 3 times 4, as you suggest, is 12. More than half of this area would have the money to invest if you had announced your proposal or if you had your idea. Since you can't do anything else, of course you're proposing an invitation to an advisory referendum that's not binding on anyone. Even if we were to call a referendum and even if we had succeeded, I know it wouldn't, it's still just a consultative referendum. Why do you choose ways to burden people with public finances instead of going on the road as required by law? Prepare a proposal for a law to establish a new congregation, under this law will be signed by 10,000 citizens who live there, or at least 5,000 as required, you will bring a law and establish a congregation if that is really the case. Of course, public opinion polls say anything else, that only 21.5% of people support this new municipality, 70% oppose it, 8.5% refused to be defined. And that's exactly the situation in that part. The ones we're from, we go look at people. And that's exactly what the situation is. Most of all, they find it crazy that you called the congregation Gonik, but you would like to give it a seat in the Presleys. This is about the same as the large municipality of Ljubljana, based in Medvod. You've got ideas like that. And that's what people really think, I'm going to say, crazy or even a little humiliating, someone told me that they find it a little humiliating. But maybe that's the way you want it, or maybe you wanted to convince someone that it was a good idea. The fact is, it's not a good idea. The fact is that in this way we lose all, once again, those who remain in Kranj and those who go to the new congregation. The fact is, people are opposed to it. And the fact is, you have an exact written procedure of how the congregation is established. This should remain a local initiative. I don't know why you're even burdening the National Assembly by being very specific about how people in that area can make a decision and get to the new congregation if they want to. Of course, my call goes the other way around, respectable colleagues and colleagues. As a foreigner or a citizen of the Municipality of Kranj, I invite you to leave the congregation as it is. And, of course, I urge you not to support this consultation referendum because they have, if there is a mass civil initiative, absolute rights and the possibility of coming to the municipality in accordance with legislation. But it's not true. It is not for this initiative of a multitude of people, for this initiative there are some individuals who seek their own and sole personal interests. Of course, I will vote against this consultative referendum. And my appeal goes to you to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word. And he's going to be followed by a mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I come from the Municipality of Kranj myself to say this in the introduction. In the introduction, I would also like to say that I am not at all opposed to the referendum initiative. This is, after all, the constitutional right of every citizen. I myself in the very near past have never supported the ban on the referendum initiative. So if I repeat, I do not oppose the referendum initiative. But I object to the abuse of this constitutional right. Personally, I feel that we are witnessing this kind of behavior today. Why? Because today we are going to decide whether to allow or call for a referendum without the initiative of people, citizens, citizens, whatever we tell them who live there. The referendum will be presented only on the basis of the ideas and wishes of a few people. The proposer did not submit any evidence, no signatures of support or otherwise to her proposal for a referendum. Last week, in the National Assembly, we received an opinion from the Council of the Regional Community Golnik, which opposes the establishment of a new congregation. It was written that this initiative is opposed to 435 countries. Today, we have received another letter, or opinion, that these people are already close to 500. There are 900 nationals in the local Golnik community who have the right to vote. The proposer does not even have the support of the worlds in local communities. Moreover, the Provincial Community of Golnik, by which the new congregation will be named, and the National Community of Presoles, in which the seat will be significant, have expressly given up their consent and support for the establishment of a new congregation. As has already been said, the proposal was opposed by all city councilors, including those coming from coalition parliamentary parties – SDS and NSI. Finally, we can ask ourselves if 5,000 signatures are really enough for the congregation to meet all the necessary conditions for it to become a congregation. Many things will have to be done in this new congregation, if any, from health care, library, municipal, editorial services. And also the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, more concerns than anything else, are written on ten pages. I wish and hope that the countries will be properly presented with what obligations and what this will mean for the congregation, which, if they do, will be established, both in terms of income and expenditure, so that the distribution balance, which will certainly be required, will bring them quite a few commitments and that the development of infrastructure in this new municipality will also be subject to the heavy financial burden of these distribution balances. It has already been said that the Municipality of Kranj has invested 26 million in this area over the last three years. I'll tell you again. I do not oppose the referendum initiative of people, but I am sure that in this case it is not the initiative of people, but the initiative of only a handful of individuals. I repeat, in my view, this is an abuse of the right to a referendum initiative. Why does this information seem important to me? Because the law at this local referendum does not provide for a quorum, which means that in this case a new congregation could also be established if only a handful of people — supporters — arrived at the referendum and, by chance, I personally doubt that this would happen — the congregation would be established only on the basis of the will of a few individuals. I will conclude by saying that I also believe that the establishment of the congregation on a bureaucratic basis does not have a developmental perspective and will, rather than anything else, mean ill will and disappointment among the citizens of the new congregation. But today we're not making that decision, but we're deciding one thing, and I've already said something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. She will be discussed by Predrag Baković. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't come from the Kranj Municipality. Yet, given what I have heard from my predecessors, there is not much to add. In fact, the two who come from these ends are opposed. If you take a closer look at the matter, you can see that many are even more opposed to it. Why am I saying that? Although I must say at the outset that I absolutely do not object to the fact that in essence people's will to sign a referendum is respected, it is still necessary to take a little look. The municipalities are established in a different way. I also asked the Minister in October 2021 about the creation of new municipalities. And he explained to me that the government in the coalition contract has no commitments to establish new municipalities; and he estimated that the territorial reform of the Slovenian local government had been completed. That's significant information. But all that has convinced me even more is that, in fact, this initiative needs to be very careful is a letter that we have received from all Members and Members of the National Community, Golnik, who is in fact very understandable. He warns us that they do not really want this new congregation, for they realize that small congregations are gaining something, but on the other hand they are losing a lot. We must all be aware that the smaller congregations are now increasingly associated with the common tasks, since they cannot carry out all the congregation’s tasks. And it would make sense for the congregations to be united, not divided; which would be crucial. Finally, allow me to raise this matter, which is also highlighted by the President of the Council of the Regional Community Golnik, who states: “Slovenia does not need the Municipality of Golnik. He doesn't want it. We made that clear and loud. Please listen to us." If it is not clear here that it is necessary to listen to people's will, and we must not miss the fact that, if a referendum is to be called, the cost of public finances will be up to 90,000 euros, and we should be on fire here by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. And after him, she's gonna get hit by a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our Slovenia we have 212 municipalities and when we talk about this number and of course when we talk about municipalities in general, we all find that this is a large number. Too big. And of course, this is too much of a cost, that this organization is so different and different. Then you are surprised by the initiative to establish the 213th congregation, and I hear that the 214, where this is also happening somewhere in the area of Gorenjska, I think Lesce is Radovljica, and somewhere in the Styria Menda 215. And I don't know where this number's gonna stop. If, on the one hand, we all find, including the Minister of Public Administration, including the people on the ground, that the municipalities are much too much, and on the other hand we are here to sign or try to call a referendum on this, then something is wrong. And, of course, it will only open up extra appetites or an extra Pandora's box, as we like to say. Colleagues before me, especially those who know the situation, Mrs Alenka Bratušek is already on the committee for the last time, and she has already expressed her position, of course also said by colleague Mrs Mateja Udovč and Mayor Kranj. At that time, three representatives of the local communities were present on the committee – Gonik and Presole Britof, if I am not mistaken, I hope that I said yes, who said Golnik was a priori against, I think they also gave 400 and some signatures against the new congregation; and also Britof and Presby, who said they did not notice the interest or desire to establish a new congregation. On the other hand, we see a thousand signatures coming. Of course I haven't seen them myself. Now I don't know if there are these thousand signatures or not. Whether it's in a protected drawer or not, it's kind of funny. On the one hand, you have signatures, on the other hand, in a protected drawer, okay, I allow the possibility that these thousands of signatures are, but if someone was preparing for one such project – the establishment of a congregation as such, then comes to the National Assembly, comes to the National Assembly with an army, I will say, comes with people supported by an initiative, not that two members of a civil initiative were present at the board meeting and a respected fellow Member who supports it, Mateja Udovč. And then, of course, when you see the mayor on the other side, you see how he represents the situation, how he says what the problems will be, what the balance sheet will be, and not least, I listened to my colleague, Polnar, who was still very clear today, as far as these things are concerned, that some of them represent the establishment of the congregation and the management of the congregation slightly by their own means. Of course, then you will be asked what really is the reason for this. Since the representatives of the three local communities here were clear, the mayor was clear, and civil initiative was, of course, clear that they wanted their own congregation. And I think that, in fact, there is some terrible will or at least some indictment or evidence that people really want a congregation of their own or that they can't see. Last but not least, as I see it, Ninamedia has also done a survey for the Municipality of Kranj poll or a survey of public opinion which has shown that it is against secession of 70 % of the country and of the local community, which is supposed to form a new municipality. People have many references to the referendum as the most democratic form of decision-making, but sometimes we can find that, in any other way, even in the referendum, I will say, kick into the darkness. Finally, one such kick into the darkness was known to everyone and the brexit matter was put on display. If we were to do the same thing today, the same poll, it would probably be quite different. Ask the fishermen in Great Britain how they would now decide about the exit of Great Britain or the brexit situation; perhaps slightly different. At some wave of popularity, or I don't know what we can ride for a while, but then it will be realized that problems and reality are getting very bad, especially in small congregations, where they face a thousand and one problems every day that they cannot solve in some way. They have many infrastructure problems, a small budget and the situation can be much more difficult. I myself will not support the referendum, because I think there is no reason for it; also the legal and legal service has said its own, but still at the back stands actually that fundamental question which everyone is interested in, and especially I am interested in why this initiative has actually occurred. I do not believe that 100, 200, 300, 500 people have gathered together and said - we want a new congregation; but it grew on the herb of two or three, who then somehow drove it into another environment that agreed with it; and so slowly things are moving. In order for this to come from some civil initiative or from some humanity and some fundamental desire of some part of the people to want their congregations because it is really so bad, then I would understand it, but there really is no indictment here, no evidence. On the one hand, there were two representatives from the Civil Initiative, on the other hand the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, three representatives of the local communities and an honourable Member, who were discussing arguments for and against. And I must say, they didn't personally convince me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. He'll be followed by Natasha Sukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The municipality of Kranj is a municipality that grows and develops, and therefore represents the economic, cultural and administrative centre of Gorenjska. And the Gorenjes are very proud of that. And in the SAB, we will always advocate coherent regional development, which we see also through the provision of stable and quality functioning of municipalities and municipal administrations. And, of course, we strive to unite and strengthen the congregations. In addition to this, every time we have legislation, we see the creation of joint municipal administrations. And joint municipal administrations are created because they are individual ineffective; and this is a clear message. As far as the proposal for the establishment of a new congregation is concerned, the proposer did not justifiably justify this, even more so, 70% of the people polled by the establishment of the new congregation were explicitly opposed. The City Council has also spoken, i.e. these are institutions at local level, which are therefore competent and legitimate. And we don't understand the idea of how it came about, who was behind it, what the interests of these individuals are. Somehow we have a feeling that it is individuals who have little time and who have agreed at one of these afternoon’s picnics to have a new congregation, and this initiative has also been articulated. In Slovenia we already have 212 municipalities, and if we see how these municipalities were formed, then we can see that the traveller, the way they were formed, is not good. For example, if we know that the number of mails is declining today, in some congregations or places, they should even stop, then by this logic the congregation, which was established on the basis of the fact that it has mail, should also end or merge with one another. The municipality must address the basic needs of citizens. And I don't see how we're going to give citizens a better service by weakening one strong, functional municipality, dividing it into two municipalities. What's this machine going to be like in the new congregation? Is this just going to be functional? What's the balance sheet going to be? People need to be clearly told that if a new congregation is to be formed, the new congregation must also assume its obligations. And how long will it take for these obligations to be honestly distributed? You know, it will be necessary to tell these citizens clearly where these children, such as children with special needs, will go to kindergarten, where they will go to primary school, how much this congregation will contribute to the maintenance of this kindergarten and school. How much will it contribute to the maintenance of the common health infrastructure? It is not just a territorial principle that determines this, for example, if only a general medical outpatient and a dentist remain in the new congregation. There are a whole bunch of specialist offices that are located in the very center of Kranj. Who's gonna pay for the maintenance costs of the bus station? Do you feel that you can just give up your property? People need to be made clear that this is obviously one of the selfish interests of individuals who have too much time and with such proposals are disturbing the public. In the SAB, we are certainly aware and advocate that the role of local communities is being strengthened, that the congregations have more authority, more responsibility; and this will be gained only by pooling. This proposal, as it was, of course we cannot and will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Chairman. In my view, I have already said everything in general, about the absurdity and precedent of this proposal, in fact, about the abuse that is being done by the Member with this proposal. In fact, the message today has virtually no more arguments. And you know what argument she made? That she advocates direct democracy. Is that right, Member? Let's see how many times in this National Assembly I have put pressure on people to give themselves up in this referendum when it comes to various squeamish subjugationes in the PKP or, say, the 780 million investment in the military bill; and how many times have you supported the possibility of people expressing themselves democratically, what you are up against today. You've been consistently against it every time, and I've consistently been against it every time. But this time I'm against it because it's a serious manipulation, a naked abuse, as we see. You didn't collect, you didn't trigger a petition, you didn't bring any signatures before us with a petition to express the will of the people. Even in your proposal, you mention locations because people have never been aware of your purpose, which are surprised and shocked at what you are doing. And you know what, that the Municipality of Kranj for a consultative referendum, which is not binding at all, would have to pay 90,000 euros, why? For some pre-election campaign of yours, you're going to shoot out a little bit, and it's going to be written about you, and you're going to get your publicity, and I'm sorry, but that's a lot of abuse. It's a lot of abuse. And you can say that a hundred times it's not meant to be, and then please explain it to me in your own way. You're not being followed by people, this congregation wouldn't even have a seat on Golnik, but somewhere else, which is really a win-win for the innovation of your proposal. I really don't understand. And once again, the solution is not in the fragmentation of municipalities, that in the end everyone will have their own kindergarten for the municipality; but in decentralisation, regionalisation and in particular in the consistent integration of citizens and citizens into decision-making processes at the level of existing municipalities. And I'm really stressing again, I don't know if I'm having a little fun, if you're going to go to Croatia to the sea by Buzet, now I've forgotten what it's called, but you've got a restaurant on some hill and I think you've got a school and a few houses. I don't know now, but you'd like to propose such congregations in the future. But you also have – in Greece I saw – the smallest restaurant in the world, it is the same balcony. Dear Member, perhaps in the future you can direct your forces to such an effort that you will make a hill your own and make the smallest restaurant in the world. And this will be your congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposer, Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. If I understand you correctly, colleague Natasha Sukič was the last discusser. I have to respond as a proponent to explain certain things, and I'll go straight ahead. I do not wish to refer again to the content and legal bases which I have already highlighted in the opening presentation. However, I am sure that in this case we must actually pour ourselves some pure wine. I reiterate that this time we are only deciding on the first two stages of a three-phase or four-phase procedure for the establishment of a new congregation. And this is the determination of the fulfilment of the constitutional and legal conditions for the call for an advisory referendum. And today, she was a colleague of mags. Alenka Bratušek pointed out that the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre did not support the Parliamentary amendment for the establishment of the City Municipality of Jesenice. Let me stress here, because I have also said many times on networks, on Facebook and on Twitter that amendments cannot fix all things in marriage, but that amendments can only fix certain things. However, the amendments cannot be corrected in a way that substantially changes the law in order to substantially change the law. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we never said that we would not have supported Jesenic if we had proposed a change of law to become a municipal assembly; but only in this case, we could not have agreed to such a procedure, because in this case it would have been a significant change in the law. Dear colleague mag. Brother, your debate only points to the fact that you do not even know that you have not read any amendments to the 2010 law. It is therefore sad that you are deceiving citizens and citizens with your debate and perhaps also deceiving one of the Members and Members who may not have read this legislation. If they had read it, they would have seen that, despite the ten thousand signatures being collected, they could not have reached the referendum because, in fact, under the new legislation, only a Member or a Member could sign the referendum at all. This was an amendment to legislation in 2010 and is very important. And today it has also been heard that this is a local initiative of some citizens and citizens, or country women and nationals, that they do not have any signatures. This also indicates that some Members did not look at the whole material. Today, two letters were sent to Udis with the signatures of Members and Members, signed by the Municipality of Kranj as the signatures of a civil initiative for the new Municipality of Golnik. And if I read, the civil initiative for the new Golnik Municipality says: "In the civil initiative for the new Golnik Municipality, we were able to recognize the desire of the locals to regulate their local affairs in rural and no longer in the city municipality. We checked and found that the new congregation met all the legal requirements for setting up. At the time of our establishment, we will become the 53rd congregation in size, like Šmarje pri Jelšah. Therefore, we must first express our will in the referendum – as commanded by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. To be clear, we only expect Members to support the referendum. The Constitution is written for all parties, for all Members and for all inhabitants of Slovenia. A vote against the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia would be against. No Member can afford that. Although we do not want to steal anything from the Municipality of Kranj, the response of its authorities was totally inappropriate. We've been dealt with with with lies and insults. It was most painful for everyone to lose their ability to manage our money only in the city’s congregation, and we would lose it. Or that the new congregation is supported only by a handful. Members of the Civil Initiative have checked the will of voters in the field. In Sveti, in the municipality, 10,000 people supported the referendum in writing in very short time. The report by one of the signature collectors says: "In the collection area I collected 70 signatures for the referendum, 2 were against and 3 would consider support. Of the 70 signatories, more than 60 announced that they would attend the referendum and that they would support the establishment of a new Golnik Municipality." We expect more than 90% of the votes for the new municipality in the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, we request your unanimous support for the referendum. But we are already predicting to you that the vast majority of the countries will support the establishment of the new Golnik Municipality. This is how you will deal with our initiative once again, and we expect you to establish a new congregation before your mandate expires. As is the case with the Municipality of Šmarje pri Jelšah, should also apply to the Municipality of Golnik. This is all we want." And they also sent us the signatures of the supporters of the establishment of the new Golnik Municipality. Thus, we see that signatures come both from those who advocate the establishment of a new congregation and from those who do not. The number of signatures, both on the one hand and on the other, proves that the referendum is still needed, since it is only then that the will or desire of people will be clear. At this point, all we can do is listen. And that is what we have done as Members. By submitting a referendum, I myself exercise only the constitutional right of the inhabitants there. However, all further decisions are, of course, in the hands of the country and the countrymen, who will also decide on this at the referendum. All these pressures, actions, and excesses that we are witnessing to today are further strengthening my conviction that the referendum is really needed. Let the country women and the people in the most democratic way, which the referendum certainly is, express their will to manage and carry out local affairs in the future, or to say and decide where they want to live, both they and their successors tomorrow. At the same time, I very much want people to say this independently of political or any other pressure. If we do not want eternal guesses today, do we really want the new Golnik municipality, the country, we must end this story forever in this referendum phase? Let citizens and citizens speak for themselves and decide for all generations in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	I'm not going to the level that my colleague went to, because this level is not worth the National Assembly to me. But since she obviously didn't listen well, I'll say it again. You write the law, you sign 5,000 people under the law, it's written in the Constitution, and you bring it to the National Assembly. This is 50% of the people living in the new congregation. What you changed, what you haven't changed in 2010, it's been going on for a while. I think that we have also decided on some law under which so many signatures have been collected in this mandate; and that is all I wanted to say to you. That's too bad. Once again, it's a shame that Gorenska took such a hard time with the SMC that, yes, in some way, she's violent about it. The Long-Term Care Act – it was no problem for the SMC to vote past the Law-Legal Service on Saturday at midnight. You turned down the Autumn Amendment. Pika. You don't want another strong center in Gorenjska. No, no, no. I'd rather make the town hall weaker. That's the point. That's the point. In fact, it is sad that a member of the congregation who lives in this city and a member who, as she said, has nothing to do with the people of those local communities, has not been elected there. Of course, a fellow man who was elected there succinctly avoids giving his opinion. That's a fellow Grimes. And it would be good for people to hear it. It would be good for people to hear it. At the level of local self-government, people without the National Assembly have the opportunity to bring things to this stage, so that in the National Assembly, we can only make a dot. This was my performance, which my colleague obviously didn't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. There's also a replica of Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Well, dear colleague, what is really not awkward for you to talk about how you stand up for the referendum, about people taking the floor at the referendum. I told you before. You are one of the least credible people in this call by the National Assembly, who can talk about it, because you have not once supported the proposal that people speak about much more important matters in the referendum. Let's talk about the heavy hundreds of millions of investments you haven't allowed to make, but now you're holding on to it. And the more we explain to you that it is the majority, so we see, and the city councillors and the majority are saying against it, you'd still be spending 90,000 euros on the consultative referendum. And I don't understand it anymore. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Members are also not bound to any instructions, so that they are quite independent in their work or should be. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative or a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Urska Ban. He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak with the candidate, Matthew Udowicz? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I would once again call on all fellow Members and Members to say "yes" in the vote, thereby allowing the most democratic right to be expressed in the most democratic way of their will, whether they want a new congregation or not. I would also like to say this when it has been pointed out that the City Municipality of Kranj will have to pay for the referendum. That's not true. The city municipality will not have to pay for this, it will be paid by the State Election Commission and it will not be the burden of the budget of the municipality. Once again, I would like to say that the National Assembly will call for a referendum only if it finds that the conditions for setting up the congregation are met, so there should also be no problems at the second stage of this procedure. With our parliamentary positive decision, we will give the countries and citizens living in this area the opportunity to make democratic decisions about what organisational form of local self-government they want to live, create and work. By also enabling them to exercise their basic constitutional rights, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the fifth chapter. If this is not an argument enough for our positive decision, then I really don't know what else it is. This is particularly important to me at a time when we use every debate or other opportunity and explain to all our mouths how voters should be asked for a new opinion as soon as possible. So let us be honest and give the inhabitants of these places the opportunity to decide directly, without direct decision through the local community’s world, whether they are for the new congregation or not. The outcome of the referendum will be clear evidence of whether they want it, whether they are able to manage it and ultimately deserve it or not. At the end, when we vote, at the third stage, we Members will still decide on the establishment of a new congregation; so that the great legal manoeuvres and other measures are completely superfluous. Of course, an energetic response from the leadership of the mother congregation was expected, but it came only in order to prevent a referendum in any way, which was clearly, publicly stated in the city’s world and other opportunities. It is also true that the Municipality of Kranj has arranged several infrastructure facilities during this time, but all of this is determinedly insufficient to remedy matters in this area and to erase years of efforts to improve living conditions in these areas. Unfortunately, I note that on the right bank of the Kranj Municipality, where I live alone, conditions are no better. Now, let us leave this wrong local policy, so we must send a clear message that constitutional and legal provisions are over local policy and that the leadership of the City of Kranj has no right in any way to obstruct the inhabitants of the planned area of the new municipality in the exercise of their constitutional rights. However, various pressures on individuals from local initiatives or beyond are an act of rejection. Colleagues and fellow Members, I hope you are well aware of the issue of the establishment of new municipalities and do not want to see Ankara again. This is a good lesson and a direction to which we must think and act in matters relating to our local environment. We do not need great legal exercises and other setbacks again, excessive spending of money and energy, but rather give individuals, countries and countries the opportunity to decide in the most democratic way where they want to live in the future and then to listen to their decisions. We really don't need the Constitutional Court for every matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to open a referendum for the establishment of the Municipality of Golnik by excluding part of the Municipality of Kranj in the new Municipality of Golnik, we will decide on Thursday, 25 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. If the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision, it will immediately pursue the discussion on the Proposal for a Decree on the call for a referendum, as part of the remainder of the joint time of the groups, the proposer and the Government. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a decision to amend the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to Damir Orehovac for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	President, thank you so much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The Decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorska therefore amends the title of the seat of the member of the University of Primorska, at the Faculty of Management, from Cankarjeva 5 to Izola Gate 2, all together in Koper. The amendment was subject to the consent of the Senate and the Administrative Committee of the University of Primorska and the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education. The Decree decides that the University of Primorsk must harmonise its statute within three months of the application of the decree and, of course, the decree shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Ivi Dimic Committee. There's no colleague. The views of the parliamentary groups have not been reported. No amendments and amendments to the transitional and final provisions have been tabled to the draft decree. Therefore, the decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the meeting will be taken on Thursday, 25 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. PERFORMANCE OF THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE DETERMINED TO THE ACT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE OBJECTARY PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE COURT OF INJURY OF THE REAL STATE AND THE MORITICAL POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF INJECTION IN THE WORK OF THE SLOVENIAN POLICE, POLICE UNITS, SPECIALIZED POLICE AND INVESTIGATION GROUPS AND THE COURT OF THE COURT OF POLITICAL IMPLICATION MARCH 2020 TO THE DATE OF DEFINITION OF THIS EXTENSION OF THE PROVISIONAL PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION AND TO THE MOBITION OF THE APPLICABLE LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING THE ORGANISATION, ACTIVITIES, MANAGEMENT, OBJECTIVES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE SLOVENIAN POLICE. The proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary investigative committee. I give the floor to the President of the Commission of Inquiry to Rudi Medved for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The Commission of Inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of inadmissible political interference with the work of the Slovenian police, police units, specialised police units and investigative groups and the suspicion of political influence on the course or outcome of forecasting and other procedures shall be limited in its work to the period from 13 March 2020 until the decision of the parliamentary inquiry in question on 29 March 2021. The Commission has therefore adopted a decision to extend the scope under the investigation’s time-limits, as investigations so far have shown that there are reasonable grounds to suspect that politically motivated police personnel are taking place on a permanent basis, i.e. after a cut-off date which interferes with the powers of the Commission. At the same time, investigations have shown that policy interference with the professional work of the police does not end on 29 March 2021, that is, on the day the Commission’s investigative powers end. In certain cases, there is a reasonable suspicion that the police, according to the nature of the policy, in certain cases exceed their powers and disproportionately use their means of enforcement. The result of all of this is that confidence in the Slovenian police continues to decline. Reasoned suspicions related to the purpose and subject of the parliamentary inquiry also exist in the period after the cut-off date. The Commission of Inquiry will analyse, by extending the time frame and by further questioning of witnesses, a longer period of possible political influence on the police. The Commission of Inquiry will also take into account the relevant analyses and responses of civil society and the Ombudsman and other supervisory authorities, particularly in the light of the increased police repression in recent months, even after the time limit within which the Commission of Inquiry is operating. In order to enable the Commission to fully implement the substantive scope of the investigation, where it is also possible to find among the primary investigative tasks that officials and police personnel are subjected to unacceptable political pressure affecting their decisions and, as a result, to organise work in the Slovenian police, and can influence the outcome of forecasting and other procedures; and that staff exchanges from the most responsible to the police have become a permanent force in police management. In view of their adequacy and effectiveness, a longer time frame for the Commission of Inquiry should be defined. This is a direct link between political and police action and the consequences of measures, where the appropriateness of police management and the political impact on it needs to be addressed more precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam Vice President. The situation in the Slovenian police is alarming and we must be concerned. The police are not only becoming a leader, but it is already an extended time frame of the ruling policy. Police policy doesn't just leave fingerprints, it's extremely profound. Many of the employees in the police system themselves attach themselves to this. They say the situation has never been worse than it is now. In LMŠ, we were the initiators of the establishment of an investigative commission, as it is in the public interest to investigate the possible political responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs for allegedly inadmissible political interference between the Minister and his State Secretaries and the President of the Government and State Secretaries in his Cabinet with the work and recruitment of the Slovenian police. It is in the public interest to investigate whether the internal ministry and the top of the police, by political interference, want to prevent or make difficult the work of police units, specialised units and investigative groups and individuals in matters in which their findings could have political consequences due to the involvement of government officials and members of the ruling coalition. So far, the implementation of evidence decisions by questioning witnesses within the Commission of Inquiry confirms that all of this is actually happening; in fact, it is happening to a much greater extent than we thought at the time of the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry. Despite the time constraints due to the imminent expiry of the term of office of this Council of State in the LMŠ, we support the extension of the investigation period, as the current course of the investigation strengthens the reasonable suspicion that the politically motivated recruitment in the police is ongoing, permanent, even after the cut-off date, after 29 March 2021 when the Commission was established. Politics is constantly interfering with the professional work of the police in certain cases, especially when it comes to public opposition to government policy, and police, according to the policy, seem to have disproportionately used force against citizens and the Commission will also be investigating the time frame after this March as part of its mandate. The assumptions expressed in the LMŠ at the time of the establishment of the Commission are confirmed in the current part of the Commission. Witnesses – longtime police officials have publicly exposed police submission to current policies and manoeuvres to prevent investigations involving or representing the entire ruling policy or SDS parties. The resolution of people with high positions in the police takes place without justification, without giving reasons, as a rule with the word “decided”. Policy sets up working groups in which highly qualified staff are withdrawn, thereby insulating people under the pretext of solving migration or police detention. In fact, it is the work and personal degradation of people who are not willing to rule politics. The policy goes so far as to make sure that those in the police task force who are responsible for recruiting the staff of this working group do not know for themselves what these working groups are serving or what they should do or who they are responsible for. For example, it is a very tragic case of the Migration Working Group, in which the then Acting Director-General proposed suspended police chiefs who have never dealt with migration, but who at the same time did not know how to tell them anything or anything, even where they would work. However, he was able to add two other criminals to the committee, who had previously been publicly discredited by the SDS party in Parliament; it is interesting that they both worked in the real estate investigation of Janez Janša, better known than Trent. However, in such a move, all those who are or have held high positions in the police are, of course, sworn to be completely autonomous in their decisions and that policy has no effect on them. Although witnesses can tell that someone, such as Director Travner, was able to tell him behind closed doors of the office that some of the changes were made by politics. Regardless of the faithful implementation of policy orders, some such as Ttrnar and Jurič had to leave their posts. The NPUs have been retreated by the directors' responsibilities set by this ruling policy, and even those loyal bosses have not been able to withstand unrestrained pressure on them. The National Investigation Office has been the target of the ruling parties and their supporters since the beginning until they put an apparently loyal enough political choice there for Petra Grah Lazar. Notwithstanding the fact that the court has restored to this position the retired director of the Maniche that her qualifications for this town are questionable, that even her staff review was disputed, the ruling party has ensured that the NPU is fairly politically and organisationally controlled; this is of paramount importance for the ruling because it investigates matters that are unfavourable to the ruling policy. Among other things, the contested transactions in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, the contested financing of the SDS party, the contested real estate after Janez Janša. And in these cases, criminals are pulled out in the middle of an investigation. There are reasonable suspicions that the investigators, such as Restoration or Snow White, are notified in advance of the house investigations and that the investigations do not appear to move from a dead point in the meantime. So these human resources rhubarbs have achieved the policy objective. Inside the police system, there is uncertainty and fear. Professional decisions are often bad because decision makers do not know whether their decisions will appeal to politicians. Disobedient or underlying are discredited by anonymists, negative staff selection also shows that people are transferred to certain jobs without adequate qualifications, that the career system is pushed aside, that even security checks for such, or loyal personnel, do not mean much. This is therefore happening with the Slovenian police, who have enjoyed exceptional trust and respect among people since the start of this government. Today, this is people's confidence in the police at the lowest level. This bottom was achieved by the SDS party with NSI and SMC supporters in the whole half-second year. And the victims of this are police officers who want to do their job properly with the citizens and don't want nicknames if they're political police. These findings are the product of the work of the Commission of Inquiry so far, and we believe that the time frame of the investigation needs to be extended in the LMŠ, as police politicisation is also steadily expanding. It is important that the Slovenian public knows for all this that citizens will not turn their backs on the Slovenian police, because the ruling policy has taken the top of the police and placed obedient, loyal personnel in decision-making positions. As a result of these few people, we must not allow the reputation of 8,000 police officers and police officers in Slovenia to be tarnished.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thanks again for saying that. Let me start with the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The police, which were heavily trusted by the people of Slovenia recently, are losing support among the people of Slovenia. And I continue from the police website, Vision; proactive police action as a basis for security, trust and satisfaction. I quote: “The police will be given confidence in the public as long as they follow their mission and respect their own values. Trust must be built daily, encouraged and maintained with credible actions and expertise. The success and effectiveness of the police also depends on the level of trust of its employees directly to the superiors and management." Trust between employees is built every day, for years and decades. The citizens' trust in a repressive body is also important. By amending and supplementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, one swing reached the leadership of the police at all three levels of leadership. During the night, decisions were written to terminate the management police functions of 111 commanders or police station commanders, eight police directors and, in fact, all the heads of internal organisational units of the General Police Administration. In the meantime, acting Head of the National Investigation Office of the New York Police Organization and Work Act allows for the leap into full appointment as Director of this important specialised criminal investigation unit at national level to detect and investigate the worst crimes, in particular in the areas of economic, financial and organised crime and corruption. After eleven years of work by the National Investigation Office, all those who have sought to destroy or subdue this institution have succeeded. A gradual intervention by the current government into the work of the police began with the discharge of the largest authorities or public functions in the police. Even with many reliefs and new appointments, in the light of the search for the government of unconditionally dedicated personnel, and not least by setting up working groups or, rather, by putting the problematic staff on the sidelines. And the Government's continuation of the amendment of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which was adopted with the support of coalition Members and Members who did not wish or should not have seen the direction in which the amendments and additions to this Act are going. Unfortunately, these intentions were not recognized by the government even in the State Council. On the basis of the information and hearings so far, there is a reasonable suspicion that there is permanent political motivation in the police, and what is particularly worrying is that it also interferes with the professional work of the police. All of this is for the protection of some or some members of the Government who are in premonition procedures due to various rebuttal suspicions of the services of criminal acts. All of this confirms how right we have had the signatories to the request for the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry or parliamentary commission regarding the identification of possible interference between the current policy and its highest public function holders in the work of the Slovenian police. This is also evident in our intensive work and in the facts found. And since we want the work of the parliamentary investigative commission investigating the possible interference of the current policy and its highest public function holders with the work of the Slovenian police to be carried out comprehensively, it is necessary to extend the scope of the parliamentary commission in full. Also to restore trust in the superiors and in the leadership of the police, and to restore trust in the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In the country, the government has established a state of emergency. The Government does not take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, not the decisions of the courts, its decision is based on decisions, because there is no clear majority in the National Assembly in order to have a peaceful rule of law. The detentions, house investigations and indictments resulting from the alleged crime referred to in Article 302 of the Penal Code are based on the new general use of weapons against meeting organisers, including those which the police voluntarily identify as organisers, even though they do not have official meetings. In short, the police under this government have invented a new technology for disciplining and intimidating crowds. More and more fear and self-government have already pushed us through the brink of fundamental democratic standards. The political subordination of the police and the government through the use of the police by definition means the enforcement of the police state. The police state comes when the regulation of everyday life in the country is done with the help of the police when the police become political police. Let's take a look around us. Police are present on the streets and markets of our cities more than ever after the country's independence, the fences are used for every smallest protest meeting, everywhere we meet police on horseback, police officers with service dogs, police in special equipment, helicopters flying over Ljubljana are our daily, even police divers see in Ljubljana, as if they are still looking for demonstrators in the river. I don't even mention the water cannon and the perfect incineration of Ljubljana. Only a madman could order the gas of Ljubljana's centre with 400 tear gas projectors, for the first time, because it seriously endangered the health of the inhabitants and, secondly, because it used all the ammunition to endanger public order and peace and security of the inhabitants in the event of major violent demonstrations in the future. But that's exactly what happened. And if anyone still doubts, one of the frightening features of the police state is also the arbitral arrests, which has been happening for more time on and after protests. So there's no surprise that people's confidence in the police has dropped dramatically. The people of the police no longer understand as the guardian of the community, but as an extension of the ruling policy. Minister Aleš Hojs and Director General Olaj are attacking autonomy and expertise with the help of brutal political personnel cleaning, cleaning at MNZ, the police, the NPU. They have managed to degrade and replace the shells of all people in key positions, top criminalists and experts sending them to some kind of criminal working group, quiet rooms and replacing them with politically opportunistic and professionally incompetent personnel, such as the new director of the NPU, Petro Grah Lazar, who has written more than nothing in her professional career so far, this is exactly one criminal complaint. In this way, the SDS Party is seeking to neutralize the investigation against all subjects who are at any time, anywhere near the SDS and the coalition; not only that, but the aim of brutal cleansing in the police and the NPU is also a complete subordination to prevent protests against the government of Janez Janša. The methods used by Hojs and Olaj in their raid are different. From the above-mentioned transfers of top staff to criminal working groups to illegal emergency controls at the NPU, permanent conflict with trade unions and violations of trade union rights with a view to disrupting labour organisation within the police, to illegal intervention in investigations at the NPU. This is also confirmed by the testimony before the commission of inquiry. Let me remind you of Hojs' illegal request to review the criminal investigation cases led by the NPU and other illegal guidelines and mandatory instructions to the police leadership with a view to protecting the investigators of the various Snežič Rocks associated with the SDS party. It must be made clear that the attack on the police, its subjugation for political purposes and the objectives of the SDS party, the attack on institutions such as the NPU, which must be autonomous in their operations, is an attack on the country. If I borrow yesterday's findings from a member of the Parliament of Dr. Trčko – what is just happening in the country – it is slowly a reminder of a coup. You will say that I am overreacting, but what else is the establishment of a police state and the complete submission of autonomous institutions, public broadcasting, the attempt to subdue the STA, the attempt to subdue the judiciary, education, now the energy sector. What else are permanent attacks on media, intellectuals, NGOs, the brutal discipline of citizens, including gas and water cannons, if necessary?Oh, my God! What else is the legalization of the modern-day verbal delinquency in the new Penal Code, if not in fact the version of the coup d'état, which, apart from preserving the appearance of parliamentary democracy, even though this coalition is increasingly destabilizing Parliament and playing parliamentary procedures?Oh, my God! How else do you define total cleaning, some kind of lustration in the police? The new law on internal organisation and police work, which the authoritarians of Janša’s government unconsciously donated to the supporters of this coalition, is the last thing an operative and executioner Hojs needed. This novel is legalizing and accelerating what has been happening all along this government – police clean-ups and the final total subordination of the NPU. From the police in this way it is creating a political police, from the state of the police state, from democracy a regime of cowardice, and from the free republic a mafia corporation owned by the SDS party, in which, as we see in the case of the actual energy fracturing, is one of the main employees of the international tax larceny Rok Snezič. With this law, and with the designation of Petra Grah Lazar de facto and de jure, the NPU has become only one of the sectors of the Department of Criminal Police, without the former credibility, without the former authority, without the actual autonomy. The latest chronic evidence of the political subordination of the police and the Slovenian FBI is news from today's newspapers – police are trying to prove the reasonableness of Prime Minister Janez Janša's statement that the protests are responsible for exacerbating the covid-19 epidemic. The suspicion of causing a general risk is investigated by the National Investigation Office, directly involved in the investigation is Director of the NPU Petra Grah Lazar. Thus, at the special wish of Janez Janša, the NPU is working to create new political structures, all to suppress protests, all to stifle the free criticism of the current government. With this amendment of the law, 111 old commanders are now on the run, and the directors of police administration are on the cusp. Yes, all of this, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, is just happening. Are you really blind in Desus's client that you don't see it? Are you deaf so you can't hear it? Do you give up any reflection and analysis of the social situation so that you don't understand? Or you simply fall into the future of all of us, including your grandchildren after all. Within three months, selection procedures will be held for new commanders, chiefs, directors of eight police administrations and directors of GPU administrations. Everything will be resilient and will be set at the wishes of one political option with personnel, a loyal SDS party, who has kidnapped a country that privatises all social systems and sub-systems. But worst of all, he's privatising a repressive apparatus for even more thorough intimidation of citizens. In order for the Commission of Inquiry to fully implement the substantive scope of the investigation and effectively investigate the alleged unacceptable political pressures on officials and police personnel, which may also have an impact on forecasting and criminal proceedings, a longer time frame for its operation should be defined. In Levi, this extension seems necessary to us and we absolutely agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I ask you very much to take into account in the debate that you are decent, respectful, patient and non-discriminatory, that you do not insult your fellow Members or other participants and that you are engaged in democratic dialogue and are not offensive. This is what is stated in Article 8 of the Code of Ethics, which has been adopted. Even for the future, even for some other time, not just for today. There are no reports to the debate, so we are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the representative of the proposalr Rudy Medved gets the floor. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. To remove these three main reasons why the Commission of Inquiry decided to extend its investigation powers beyond 29 March 2021 when the Commission was set up. The first is completely technical in nature. In fact, if the Commission investigates the suspicion of political influence and political cadres and hears witnesses about these matters, 12 of them have been heard by the Commission so far, it is almost impossible because it is a process for both questions and testimony to be stopped at precisely this 29 March 2021. However, since the Commission wishes to act both in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, it is necessary, in some ways, to extend this period after technical pay. The second reason is of a very substantive nature. In particular, the interest of the Slovenian public is very high to clear the background and to investigate the background of the events in the Prešeren Square on 25 June this year and to explore the consequences that have arisen for employees in the Slovenian police after the security management decided to mediate, prevent riots and the infamous removal of yellow jackets. As we know, there have been consequences for some significant ones, including warnings before the termination of the working relationship and the dismissal of the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration and of course what else would have happened. And certainly it is the interest of the Slovenian public, after all, the leadership of the Slovenian police also justified how important the interest is to clear these matters up, and immediately the next day after these events they have already put in place extraordinary control. So in the interest of the Slovenian public, we will try and believe that we will come to the bottom of some of the issues that have to date remained unexplained. And the huge interest of the Slovenian public in this protest is also in Ljubljana on 5 October. The protest, of course, during which we experienced the greatest use of the forceful resources of the Slovenian police in the history of this country, that the public assesses that experts estimate that even within the police, people estimate that the use of these coercive means, including tear gas, water cannons and, more importantly, disproportionate in view of the fact that the people of Ljubljana were affected, although it is not to blame for this incredibly broad intervention, that I do not use any worse expression. And of course, by means of an investigative commission and through the implementation of evidence conclusions, we will try to get an answer to why this happened, what was the policy impact, directly and indirectly, on these events. And we think it's essential to clear this up, so we're proposing an expansion of the work of the investigative commission. And of course, a third very important reason is that the Commission also has the task of identifying the need for possible changes to legislation governing the organisation, operation, management, tasks, powers of the Slovenian police. And right now, just recently, we have witnessed that the ruling coalition has changed, of course, at the request of the Interior Minister or Government, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which in fact broke the organisational police scheme, if I say very innocently that the National Investigation Office is practically, I will not say, decommissioned, but set to the level of a police station, that a free path has opened up for political recruitment also to the commanders or new police station chiefs, in short, to assess both the policy and the considerable part of the public in the Slovenian police. And, of course, in this case, it appears that the Commission will also have to visit the area of possible needs to amend the existing legislation governing the organisation, operation and management, the tasks and powers of the Slovenian police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the first paragraph of Article 9, the second paragraph of Article 1 and the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly ordered an extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation to determine the actual state of affairs and the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference with the work of the Slovenian police, police units, specialised police units and investigative groups and the suspicion of political influence on the course or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the commission of this extension of the relevant parliamentary investigation and for any modification of the applicable legislation governing the organisation, operation, management, tasks and powers of the Slovenian police. The proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is set out in the proposal to extend that parliamentary investigation and introduces this extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation that you have received. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. OF THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO BE DETERMINED TO THE ACT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE OBJECTARY PARALLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE FINDING OF THE REAL STATE AND THE MORITICAL POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CARRIAGERS OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURES RELATED TO THE CIVID-19 EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT AND THE IMPLIMINATION OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS, FOR THE PERIOD OF 13. MARCH 2020 TO THE DATE OF DEFINITION OF THIS EXTENSION OF THE OBJECTARY PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION AND TO THE MOBILE AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICABLE LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING THE COUNTRY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE Epidemic DISEASE The proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation was submitted to the assembly by an investigative committee. I give the text to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Robert Pavšić, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much, chairman. Good evening to all of us here, mate. Several new facts have already proved to be in the work of our commission of inquiry. In addition to the clear denial of the role of the profession in the design of the measures, non-compliance with warnings, as well as professions, before introducing key measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Indicators and direct indications are also clear in the selective and political appointment of their experts in key systems. The evidence procedure or part of the commission of inquiry thus showed the need for enlargement, which the Commission is considering and adopting. Thus, in the evidentiary process, we have recognised the need for a time extension of the parliamentary inquiry, since it is only in this way that we can cover documents that go beyond a certain time frame for only a few days and align this decision with the College of the President of the National Assembly, as the Parliamentary Inquiry Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Investigative Commissions do. In fact, it is a formality that will allow members and members of the Commission to take into account the documentation on the evidentiary procedure for determining the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in controlling the covida-19 epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The Commission of Inquiry has been working for almost a year to identify the potential political responsibility of public function holders for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified limitation of rights in the implementation of measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic. We reviewed a number of documents and heard some of the Witnesses. The Commission was created at the request of the opposition, which also has a majority of its members. We believe that enlargement will not bring the opposition the desired results, so that it will find political responsibility for, according to it, incorrect decisions by the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic. For example, I cite, in the repeated and numerous indications from the discussions in the National Assembly on the excessive physical closure of school premises, as also in the opinion of Dr Ivan Ergen, the expert hired by the Commission, at the request of opposition members, to draw up an executive opinion, that the closure was too long and therefore harmful. Today, mass testing of students and students proves that this was the only right decision, as data show that the highest incidence of infections is in the population from 5 to 14 years. Similarly, other measures that have enabled the control of the epidemic, which have been hit by both central media and illegal protests, are often accompanied by physical and compulsory verbal violence, as well as the unusual conduct of the Constitutional Court. This imposed on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a study and renewal of the measures every 14 days, which, due to the number of communications requested, caused confusion among people who got the impression that nothing was holding up because it was constantly changing. It wasn't like that, but there was an impression. The Constitutional Court also issued a decision on the non-constitutionality of the Law on Infectious Diseases adopted at the time of the Drnovška government 25 years ago. Here was the basis for declaring other measures based on this law as non-constitutional, which, together with the foregoing, led, inter alia, to people's mistrust in measures and vaccination. The government encountered empty warehouses of protective equipment, lack of hospital beds and medical equipment, poor organisation of the health system, threatening to break the health, social and economic systems at the time of its arrival and the simultaneous outbreak of the epidemic. Today – when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite all the obstacles mentioned above, has managed to overcome many obstacles, in particular through health cooperation and other professions, and has managed to maintain surprisingly high economic growth, reduce unemployment and ensure increased enrolment in medical studies, provide 2 billion funds to be invested in the health system in the medium term, and ensure that the health system, through great efforts, currently manages the situation – it is clear that everything speaks in favour of government action. And so the opposition is told that there is no justification for the establishment of an investigative commission to this end, so desperately looking for the possibility of something being found and thus expanding the investigation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we believe that the investigation is legitimate and we do not oppose it. However, in the above-mentioned facts, this seems to us to be a reckless use of time and energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	Members and Members of the Constitution are sovereign in their decisions and we are not bound by any instructions. This is especially true in the work of the parliamentary investigative commission, where we have access to sensitive data, mostly protected by different levels of secrecy. Of course, at work, we cannot prejudge any conclusions. We accept these collectively by voting and we are Members of equal and equal in investigating commissions. Each has one vote regardless of its status, either coalition or opposition, and regardless of the size of the group. As well as the way in which policies are represented in the Commission of Inquiry, particularity is also the individual activity or pro-activity of a member or member of the Commission of Inquiry. Each shall decide how much work will be invested in each stage of the investigation process. However, the most important work will take place in the evidentiary process, which is generally monitored by the public in the form of hearings on public television. However, any conclusions may follow only after the consultation of the Commission in the interim, final or separate opinions. The key is a collective word because the matter must be processed in debates, supported by evidence and ultimately voted on. For this reason, the specificity of the Commission’s members in the public and also among Members of the Commission has led to a repeated lack of knowledge of the legal basis for the conduct of any activity of the Commission of Inquiry. There is even a misunderstanding of the meaningful application of the Criminal Procedure Act. This specifies the means of service of invitations and other documentation to witnesses, suspects and/or experts in order to ensure that all the rights listed above are, in the first place, protected. And in this regard, the Commission makes sense to obtain the powers of the Chamber of Justice not to determine criminal liability or, consequently, guilt, but to identify solely political responsibility; and therefore, witnesses of hearings must be required to attend. This is their marriage obligation, even if they perform the highest functions in the country. Therefore, as a member and President of the Commission, it is incomprehensible to me when political opponents foment the poles with investigative and evidentiary efforts, not for the sake of finding the truth, but for the protection of their own. This is not the purpose and importance of parliamentary investigative commissions. As it has been said, the Commission is merciless after the vote and the Commission has voted that in order to determine the actual state of government control and to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a timely extension of the subject-matter of the investigation is necessary. Therefore, I also thank the members and members who have confirmed this enlargement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the proposalr Robert Pavšič gets the floor. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, for the warning you gave earlier. I mean, the commission of inquiry is specific. No one can make any conclusions; only what was publicly visible on television can be summed up. I apologize in advance, but what we heard in the position of the colleague and the members of the investigative commission before me was an obvious and eclectic prejudication of any decision taken by the Commission. And then it's unacceptable. As President of the Commission, I did not allow this either in the proposal for enlargement or in the additional explanation for enlargement or in the position of the Group of Members. And this procedural and bureaucratic obstruction of the work of the investigative commission is talking about you, not talking about the commission as a whole. I don't know where you get the right to conclude anything on the basis of anything, except what those who have been questioned have said, and she can see and hear all of Slovenia. Therefore, do not talk about the groundlessness of enlargement, not to talk about the despair of searching for the possibility and legitimacy of doing the inquiry commission, because it is not your space or your domain. However, it appears that the actual understanding of both the role and the importance of the commission of inquiry is important. We will talk about the content when it will be the time when either an interim report is prepared or even a final report may be prepared. Although I see that we are almost certainly running out of time, I hope for at least an interim report that we can present to the National Assembly and tell what we have done in a year. Without prejudice and overstepping your powers. I hope that, at least in the final stage of this mandate, we will be able to have a professional attitude and to adhere to the legal framework set out by the State, which Parliament has given us by means of a parliamentary investigation act. We have followed perfectly all the procedures that we have already justified for the second time that we need a longer period of investigation in order to be able to explore, meaningfully and fairly, the potential political responsibility of all involved. All those criminal cases that I myself have detected in the examination of the dossier, I have also reported them as a Member to the relevant authorities. In fact, I am disappointed that this has not happened for the first time to degrade the role of the parliamentary commission as an institution of great importance, great weight and very strong powers. And I now appeal publicly that you no longer do this in the future, because it casts a bad light on all Members and Members, whether they are coalition or opposition. I'm sorry, presidents, but I'm really getting a little peeky. We've done everything, we'll continue to do our work properly. And I thank everyone for their time and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I don't know, I don't think this is the right thing to do, especially since your colleague Rudy Medved has also said some things that just deviate from the standards you just said. Procedurally, Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you, Chairman. My friend Bear runs another commission, Robert Pavšič leads another commission. If you wanted to intervene earlier than the president, you would have intervened first. I've been waiting for you to respond to these, in my opinion, legitimate findings, but you haven't. That's why I responded on my own because it doesn't seem fair. Parliamentary commissions have special status, special power and special care should be devoted to how we use them for political purposes, even though we are looking for political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you, too. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation shall apply to all the same rules of procedure for all investigative committees, including those previously. And I suggest that at least you have the same standards in the LMŠ when using the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the first paragraph of Article 9, the second paragraph of Article 1 and the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly ordered an extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences, in view of the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms, for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the commission and the extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation in question, and for any modification of the legislation in force applicable to regulate the State's action in the event of an epidemic of infectious disease or its consequences. The proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is set out in the proposal to extend that parliamentary investigation and in the Act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation you have received. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 27th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Thursday, 25 November 2021, at 10 a.m. Thank you for being here, nice afternoon and safe to come home. Goodbye. (The sitting was suspended 23.) NOVEMBER 2021 AT 17.08.)
