ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, nice greeting! I'm about to proceed with the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Željko Cigler, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Aljaž Kovacič, Jerca Korče, Jože Lenart, Iva Dimic, mag. Dušan Verbich and Mag. Bojana Mursic by 12 o'clock. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Proposal for a constitutional act on Supplement II. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft constitutional law was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly and received by a report from the Commission. I give my word to the representative of the Constitutional Commission, Mag. For the introduction of the report and the Proposal for a Constitutional Law to Dejan Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, all welcome! On the basis of the decisions taken by the National Assembly of 26 March 2021, the Section of the Constitutional Commission for the Registration of Sign Language prepared the working text of the Constitutional Law Proposal, which was considered by the Constitutional Commission at its meeting on 15 April this year. The content of the Constitutional Law proposal is identical to the content of the adopted position of the National Assembly on the draft constitutional law and is complemented only by editorial and technical aspects, so the title of the article is added. The Constitutional Commission also took note of the explanation of the Constitutional Law prepared by the expert group in accordance with the previous parliamentary constitutional and audit practice. Explanation. In order to assist the Constitutional Court, the professional and interested public in understanding the proposed addition of the Constitution by Article 62a. However, the explanation itself is detailed in the Commission's report. The Constitutional Commission then unanimously adopted the first section, the second section and the text of the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety, with all 19 votes cast by the members and members present. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt both sections of the Constitutional Law as well as the Constitutional Act on Supplement II after a discussion with the necessary at least 60 votes. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. If the National Assembly adopts the proposed text of the Constitutional Law, I will, as soon as the conditions for its examination and adoption are met, submit, on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, a resolution on the promulgation of the Constitutional Law in question for adoption. Respected and respected! On this occasion, allow me to thank the expert group for the entry of sign language, the rapporteur, the deserving Professor Dr Ciril Ribičič and the members of Dr Simoni Gerenčer Pegan, and Dr Marjetka Kulovec for the quality of the work done and the great assistance provided, the Government which has submitted a proposal for the initiation of the procedure for this supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution, interested civil society represented by the initiator of the new Article 62a, is the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia and the Association of Deaf DLANs. Members and members of the Constitutional Commission, as well as all of you, esteemed Members and Members, for proposals to improve the text, debate and all the support so far for the entry into force of the right to freedom of use and development of the Slovenian Sign Language and the language of the Deaf and the free use of sign language of our indigenous national communities in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. Thanks also go to the services of the National Assembly and TV Slovenia and to sign language interpreters, who have enabled the deaf and deaf to follow the entire constitutional and audit debate on the Constitutional Commission as well as the plenary sessions of the assembly and can accompany us today. On this occasion, I should also mention the words of the President of the Association of Deaf Blinders, Mr Janko Plesc, at the meeting of the Commission, that the Constitutional Commission was the first working body of the National Assembly to have ever invited representatives of the deaf to participate in the process of examining proposals for acts and thus gave them the opportunity to participate in the debate at the working body of the National Assembly. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government and all those who accompany us. By adopting Article 62a of the Constitution, Slovenia will be the fifth country in Europe to regulate sign language in its Constitution and the first in the world to regulate the language of the deaf at constitutional level. The free use of both sign languages will thus be constitutionally protected on the basis of further necessary amendments to legislative proposals and other sub-legislative acts on the basis of the amendment of the Constitution, and the new provision in question will also be truly alive and will not only be a dead letter on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introduction of the opinion of the Government, Mr Cveto Uršič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the placement of sign language in the Constitution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Union of Associations of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia and later supported the proposal in society or in the Association of Deaf Blind DLANs. The placement of the Slovenian Sign Language and the language of the deaf blind means a great step towards ensuring equal opportunities and easier integration of users of the Slovenian Sign Language, that is, deaf, deaf persons and persons with sluggish implants and users of the language of the deaf blind into society. The Republic of Slovenia thus follows the commitments of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which it also signed among the world's first at the time of its presidency in 2008. This amendment of the Constitution or proposal is an example of good practice, since, as already mentioned by the President of the Constitutional Commission, Slovenia will therefore be among the first countries in Europe for Austria, Finland, Hungary and Portugal to place sign language in the Constitution and the first country to have the language of the deaf blind in the Constitution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always advocated the rights of the most vulnerable groups and has always supported it, as it is also a proponent, including a change to the Constitution. It is aware that the Government is aware that caring for the most vulnerable is one of the main foundations of a social and people-friendly country. Respected and respected, I therefore thank you all Members and Members for their support for the proposal to amend the Constitution so far, thank the Constitutional Commission and President Dejan Židan for his effective and rapid work and professionally. Thanks to the expert group for their work. Thank you to all disabled organisations especially the Association of the Deaf and Deaf Slovenia and the Association of Deaf Blind Palm for active support, of course, also thank all other stakeholders, all other expert groups for their support so far. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, thank you for your support so far, and I firmly believe that you will end up voting for this amendment to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Igor Zorčič gets the word. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u6	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! On 15 April this year, the Constitutional Commission adopted a final decision on the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the second chapter of the Constitution of Slovenia with regard to the registration of sign language of the deaf and the deaf in our country's highest legal act. By drawing up the text of a proposal for a constitutional law which was drawn up on the basis of the March session of the adopted position on the draft constitutional law to supplement the Constitution, the second phase of the constitutional procedure was concluded and it is now the turn of the National Assembly to adopt the constitutional law in the proposed form. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are pleased that the constitutional audit procedure on the proposal has accelerated that, as President of the National Assembly, I have also helped to enable the National Assembly to decide on the completion of the Constitution until the start of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The proposal to amend the Constitution by the previous Government was tabled in 2019 and is said to conclude the procedure and adopt the proposed constitutional law after a long period of two years. Deaf, deaf, deaf blind and sluggish implanters currently have no equal opportunity to exercise human rights as enshrined in the Constitution, so it is essential to include the right to free use and development of their language. In Slovenia, there are about a thousand deaf people who use Slovenian Sign Language about 450 people with snail implants, about 100 are deaf blind people who use tactile sign language and about 75 000 people use hearing aids. The proposal to amend the Constitution was based on the initiative of their representative organisation, the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, which is why we believe that when it comes to the rights of vulnerable social groups such as persons with disabilities and at the same time the fundamental human right to communicate in indigenous mother tongues, the National Assembly must listen to such initiatives, as the proposal is intended to pursue a noble objective to stop the deaf users of the Slovenian Sign Language and the deaf, who use tactile Sign Language, to provide constitutional legal basis for appropriate measures that will actually enable them to fully exercise human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also includes the right to use its language and writing as part of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Agreement and language and the right to use them are essential for social inclusion and the exercise of fundamental human rights. The need for communication and language and the right to it are essential, as we call human beings. It is also worth mentioning that part of the constitutional law relating to the free use of sign language in areas where both Italian and Hungarian national communities live, so that constitutional change also refers to this minority and adequately regulates their situation in a manner similar to that of all others referred to in this amendment to the Constitution. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will therefore support both the first and second sections of the Constitutional Law and, of course, the Constitutional Law as a whole. We must be aware, however, that this is only the first step in following the equal integration of deaf people into the working and broader social environment, as well as the proper placement of Slovenian Sign Language School space. So let this amendment of the Constitution be a good way forward for all further steps in this area that we are looking forward to in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following position should be read by Mr Ferenc Horváth in the Chamber by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Branko Grimes will present him on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! A particularly nice greeting at this time to all who are concerned with the topic before us today is that of the deaf, the deaf and, of course, the deaf. The story that is taking place today is more than two years from the original proposal for this right to use sign language to be enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. I carried out the first part of this story as the President of the Constitutional Commission at the time of the change of government, which was when we started the procedure, invited all societies to participate, so that we were the first to invite societies to participate, concerning our commission under my leadership and the praise given by Mr Mag. Dean Jedhan, I'd love to. And then we appointed an expert committee and prepared the first foundation. At the outset, the expert commission also proposed a slightly broader consideration of this topic, as was the first proposal, and accordingly the whole text is now somewhat broader than the original idea of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Then there was a change of government, because you know, Charec suddenly left, and the job was after I took over the Internal Policy Committee for a few months, I have to admit that I don't know why, but finally there's a proposal ahead. A proposal that is appropriate, which is understood primarily by the SDS as a gesture, as proof of the will that no one in his or her happiness must remain alone, that Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, means that anyone who is deprived of any objective circumstance is obliged to provide quality, rich life as much as possible and to provide all resources for it. First and foremost, of course, is communication if a person wants to function fully. As a result, it is of paramount importance for those concerned to have the opportunity to communicate in a way that enables them to engage in life, to communicate with the environment, of course to realize their wishes, needs and everything that can help them to be an equal member of the community, because that is really what this is about. The law, the constitutional law as it is now prepared, is, according to our assessment, adequate and concerns the wide enough breadth of this solution that is needed. However, I would like to point out that I do not agree with those who have now said a little that so far these people have been forgotten, because in Slovenia these things are already governed by the current legal order, already regulated by the law, it is now that we raise this to a higher level and further strengthen it. It is a matter of stressing that they also have the right to have all the right, so that the education of the staff required for education in such a form, which then allows them maximum cooperation and inclusion, and of course that it is necessary to ensure what enables them to live normally and that they are equal, I stress once again, an equal member of society, as is the case for every human being, and the State as such is obliged to establish the conditions for doing so. For all these reasons, we will fully support the proposed solutions in the SDS, both as regards the procedure and as regards the Constitutional Law and its text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u10	[[Greetings in sign language]] Now I'm going to ask the interpreters to continue the translation. I started my presentation in sign language, which we could not hear in the National Assembly 30 years ago when this Parliament started its work. Those who were then in the National Assembly who remember what it looked like know that it was very difficult. It was particularly difficult because most people did not really understand what it was about, why it was right. And I remember this day 30 years ago, when the first President of the Republic of Slovenia, Milan Kučan, swore and we worked on the protocol all day, whether the Slovenian Sign Language will be present in the National Assembly or not. In fact, it was not a question of whether it was important or irrelevant, but whether it fits or does not fit; whether it would interfere with the format of the picture on TV because there would be a wave of hands. And whoever follows such a entry - as you know - today is the most common thing in all developed democratic countries - knows that, at the inauguration, the President's oath is a mandatory interpreter of the Slovenian sign language or language they use in that country. You know, 30 years ago, there was also an interesting traveler that helped me to translate Slovenian sign language, women, not even men. The only women were those who understood that it was essentially one of human rights. Today I can list these names, they were from different political groups, it was the Memorial of Hribar, it was Mrs Vika Potočnik, Metka Mencin, who had listened and pressed individual decision makers to release sign language into this temple of democracy. Of course, the bizarreness of the whole story is that the translation could only take ten minutes, and the speech of the President of the Republic was more than half an hour. You imagine someone saying something, and then you shut it down after ten minutes and you say it doesn't matter anymore -- all because of the misunderstanding, what justice actually means, equality before the law, what all the predecessors have said, how necessary and important it is. Moreover, in the last debate in the National Assembly, we have even heard that some are building a monument in this area. Unfortunately, there are no monuments here, but there is a lot of serious blood and fighting for this right to be actually enforced. However, as the President of the National Assembly has said, there will be a thorny path before all of this can be established, to say that, at the time of the adoption of the amendment of the Constitution and of the Constitutional Law at the 2nd point, which we will consider on Tuesday – this is a resolution on the national programme for language policy alone, the Committee, at its consideration of this resolution, has slightly rejected the five amendments, which, without question, has rejected the five amendments that would implement this policy, which we today want to write down for a change to the constitutional law, which means that it is a complete misunderstanding. What rights do we actually want to achieve? Today we are all in favour, but on Tuesday we will adopt a resolution that has shortcomings. Neither at the Ministry of Culture has there been one individual to support these amendments that I would like to understand, so we expect this highly esteemed assembly to correct this mistake, on Tuesday we will not, for procedural reasons, but I also call on the Ministry of Culture to solve this problem, if we are being honest. Why do these changes need to be made? You have to say it out loud. Today, deaf, deaf and deaf people still do not have the right to education in their own language despite the Slovenian Sign Language Act. They have a great deal of listening in their parental institutions, where this language is at home where it is used daily, and as soon as it crosses the university threshold, it is called higher education, and this is already a very big and serious challenge for individuals who deal with the question of whether or not it has the right to do so, but that they do not have the money for such a way of teaching. That is why much more needs to be done in this direction. Let me say last in this National Assembly, many times when we adopt legislation, we are citing and exemplifying, say, the Republic of Germany, how they have it arranged there or in Austria. But this National Assembly will also have to change its websites and take one step forward. There's been a lot of translation on national television, but it's been sitting, as it is today, this point, it hasn't been there for 30 years. We do not have hearing and deaf persons, deaf people cannot follow discussions in the National Assembly, they can only follow on the third programme, but not always and not at all. It is therefore necessary to consider also the reservation of new funds and the adaptation of the website, where the National Assembly will be the first to show that the hearing also has the practical implementation of these changes, which we are working with both the Constitution and the law already in force. Nevertheless, today is an extremely important and special day for me to use of the Slovenian Sign Language, for which I can say almost a national holiday. Even 30 years ago, it was people and people who did not use sign language, but people who for most people were a little behind, some who were poor and merciful and, in fact, from the very beginning, when they were born, it was more or less clear to some that there would be nothing out of them. We are one of the few countries that has at least highly educated people according to the number of users of the Slovenian Sign Language. You need to know that if, for an average citizen, education is crucial and fundamental in order to realize and eventually live a free life, it is even more important for them, because as long as they have parents, as long as they have help, it still goes somehow when they are left alone, and they fight through life with a lack of education, with a flawed and unscrupulous integration into society, it becomes a big problem and the burden of society, so let us reverse the concept of thinking. Don't help them with their money, don't help them with their layoffs. Let's give them a chance to come to their senses just like the rest of us. In the LMŠ Group, we will support this change, and we are really looking forward to it. I personally commend all Members and Members of this National Assembly and all those who have contributed in such a way or in a different way, and you are worthy of this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Just Bevk. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Social Democrats supported the proposal to begin supplementing the Constitution by describing the sign language. We also support the draft constitutional law to supplement the Constitution for 62.a Article of the Constitution sign language and language of the deaf blind. The proposed final text of the Constitutional Law was prepared on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of 18 April 2019 and on the basis of proposals from the Section and the opinion of the Institute for National Affairs. Enrollment of the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution is a reference act primarily for those individuals with hearing and vision problems or both, which makes it more difficult to join the community. How important communication is we have come to know virtually everyone during the pandemic. We were constantly under pressure more negative than positive communication, which certainly also affected the attitude towards the virus of measures and more, so we may only now be aware of how difficult it is for people with hearing, blindness, or even hearing. Many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are facing the handicap of lack of communication and social inclusion. Some, however, later experience this disability due to age or illness. They are unable to participate independently in education and are more difficult to employ. Civil rights and political rights, as well as many other social developments, are more difficult to exercise. The development of communication and language skills is at risk to persons with hearing and visual impairment, and consequently it affects education, cognitive skills and psychological development as well, so now is the time for the right to communication and language for the deaf to be enshrined in the Constitution. Respected, the constitutional audit procedure shall be concluded. Social Democrats have no doubt that the proposed constitutional law with the new 62a will be adopted. However, we are aware that as a society, we will have to take a number of steps to ensure that this right actually applies. It will be necessary to update legislation and draft a law regulating the free use and development of the language of the deaf. Deaf blind people have hearing and vision impairment to such an extent that damaged feelings cannot be replaced. These persons can rely only on senses, touch, smell and taste, but the touch is most important, as with the help of the touch a number of ways of communicating with a person with deaf blindness are implemented, and a person with deaf blindness needs to be accompanied and personally helped to engage in social activities. Using information technology, it is possible to establish different communication, but what we are people of social life is still important for personal communication in the development of an individual. However, under constitutional law and duly prepared legislation, our priority should also be to allow for a wider transmission of sign language and language to the deaf, particularly among the younger. As I pointed out in the introduction, the Social Democrats will support the constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good-bye! In Levica, we welcome the fact that the Constitutional Commission and the National Assembly have managed unanimously to bring to the final stage the draft entry into the Constitution. This is a major and crucial moment, as it is an important change to the Constitution, which is aimed at improving the situation and everyday life for all users and users of sign language, and at least in principle provides them with the same starting point for participation in society. However, in Levica we firmly believe that when it comes to amendments to the Constitution even when it comes to the entry of new rights, it must not be just a symbolic gesture and remain just a dead letter on paper. Any such upgrade or amendment of the Constitution must have rapid and concrete consequences in the sectoral legislation that will bring the new provisions of the Constitution to life. The registration of a sign language in the Constitution must also mean, in practice, an improvement in the area to which the amendment relates. Therefore, we still expect clear and unequivocal explanations and assurances from the Government, which is also the proponent of this amendment to the Constitution, when, how and what rights will be acquired by users and users of sign language. From the additional explanations we have received so far, it is clear that there are still a number of issues open. For example, one of these areas is education. If we want sign language to become really part of everyday life, it will be necessary to change curricula, provide interpreters at schools and universities, introduce new appropriate study programmes and so on. Given that we are already bound by the Conventions on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language, and the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018, the question or state is at stake now any concern for users and users of sign language. As it is said, we strongly support the entry of sign language into the Constitution in Levica, while at the same time we expect from the Government, and of course also from the competent ministries, to provide all the legal grounds, as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner, for this symbolic entry to actually come to life in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will be next in line to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure he's following us somewhere, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that Members and Members of New Slovenia will be pleased to support the proposal of the Constitutional Law to supplement the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! From now on, I hope and expect Members and Members of Parliament to internalise this new 62.a article, which will be enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. What does that mean, we're going to internalize? This means that, as of today or since the entry into force of the new 62a, our discussions in the Constitution will probably have to be somewhat different. If they are such that interpreters and interpreters will not be able to interpret our discussions in sign language, then we do not address one important part of Slovenian society. This is a great task for us, as we understand it in New Slovenia. Agreement and language and the right to use them are essential for social inclusion and the exercise of fundamental human rights. The language is a structured system of characters, words, movements, forms associated with the Slovenian rules and used for communication. Language is a communication system through which we implement the communication process. The sign language is realized by the movements of the hands of the speaker, the notation of the language and the movements of the hands of the listener. Why, in fact, what is actually going on, or will be written in the new 62a article of the Slovenian Constitution, I think it is right to read this, because the public accompanying us probably does not have this material that we have. The free use and development of the Slovenian Sign Language in the areas of the municipalities, where the official languages are also Italian or Hungarian, is guaranteed free use of the Italian and Hungarian Sign Language. The use of these languages and the position of their users is governed by law. Free use and development of the language of the deaf is regulated by law. The need for communication and language and the right to it are essential to man, essential for mankind. Without communication, an individual in society cannot become an effective and productive adult or an informed citizen. The importance of communication and language for hearing impaired persons is so fundamental that the debate on this issue is not admissible. Deaf, deaf, deaf and sluggish children who use Slovenian Sign Language as their indigenous language face obstacles, inter alia, in education, and adults in employment, the exercise of civil rights, political rights, culture and so on. In view of the historical problems experienced by hearing impaired persons, their endangered communication and language skills and educational, social, cognitive and psychological consequences, the constitutional right to communication is legal and necessary. If the Constitution provides for the right to speak, the right to communication and language shall be equal or even greater. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to make an apology on behalf of all of us, because the National Assembly of the previous Monday was unable to adopt a draft agenda or, therefore, a proposal for a constitutional law that we are considering today, on 27 May, should already be adopted on 18 May. Somebody's gonna say yes for nine days and it's not a long time. If you wait 30 years it is 9 days extremely long that I do not even talk about the relationship and the inspection of this important part of Slovenian society. Finally, I would also like to thank everyone, on behalf of the Ambassador of the Nova Slovenije-Christian Democrats, especially all those who have contributed to the adoption of the constitutional law today. I'm sure I'll let someone go, but I want to name some people or groups. Of course, thanks go to both Presidents of the Constitutional Commission mags. Branku Grims and Mag. Diane Jedhan. Thank you to the expert committee that helped us in the Constitutional Commission. Thank you also goes to the Secretary of State of Cvet Uršić of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who, two years ago, wrote in another function a proposal to initiate a constitutional audit procedure with a draft constitutional law on the initiative of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, to which, in fact, special thanks goes here. Thanks also to the Association of Deaf Blind Slovenia. I must have missed someone else, but I repeat my thanks to all those who have made a generous contribution to our decision-making table today on the draft constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Secretary of State! Hello, all of you who accompany us especially deaf, deaf and deaf blind. Persons with hearing impairment are indeed seeking equal social treatment and constitutional recognition of the Slovenian Sign Language. By supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with Article 62a, we will ensure the free use and development of the Slovenian sign language and language of the deaf in the areas of municipalities where the official languages of Italian or Hungarian are also Italian or Hungarian sign language. In Slovenia, there are about a thousand deaf people who use Slovenian Sign Language, which means their first mother tongue. About five hundred people use snail implants, about one hundred deaf blind people using tactile sign language, and about 75 thousand people use hearing aids. The proposal to amend the Constitution was based on the initiative of their representative organisation, namely the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, and we therefore believe that the National Assembly must communicate that when it comes to the rights of vulnerable social groups and at the same time fundamental human rights such as the right to use or communicate in their mother tongue, there is therefore no room and no time for political overplay. The proposal pursues a noble objective to provide, at constitutional level, to deaf users of the Slovenian Sign Language and Deafly Blind Users of the Tactical Sign Language, a constitutional legal basis for appropriate measures that will actually enable them to exercise fully the human rights and fundamental freedoms set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Slovenian Sign Language is not equivalent to the Slovenian language, as it predominates marked ignorance and ignorance of the public. Thus, deaf children today are severely disadvantaged in their education. They learn in a language that is not really their mother tongue. Persons with hearing impairment who use Slovenian Sign Language as their indigenous language thus face a number of obstacles in the areas of education, employment, the exercise of civil rights, political and cultural rights. Slovenia will become the fifth country of the European Union to include the mother tongue of deaf persons in the highest legal act of the country by supplementing the Constitution. In the SMC we thus support the entry of the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution, because despite the legal regime the rights are not sufficiently regulated. We believe and hope that Slovenian Sign Language will be written in the constitution and will be finally recognized as properly protected constitutional matter. It is time to listen to the deaf, the deaf, and the deaf in their tongue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members, Deaf, Deaf and Deaf! In the last two decades, Slovenian sign language has experienced several breakthroughs. In 2002 he received his marriage and in 2014 he received his day, January 2nd, and in 2018 he received an entry into the unfathomable cultural heritage. In 2019 the first Slovenian sign language dictionary was created. All these milestones are now increasingly joined by his entry into the Slovenian Constitution and recognition of the status of the indigenous language of the community which uses this language. Free use and development will not only be provided with Slovenian sign language, but, as has already been said, also with Hungarian and Italian language. Also, the city in the constitution will be left deaf. And if we now feel that this is completely logical and urgent, we do not have to look too far to see that this is not the case. Already in neighbouring Italy, sign language, for example, is still not even recognised in legislation. It is also a eloquent fact that only four countries that have done so will join the Constitution by entering sign language, namely Finland, Hungary, Austria and Portugal. This will enable us, together with them, to draw attention to the importance of this area also to the other members of the European Union, which, after all, is not irrelevant in the light of the Presidency of the European Union in the spring. But we must be aware that we will write only one of the important chapters in the Constitution, and we must follow them immensely. The deaf, deaf and deaf must be created conditions under which their position will be equal to that of hearing or full of sensitive citizens under which they will not feel any different treatment or discrimination in any sphere of public life. The environment in which they live must become much more tailored to their needs and abilities. If we want them to be able to receive better education on an equal footing, so that they can be better integrated into society and thus be able to achieve adequate employment, then a number of changes and steps must follow this symbolic fact, which will bring concrete solutions and the possibility of their application in practice. The labour and employment of volunteers and individuals who have been the main driver for all the progress of this community for many years must be replaced by the care of the State. It is the State which is obliged to ensure continued and systematic care for the development of this language, in particular by providing sufficient resources. The area where key stakeholders are waiting for the most work, which has already been mentioned several times today, is undoubtedly the area of education. Each individual, including all deaf, deaf and deaf, must be able to access knowledge and education. So far, I'm afraid that's not the case. The study of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Associations, for example, showed that 89% of deaf people have the highest secondary vocational school and that less than a percent have academic education. Why is that? The ambition, desire and curiosity of the disabled are certainly not diminished. 89% does not mean that 89% actually wanted to reach only vocational secondary school, but in many cases it clearly shows that their range has been mapped and set unequal conditions compared to the hearing population. To all of us who hear, it is unimaginable that we cannot learn our own language at school, and the same must become reality for sign language users. Especially because the consequences of inadequate regulation as a domino effect affect and mark the entire life of the affected. Weak literacy leads to poor education, and this leads to hard employment. The latter results in a poor and material situation, low incomes, dependence on social assistance and social visibility for life. The possibility of education in their language is therefore necessary. Even though we can all be proud together today that, as a few in the Constitution, we will also include the deaf blind, and because of all the specifics, their language remains an area that will also have to be given a lot of attention. This is particularly important in the fact that deaf blindness is not only a problem for those born with this disability, but it can be a condition that results from an individual’s aging. Given that we are ageing as a society, we must also address this issue from this point of view. All of this will not erase decades of contempt, neglect, oblivion, and possible injustices that have occurred to the deaf, the deaf, and the deaf. To all those who have tried to change this situation and to bring about the entry into the Constitution, I thank you very much on this occasion. I will never forget the moving speeches, comments and thanks we have heard from the deaf, deaf and deaf on our Constitutional Affairs Commission. The proposal for a decision will, of course, be supported unanimously in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will be presented as the last position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u22	Vice President, thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! We are slowly approaching the conclusion of the debate to amend the Constitution, which will leave an important mark on the realization of one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms, this is communication. Language is a fundamental means of communication and manifests itself in various ways. Speechful and obedient communication is common to most people. The deaf, the deaf, and the deaf are severely deprived of information and speech in such a way. Communication with the world in the broadest sense is key to social inclusion, key to full and full-fledged life. It is key in education, in the exercise of civil rights and obligations, in terms of professional competence in the performance of work and thus economic independence. The art of words is the foundation of social life, cultural and artistic participation and so on. In our parliamentary group, we welcome the initiative to recognise sign language as a constitutional category from the outset. We are pleased that the constitutional recognition regarding the use and development of deaf and deaf languages will be extended to the active language of the deaf. The same important role as for Slovenian deaf and deaf means Slovenian Sign Language for minorities living on our soil means Italian and Hungarian Sign Language, so it is also appropriate to include them in the field of the constitutional category. We are all Members of our Group in favour of such an improved record of the constitutional supplement. But I must warn you of the following. It is nice that we will be the fifth European country at formal level, which, in the largest legal act, we provide examples for sign-language users. But not only will we be left with a lot of work and effort to make the users of these languages feel as truly equal in this space. The latter means a lot of work at the legislative level, at the level of the profession dealing with such languages, in the educational sphere at all levels, in communication in administrative areas and could also be listed. In short, all together as a whole society, we are facing the construction of mosaics, better opportunities and opportunities for people who, due to hearing-talking flaws, do not yet enjoy a full life of hearing an equivalent position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We've only got two more interviewers reported. Mr. Jurša, would you like a word to discuss? [[No, no, ……]] Then we conclude the debate because all of the speakers have checked out. And we are moving on to the conclusion of the debate on both sections of the draft constitutional law and on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer are given the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! On behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry of State, the Home Ministry of Disability Care, thank you for all the support you have shown to the amendment of the Constitution when you presented the views of the groups of Members. You all mentioned that this is a big event for a deaf community, for a deaf and deaf blind person. You have all pointed out that this is not only symbolic, but a real change that has been due to developments in the past decades, since the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language was passed in 2002, that we ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2008 and that in 2010 the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities was adopted, which for the first time gave the deaf the right to technical aid. The deaf didn't have that right before. For the first time, the law gave deaf people the right to technical aids. That is why this is one process in which many people have been involved, many groups, and therefore thank all those who have contributed in the past decades to what is happening today, which I firmly believe you will accept with the appropriate majority. On this occasion, I would apologize to Mr Grimes, when I, in my opening address, thanked the current President, Mr Dejan Židan, that I had overlooked that the Constitutional Commission had started its work in 2019, so thank you too, Mr Grims, and the members of the Constitutional Commission in that composition, for your work. Thank you very much once again on behalf of the Government and the Ministry of Field Support so far, and also for the support that I firmly believe in in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Now he gets the floor from the proposer's representative, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished representative of the Government! Thank you also for today's support, because it is good that we protect the historical memory despite all things. I recall that on 14 November 2018, representatives of the Union of the Deaf and Deaf visited the then leadership of the National Assembly, but they are completely irrelevant, it is not important that I was then President, they visited the leadership and then also made a request on the day of the Slovenian Sign Language to assist in the entry into the Constitution. The leaders of the parliamentary groups were also immediately informed about this, and there was a great deal of consensus at this working meeting. The decision to formally draw up the Government's initiative with the administrative apparatus at its disposal was rules. This may also have made the procedure a little easier. It must be said that even the current Secretary of State until you became a member of this section, for which I also thank you, I apologize for not saying so immediately in the first part of the speech. All those who accompanied the work of the Constitutional Commission and the Sectional Commission saw that the path was such that there were some open questions to be answered. This also took some time and some professional discussion and is now being answered to these professional questions. Therefore, in the end, on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, thank you all very much for your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since there is no desire after the debate, we will not go into the time-sharing phase, so I conclude the debate. The vote on the first and second chapters and on the proposal for a constitutional law will take place in full accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and at the same time thank the interpreters for their translation. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT COURT LAW. The draft law was tabled by Mr Jože Tanko, a member of the National Assembly, and I am giving the floor to the proposal to Mr Jože Tank for a further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u28	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye to all of you! In Article 23, the Constitution guarantees each person the right to judicial protection and, in Article 25, the right to a remedy, it is said, to appeal or other legal remedy against decisions of the courts and other state authorities, local authorities and holders of public powers to decide on his rights, duties and legal interests. The last instance on this route shall be the Constitutional Court and, in accordance with Article 162 of the Constitution, may give an initiative to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court any person expressing legal interest, which means that the Constitutional Court shall examine the initiative and, if it finds that the initiator of legal interest does not demonstrate such an initiative. However, if the Constitutional Court finds that the initiator fulfils the legal interest, it is said that there is a legal interest and, in the next step, in accordance with Article 26 of the Constitutional Court Act, it also examines whether the initiative solves an important legal issue. If the Constitutional Court finds that the initiative fails, such an initiative shall be rejected. And only when the Constitutional Court finds that both criteria are met is it said that the initiator has a legal interest and that an important legal issue is addressed by the initiative will the Court take the initiative into consideration and place it in one of the waiting types. If you are, for example, the former President of the Court or the former Minister of Justice, such an initiative shall be considered within a few days, but if you are an ordinary citizen, you may also wait for a ruling of the Constitutional Court for several years. Under the existing law, the Constitutional Court has been examining the procedure for the accepted initiative and, if it finds that the initiator no longer fulfils it, because, in the meantime, due to the length of proceedings in the courts or in the Constitutional Court, it has changed its legal status or perhaps another essential condition, its initiative is excluded from the hearing, which means that the proceedings in the Constitutional Court are concluded on the basis of a procedural and non-personal decision. However, this amendment, which I have tabled, provides that in the event that the initiator fulfils both the conditions for initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court, this is a fulfilment of the legal interest and that an important legal issue is resolved, which the Constitutional Court has decided independently and independently, the Constitutional Court must also make a substantive decision on such an initiative. There are many examples of a change in the legal interest of the initiator. For example, in the case of rights in the labour relationship, when an applicant seeks a right to lose a job, then after a certain period of employment or in the case of family disputes, for example in the exercise of custody over children, children become full-time children at that time or, in cases where the initiator loses a status, I do not know, a student, a student and, in such cases, after the Constitutional Court has established such an initiative, rejects such an initiative. The substance of the proposal is, therefore, that in the event that the Constitutional Court takes the initiative into consideration that it must decide on it and that the fate of the initiative is no longer dependent on the speed and efficiency of the work of the Constitutional Court and that, once adopted, this proposal will also be prevented [[sign for the end of the debate]] , that due to the longevity of the proceedings of such an initiative, by such an approach, when it eliminated the initiatives subsequently, the Court would also, in some way, clear its record and shorten, I do not know, “fate” and reduce “fate”. I believe that human rights must be at the forefront of human rights, that is, human rights, and we know that the Constitutional Court is the key guardian of human rights. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and if so, then the Constitutional Court must also decide on these rights. From the point of view of the Constitution, the improvement of legal certainty and confidence in the judiciary and the rule of law, I assess that this amendment of the Constitutional Court Act is meaningful and necessary, since it adequately concludes the proceedings initiated and expects the decision of the highest authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Justice as a working body by the mother, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Blaž Pavlin, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! At its 26th meeting, on 5 May 2021, the Committee on Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Jože Tanko and published on the website of the National Assembly on 4 February 2021. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Council of State. In the course of the course of business, the amendment was tabled by Mr Jože Tanko, on Article 2. On 5 May 2021, proposals for amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 were tabled by Ambassador Jožet Tank. Mr Tanko presented the proposed solutions to the bill in a supplementary explanation of the articles of the bill. He mentioned, inter alia, that individuals who take the initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia may change their status during the course of the proceedings and that the Constitutional Court, in individual cases where it finds that their legal interest no longer exists, rejects their initiative. He said that the Constitutional Court, when initiating the initiative, checked the existence of the legal interest of the investor of the initiative and whether the initiative constituted an important legal issue. However, following an initiative experiment, a decision-making procedure on an initiative may take several years. He pointed out that the proposal for a law proposed that the Constitutional Court should also decide on initiatives in cases where, during the course of the procedure, it was found that the legal interest of the initiator was no longer given. The draft law also provides that the Constitutional Court shall invite the initiator to supplement the initiative, if this is the only one that is lacking. In a presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Damjana Mlakar, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law from the point of view of its competence and then presented the comments of the Legal and Legal Service in more detail. Among other things, it presented the importance of legal interest, said that the legal interest was a procedural assumption which must be valid in all stages of the procedure, even in the course of the decision-making process, and mentioned that legal protection must be effective and that the proposed regulation interferes with the concept of legal interest itself. In the debate, the coalition MPs said they were in favour of the bill. Among other things, it was mentioned that the Constitutional Court plays an important role as it also decides to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals. They also touched on the constitutional order, the functioning of the Constitutional Court, the decision-making procedure on the initiatives put forward, the existence of legal interest and the importance of the legal question, the longevity of proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the possibility of abuse and rejection of initiatives due to the loss of legal interest. The opposition Member criticised the procedure for examining the proposal for a law and assigning the Government and stressed that the Constitutional Court should be respected. Finally, the proposer provided additional clarifications, inter alia, in response to the position of the Legal and Legislative Service and said that the proposal does not prejudice the constitutional provision nor does it prejudice the decision of the Constitutional Court on the existence of a legal interest and the importance of the legal question when the initiative was tabled. The Committee did not vote on the amendment of Mr Jožet Tank to Article 2 of the draft law, as the motioner withdrew it and adopted the amendments of the Committee to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and voted jointly on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them unanimously. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Dušan Šiško will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The solutions that the proposalr is pursuing seem good to us. The proposer wishes that the initiator no longer have to show legal interest in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court all the time that this procedure takes place, but only when the initiative is being tabled. The Constitution provides in Article 127 that the highest court in the State of the Supreme Court is. It is true that in all court proceedings a general procedural assumption must be made that there is a legal interest throughout the course of the proceedings. We believe that such a requirement is being exhausted to the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court, however, is the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of constitutionality and the rule of law and human rights and fundamental freedoms. Where proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court, we agree with the applicant that it is sufficient that there is a legal interest in the conduct of the proceedings only at the time of submission. It's about nicer conditions than in other cases. The arguments that, therefore, the Constitutional Court should not be unduly burdened, as it should be possible for any instigator to express his problem to the Constitutional Court when it comes to the matter of the matter to be decided. With the proposed amendment, we believe that the interest to have access to the Constitutional Court and to transparent business is being pursued. Simply stated, the Constitutional Court should carry out its task and decide on the matters to which it is responsible, as such action will enrich the case law. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act by supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Slovenia is a legal and social country with the right Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. This means, of course, within the rule of law, that the right to judicial protection belongs to everyone in its entirety. In Slovenia they execute courts as a separate branch of government and, of course, when it comes to human rights, the Constitutional Court is therefore extremely important in the Slovenian legal order. The arrangements we currently have have proved to be flawed in practice. What does it do? That any case that comes before the Constitutional Court survives or has to undergo a rigorous examination, namely a two-stage check. The first legal interest of the proposer and then whether it is relevant, this is considered an important legal question, only in the event that both conditions are met, the Constitutional Court is subject to admission to the hearing, otherwise it rejects it at the beginning of the proceedings. In practice, however, it has been shown that there has been a defect in the way that proceedings in some cases are disproportionately long, the Constitutional Court itself has its own master, it just sets out the procedures, orders, and the shortest autonomy of the Constitutional Court is guaranteed, except in exceptional cases provided for by the Constitution itself and the laws governing this area. However, it was then concluded that due to the length of the procedure some time after the re-examination, it was concluded that there was no longer any legal interest and that the matter was then rejected. What does that mean in practice? This means that a relevant, important legal question, since this test had already had to survive at the outset, did not have an adequate response in the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court, as I pointed out at the outset of the Slovenian legal order, is the highest defender of human rights, thus obviously for some procedural reason the possibility of having access to the effective effective legal protection of its human rights was denied to anyone. This is not good and does not comply with the constitutional standard as set out in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. This should therefore be corrected that once the matter has ceased positively to both levels of verification, it is said that the legal interest is demonstrated and that it is a relevant important legal issue, then the final decision must be reached. Such a proposal is before me and we will fully support it in the SDS. Another reason is that I hope that they will have the single support of all, as is the Committee's. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, we have recently amended the law governing the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, in the part concerning Members. There was also a similar story that a long process had taken place, in the meantime a mandate had changed, and one or more of the Members had not been re-elected or had not been re-elected and had then been subject to the matter at a time when it was re-verified, a sufficient number of signatures, although initially 30 or more had been requested and then rejected. We have now arranged this, this is no longer the case, once the request is filed, it must also be decided definitively, such a law has already been adopted in the National Assembly and has also been published and valid in this mandate. So it would be an extremely bad message if Members were to arrange it, but not for other citizens, because the case here is exactly the same or equivalent only from another point of view, in this case it is a requirement of Members on the basis of the Constitution, in another case it is an exercise of the human rights of an individual before the Constitutional Court again on the basis of the Constitution and under appropriate procedural conditions. For this reason, it is essential, according to our assessment, that this amendment be accepted and that it be ensured, however, that the article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution is truly consistent and that the principle that a form of legal protection is permitted and permitted for everyone within a reasonable time is respected, especially when it comes to a sensitive area of human rights protection, where the last instance of the highest instance in the Republic of Slovenia is the Constitutional Court. We will therefore fully support the proposal in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Constitutional protection has an extremely important position in every legal and democratic country. Access by citizens and citizens to the Constitutional Court is a key defender of their human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, any legal regulation of the Constitutional Court is of paramount importance. The bill before us highlights an important legal procedural issue that will have a major impact on the consideration of initiatives for the assessment of constitutionality and legality and, consequently, on the work of the Constitutional Court. Over the past years, the legislator has been working to adopt a solution whereby the Constitutional Judges themselves decide which matters they consider essential and take them up for substantive consideration. This would reduce the caseload and result in a faster decision-making process. Of course, such a solution also opens up specific professional concerns to be addressed. However, since such legislative changes have not yet been made, we have often witnessed a restrictive interpretation of the legal interest in recent years by the Constitutional Court. Even in initiatives addressing important social issues, individual non-essential procedural shortcomings do not allow them to be addressed. We believe in the letter of Marjan Šarc that an appropriate balance must be found between the accessibility of constitutional protection and the burden of the court. We therefore welcome in some way the debate on possible solutions in this area, but not on the basis of the proposals of one Member, which were created without the cooperation of professional stakeholders. Neither the Government has formally defined itself before the law, nor has the competent ministry been defined. Perhaps the reason why the bill contains a number of controversial solutions, which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its opinion, is that the proposal contains very weak explanations for the proposed solutions; that it introduces a solution which constitutes a derogation from the general concept of legal interest and from the system of procedure in force in all other judicial and judicial proceedings; that it is inconsistent with the Constitution, as it erases legal differences between eligible investors and any initiators; that it regulates matters already dealt with in an appropriate manner by the existing legislation; and that such regulation would further prolong the decision of the Constitutional Court, which would also be expressed in a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. So it is more than obvious that such a legally flawed and constitutionally inconsistent law is not suitable for serious consideration, let alone for adoption. It is also evident that the applicant with the amendments tabled on the committee responsible did not address the key legal concerns. If there is a problem with the long-term resolution of cases before the Constitutional Court, we believe in the letter of Marjana Sarca that it is necessary to take measures first that will strengthen the court financially and human resources. Only then can we seek solutions for changes in the field of constitutional procedure, but not without an in-depth professional discussion of all relevant stakeholders. We will therefore not support the bill in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act without any reasonable grounds, although professional arguments seriously prejudice the Institute of Legal Interest. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that everyone can submit an initiative to the Constitutional Court if they demonstrate their legal interest. However, in the administrative nature of the legal interest as a procedural assumption, it is necessary to fulfil it throughout the proceedings. The bill before us today requires this legal interest only when the initiative is taken into consideration. If the interest of the initiator is later to cease, the court will still have to decide on such an initiative and no longer reject the initiative it has so far. The Constitutional Court will also have to call on the initiator to supplement his legal interest if he fails to substantiate it with relevant documents. We are convinced that the proposed changes to constitutional and non-professional terms and that they undermine autonomy on the one hand and that the independence of the Constitutional Court on the other hand will only add to the burden of the Constitutional Court, which will also affect the effectiveness of its functioning. The purpose of the constitutional requirement is to prevent the initiation of proceedings against regulations that do not concern or affect an individual directly and specifically. The aim of such an arrangement is thus to prevent the uncontrolled burden of the Constitutional Court. In recent years, however, the Constitutional Court has only repeatedly stressed that it is overloaded. The European Commission also notes in its report on the state of the rule of law for 2020, which states that the number of constitutional complaints for the remainder in the Constitutional Court continues to increase. But the procedures are getting longer. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its opinion that, following a new initiative, it will thus have the character of action Popularis and that this concept differs from the concept of the requirement of legal interest set out in our Constitution. The provision of legal interest protects the Constitutional Court from the presence of initiatives. However, the proposed regulation also constitutes a derogation from the system-wide procedural arrangements in force in all judicial and other legal proceedings under which the legal interest is an absolute procedural assumption which must be made throughout the proceedings. The applicant has thus not demonstrated any reasonable grounds for such changes nor has he carried out any comparative analyses or discussions with the professional public. Of course, the Social Democrats agree that the debate on justice and justice is necessary and useful, but let this debate be respectful and objective. The outcome of this debate should be to prepare systemic changes where necessary, together with stakeholders with knowledge and data to produce such changes that will be useful. We will not support the social democrats of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! We have before us a handball attempt by a ruling coalition member to narrow down his wings to the Constitutional Court. The current Government respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court when it suits it and when the decisions of the Constitutional Court are contrary to its expectations, and, as a rule, the enemy rhetoric follows the practice of discrediting it. The government has been dissatisfied for some time with the Constitutional Court's judgment on the legal interest of the initiators. This issue is even more important at a time when, due to contested government measures, initiatives to assess their constitutionality are being taken to the Constitutional Court. In the opinion of the Government and its Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court is well aware of the concept of legal interest, so before us the attempt has established a mandatory appeal by the Constitutional Court concerning evidence to justify legal interest, thereby narrowing down the field of assessment and interpretation of the concept of legal interest and taking appropriate autonomy to the Constitutional Court regarding the regulation of matters of proceedings. [[Incomprehensible]] The number of initiatives initiated by reckless government measures shows that the Constitutional Court must maintain this autonomy in the application of procedures and judgements as far as possible and not vice versa. It is also the only way to adequately protect and protect human rights. The fact is that this Government is operating beyond democratic standards and without a shred of bad conscience, beating constitutional principles and rights on purpose. When we alert the government officials that police officers are breaking the law, they're sending us to court. When we draw attention to constitutionally contested regulations, we are referred to the Constitutional Court. And when there are many initiatives and demands to assess constitutionality in the Constitutional Court, the Government and the coalition MPs are disgusted that the Constitutional Court is not functioning fast enough, and that the poor government cannot effectively deal with the COVID-19 epidemic, for which the coalition is a typical transfer of responsibility. Now the applicants would like to amend the law so that the Constitutional Court should deal with all the initiatives until the end even if the initiator no longer has legal interest, that is to say, an increase in the scope of the work of the Constitutional Court and the Government is always suing that the Constitutional Court is too slow. Completely schizophrenic, as we will certainly not speed up his work by loading an additional part into the Constitutional Court. We can conclude that the marriage proposal is bad, unnecessary, and harmful. It's written in amateurs with the help of whisperers. Its sole purpose is to make it difficult for the initiators to assess the constitutionality and legality of the rules and general acts for the exercise of public powers. We also know why the current Government is so afraid of constitutionality and its actions, because they are always on the constitutionally permissible border, so we will vote against the bill in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The initiative to assess constitutionality or legality is a special institution of our constitutional order. It allows for the monitoring of compliance of laws with the Constitution, as well as of sub-laws with laws and the Constitution. The decision of the Constitutional Court in its assessment of constitutionality directly affects everything as the decisions of the Constitutional Court in these cases have the so-called ‘erga omnes’ effect, meaning that they have an effect on everyone. The nature of the decision on possible unconstitutionality or even repealing laws and other regulations is so important for all citizens and citizens that it is appropriate to consider how to determine legal interest in its regulation. According to the current regulation, for example, the Constitutional Court will not rule on the non-constitutionality of a law simply because the legal interest after the constitutional assessment has dropped, even though this decision would have a significant impact on a large number of people and not just on the investor. The new law changes this in a way that, even in such cases, it is sufficient that the legal interest is expressed only when the initiative is put forward. The novelty also brings a more friendly arrangement to the initiative investor if its content needs to be complemented. Where, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the initiator does not submit the relevant documents, the Constitutional Court shall, in accordance with the amendment, invite the initiator to supplement it. The instigator may thus subsequently complete the initiative with additional documents before the final decision of the Constitutional Court and thereby avoid the situation where the Constitutional Court considers that the documents are not appropriate and rejects the initiative. In the NSI Group, we estimate that the constitutionality assessment initiative is for a specific institution with a broader impact on the content of regulations, which also enables the real power of the Slovenian Constitution in laws and other regulations. For this reason, we will support the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group should be as follows, but I do not see any representative, so that I give the floor to Mr Franco Jurša, he will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The largest body of judicial authority concerned with and overseeing the constitutionality and legality and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is the Constitutional Court. The key competence of this High Authority is to assess the constitutionality of laws and other acts adopted in the National Assembly and to assess the constitutionality and legality of the rules of the executive branch, including local communities. In March 2020, in the National Assembly, we unanimously adopted a bill allowing consistency of the exercise of the right of Members to require a constitutional review of the Constitutional Court for a particular legislative act, whereby proceedings before the Constitutional Court will be brought to an end, irrespective of the change in the number of signatories during the course of the proceedings, as well as in the event of the end of the term of office of the National Assembly. By the time this amendment was adopted, the Constitutional Court had rejected the requirements if only one of the signatories had changed, for example, he was no longer elected as a Member. This time, we have before us a novelty whose purpose in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court is to demonstrate the legal interest only when an initiative is put in place to initiate the proceedings. The current regulation lays down the obligation of expressed legal interest during the entire proceedings, which only the Constitutional Court takes care of after the official duty. If the legal interest is not expressed, the Constitutional Court shall reject the initiative without any substantive determination of the subject matter. In the Desus Group, we fully understand the intention of the proposer, and the position of the Ministry of Justice, which has been defined negatively by the proposal, is also argued. In doing so, the Ministry highlighted the effect of constitutional provisions made on the basis of individual initiatives, only on the proposer of the initiative and not in general, and on the issue of those initiatives which rely on legal provisions which no longer apply, whether they have been amended and would make the decision completely pointless and unnecessarily burden the Constitutional Court itself. In our parliamentary group, we regret that we have not obtained the opinion of the Constitutional Court itself during the legislative process. However, we would like to draw further attention here to another aspect of what it means to adopt such a proposal, namely the non-binding nature of the legal interest. In other procedures where the legal conduct of the proceedings is also provided for only on the assumption of the parties' legal interest in the proceedings. On the basis of this, the Members of our Group will vote in their conscience on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug will be the last to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u46	We will not support this year's Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Law on the Constitutional Court, which was tabled by Mr Tanko in the legislative procedure this February. This is the same novel that the SDS Group wanted to submit last November, but we opposed it as members of the SMC in the role of coalition partners. Last November, the novels with the same content also opposed the remaining coalition partners, Nova Slovenije and Desus. Then the SDS decided on a new tactic - it waited a few months, and instead of a parliamentary group, it was now submitted by only Member Tanko. As you know, this is not the first amendment to the Constitutional Court Act prepared by the SDS in this mandate. Last March, the National Assembly, without a vote, adopted a proposal for a law on the basis of which the constitutionality and legality assessment procedure, initiated at the request of a third of its Members, continued, irrespective of the possible termination of the mandate of any of the Members who signed the request. The proposal has supported quite 88 Members and Members. At that time, it was a decision based on the fundamental constitutional principle of the division of power and the possibility of the legislative branch of power or the opposition in it to require a constitutional assessment of the rules which it considers to be contrary to the Constitution. This time, the intention of the applicants is completely different. The solutions proposed would, according to our assessment, undermine the effectiveness of the work of the Constitutional Court and have the opposite effect. Legal interest is a filter belonging to matters which must be decided by the Constitutional Court. And if we remove this filter or distribute it widely, the Constitutional Court, which is already overloaded today, will have to decide even more matters which, in view of the lack of legal interest of the individual, may not affect him or her at all or affect his or her fundamental rights and freedoms. The proponents' tactics are next. If you want to paralyze the Constitutional Court, load it as much as possible with new procedural requirements and trivial matters. This is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which clearly stated in its opinion: the purpose of the requirement of expressed legal interest is to prevent the initiation of proceedings against rules which do not concern individuals or do not concern them directly and specifically. However, the aim of such an arrangement is to prevent an excessive burden on the Constitutional Court, which would have occurred if anyone, without a specific link to their own legal situation, could have initiated a measurement decision procedure. Legal interest is leverage which brings abstract constitutional control closer to individual control. This also ensures that the Constitutional Court can effectively play its role as guardian of constitutional democracy and human rights and ensures that decisions are taken within a reasonable period of time in cases where the decision of the Constitutional Court in terms of its role and the situation in the constitutional system is strictly necessary. In addition to what the SPS says, we would like to point out that the regulation of legal interest for the introduction of an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of regulations and general acts has been in force since 1994, and has not been attempted in the 27 years by any government, coalition or opposition. In addition, this provision is based on Article 162 of the Constitution, which at the same time governs the proposers, those who have a special position such as a third of Members, the Ombudsman and others, on the other hand, individual citizens and legal persons. For these, the Constitution provides that there must be a legal interest at the time of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was entered into the Constitution in 1991. It is true that the Constitutional Court is not part of the ordinary court and that the proceedings before it are different, but at the same time we point out that the legal interest must be given throughout the proceedings before each court, not only to the constitutional one. Those of you who read the reports on the work of the Constitutional Court know that it is already overloaded today. The overload is noted by both the President of the Constitutional Court and by former Constitutional Judges such as Dr. Petrič, Dr. Ribičič, and many others. By the time the bill was proposed, the Government had not even defined itself. Why? Because the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a negative opinion in government, the SDS or the President of the Government has prevented this. Therefore, today's decision on the bill will also be a kind of test for the coalition party Novo Slovenija and SMC. The vote will show whether the SMC still stands for its Minister of Justice and whether it is a party in principle for New Slovenia and is behind its decision last November or trading with the SDS in principle give the ladies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, i.e. half an hour after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR A SALUTION AND FORCE STOPMENT OF BANKS. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Peter Ješovnik, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u48	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In 2016, a new law was adopted to transpose the European Directive establishing a framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms on the resolution and forcible cessation of banks. This Directive is part of a comprehensive reform of the European Union of the banking sector, the direct cause of which was the global financial crisis of 2018-2013, which has also affected the European Union greatly. The reform has initiated the establishment of a three-pillar banking union on a single control mechanism, on a single resolution mechanism and on a single deposit guarantee system. While the right two pillars of the banking union have already been established and have been in operation for several years, negotiations are still under way to establish the third pillar of the banking union. A single resolution committee as an independent agency of the European Union was launched in 2015 to ensure the effective and consistent functioning of the Single Resolution Mechanism. The Single Resolution Committee shall therefore directly decide on the resolution schemes of the Systemically Important Banks in difficulty, including the decision to use the resolution instruments and the assets of the Single Resolution Fund. A single bank resolution fund has already been set up to finance bank resolution measures whose annual contribution is paid by all banks established in the Member States of the European Union, which are also members of the Banking Union. By 2024, the Bank Rescue Fund will have a target of 1% of the total of all guaranteed deposits in banks, which is approximately €70 billion according to current data. The full reform of the banking sector’s administrative arrangements in the European Union has also established a new principle for bank resolution, namely the resolution of banks by means of shareholders and bank creditors, thereby protecting taxpayers who should otherwise contribute the necessary funds to cover bank losses. In addition, the additional funds to cover the losses of banks which, despite the contributions of shareholders and creditors of the banks, remain uncovered contribute to other banks indirectly through the payment of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. The principle of bank resolution is ensured by the means of its shareholders and creditors, by requiring the bank to ensure that the minimum amount of capital and qualifying liabilities, which is set at a level that is sufficient to cover the total loss that is expected to be incurred by the bank and to recapitalise the bank in the resolution process to the extent that it ensures that the bank can continue to meet the conditions for obtaining authorisation to provide banking services in accordance with the law governing banking. That request was subject to the term MRLE, which means “minimum requirement for capital and qualifying liabilities”. In addition to the MRLE requirement applicable to banks established in the European Union area, a similar requirement was adopted at international level in November 2015 within the Financial Stability Committee concerning the common capacity to cover losses only applicable to global systemically important banks. This requirement also provides that global systemically important banks must at any time have sufficient qualified obligations that, in the event of major financial difficulties, will be sufficient to cover or recapitalise losses. This request was subject to the term TLAC, which means “the ability to cover the losses of the bank”. Since they are among the global systemically important banks subject to the TLAC requirement, including cross-border banking groups established in the European Union, which are also subject to the MRLE requirement, the European Commission, when adopting the TLAC requirements, committed itself to proposing a change in banking rules in order to ensure the compliance of the MRLE with the international TLAC requirement. The amendments were adopted by Directive EU 2019/879 amending Directive EU2014/59 as regards the capacity of investment firm credit institutions to cover losses and recapitalisation. The proposed law therefore introduces the provisions of Directive EU2019/879 into the national legal order, while the existing rules and principles of resolution under the existing law on bank resolution and forcible termination are not being amended in any way, and part of the proposal for a new law are not appropriate or appropriate because of the nomotechnical rules governing the preparation of amendments and the addition of the existing law on bank resolution and forcible termination. The proposed law also does not change in any way the legal regime governing the forced cessation of banks, which is also governed by this law. I suggest you support the amended bill. Mr. President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 58th urgent meeting on 15 May this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for Admission and Treatment following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, SMC and NSI Members of the draft law, to Article 27 of the bill. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill proposal and the background for the comprehensive reform of the banking sector in the European Union. He said that the reform had established a new principle for bank resolution, namely that banks were being disposed of by means of shareholders and creditors, thereby protecting taxpayers' assets. In addition, the additional funds to cover the losses of banks which, despite the contributions of shareholders and creditors of the bank, have remained uncovered contribute to other banks indirectly through the payment of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. The proposed law also introduces the provisions of Council Directive 2019/879 into the national legal order. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had given a written opinion, where it had in particular highlighted the clarity and determination of the law and explained that most of the comments with the amendments tabled had also been taken into account. The representative of Banka Slovenije said that the Bank had worked closely with the Ministry of Finance with expert advice on the drafting of the bill and stressed in particular the complexity of the legal matter. Of course, the most important thing is to harmonise the legal regime with the provisions or with the European Union Directive on the framework for bank resolution. In the debate, a member of the committee took the view that the Directive was being transposed into the Slovenian legal order and that the most important thing was that the possible losses of banks would no longer be paid from public funds were due to state budgets. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted all 27 amendments tabled. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is also an integral part of this report, under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the bill on bank resolution and forcible termination. The financial crisis, according to the International Monetary Fund, has caused the European Banks to lose more than a thousand billion euros between 2007 and 2010, and 8% of the European Union countries' GDP. In response to the severe financial crisis, the European Union's euro Member States have decided to establish a Banking Union based on three pillars: a single control mechanism, a single resolution mechanism and a single deposit guarantee system. The first two mechanisms are already in place while negotiations for the operation of the third pillar are under way. The Republic of Slovenia adopted the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act 2016. However, the solutions adopted at that time in relation to the way banks are rescued and terminated are transposed and not changed in the draft law. The concept of rescue is changing in a way that protects taxpayers because banks will be able to dispose of their shareholders and creditors. The Bank of Slovenia will be responsible for the implementation of resolution tasks in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u54	Your Honor! With regard to the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act under consideration, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided in March to deal with it on an urgent basis. However, the legislative urgency is clearly not due to any emergency rescue in our banking system, but Slovenia is threatened with a capital punishment because it is delaying the transposition of the relevant European directive into its national legal order. The European Commission has already issued an official reminder to Slovenia on 3 February 2021 for the non-notification of the rules for the transposition of this Directive into our legal order. The law before us contains as many as 294 articles and is a new law, so we did not agree to the introduction of an urgent procedure in the LMŠ Group to the college, since it is better to take more than a day to review such extensive legislation. We also do not understand why they have been delayed at the Ministry of Finance for such a long time by entering into the legislative procedure. That is why today we are facing the highest lump sum of up to €980 000 and the possibility of a daily fine, with up to €10 000 per day. Following the collapse of the laws that blocked its treatment, namely the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and the Public Financial Markets Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, it can finally be considered. The draft law fully preserves the objectives and principles used in the preparation of the existing law, as the way in which the proposed law is handled does not change and most of the provisions governing bank resolution are maintained. The same applies to provisions governing the procedure for for forcible termination of the bank, which are fully transposed into the proposed law. The proposal for a law does not substantially alter the powers of the Bank of Slovenia in the area of bank resolution. However, the main content of the changes is linked to certain categories of instruments issued by banks and to the conditions under which these instruments are recognised in meeting the requirements for bank capital and the recognition of qualified liabilities. These requirements become important at a time when the problems of banks and the reasons for their possible deterioration are emerging and with swift and timely measures, it is necessary to ensure the survival of the key activities of banks, the protection of depositors and the stability of the banking system, and ultimately the stability of public finances. The purpose of the bill and the objectives it pursues remain the same – to make sure that banks in difficulty are managed in an orderly and free from the use of public funds, thus preventing the spread of negative effects on other institutions as well as us, citizens and citizens. In the LMŠ, we agree that instruments continue to develop that enable the prevention of the banking crisis, the protection of financial stability and the reduction of the exposure to tax losses we have witnessed in the past. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u56	Your Honor! The Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act constitutes a fundamental insolvency and bankruptcy regulation of the banking sector. It is a response to the financial and debt crisis, it sets out the way banks are resolved in difficulty and the responsibility of owners and their obligations to participate in the losses generated by banks. The essence of this arrangement is to ensure that the bank does not need to be resolved by State intervention in the future crisis. The framework for bank resolution is therefore established at European level, in particular through the so-called BRRD Directive, which was in practice used for the first time before it was legal in 2013, 2014 in the rehabilitation of our Slovenian banking system. Therefore, if anything, this should be the reason for us to adopt changes and additions to the banking rules in Slovenia with a thorough consideration, even if they are in line with the European level of the supplemented Directives. The Government adopted the text of the bill on 24 February this year and sent it to the National Assembly by emergency procedure, in conjunction with the new Banking Act as well. This was based on the deadline for the transposition of the directive which expired at the end of last year and the reminders given by Slovenia due to this delay by the European Commission. The government referred to the severe remedial effects and demanded an urgent procedure. The ruling coalition confirmed such a procedure and thereby prevented the general debate on the proposal of the law while ensuring the procedural possibility of imprecisely supplementing the law with amendments to the end of the procedure. The so-called urgency procedure does not necessarily mean speed, but it may mean impreciseness, superficial debate and exclusion of the public from it. Today we are on May 27th, and the practice of the National Assembly has proved many times that a regular procedure can also be a quick treatment. Even without any urgency, we could hold a possible general debate after the regular procedure of March and consider proposals at the committees and plenary session no later than April. If we had given up the general debate, we would have had another week and the law adopted would have been in force by now. Today, 3 months and 3 days after the deposit, we are considering an extremely extensive marriage package following an emergency procedure due to the difficult remedial consequences, as said by the Government, which is due to delays, due to a maximum of EUR 1 million in fines that Slovenia could pay. Let us recall that, on the basis of the laws that the Government is now replacing with new ones, we have adopted 5 billion additional public debt, supported and sold banks, that these laws are the basis for the decommissioning of so-called subordinates, that we have established the DUTB, which we had to support when we were created with almost 2 billion public funds. The rulers blur their eyes, as well as sightseeing, with a “quasi” urgent procedure of two comprehensive laws, with outstanding consequences for the life and work of all of us. The consequences could be such as to demonstrate public treatment and public participation at meetings. All of this has been prevented by the rulings through an urgent procedure, and we well know that the European Commission is not interested in any of our nits, which we are adopting, but in the deadline for implementation, which this very effective Government has already missed in almost two months. This is not a proper consideration, it is just the way this government works, which consists of packages of laws and forces them to adopt them with delays caused by itself. Any shortcomings in the rules resulting from the incomplete treatment are obviously not of interest to the rulings and mistakes are taking place. For example, a related electoral slum in the correction of the electoral borders deprived the electoral rights of 811 electoral beneficiaries. How many mistakes could be made in this and in the Banking Bill, which together consists of more than 500 articles or, if I rhetorically repeat, how many mistakes are there in these over 500 articles? The answer would be an in-depth and democratic treatment, which the rulings have prevented by abuse of the urgency procedure. For these reasons, we cannot support the proposal for a new law on the resolution and forcible cessation of banks in the Social Democrats Group. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The law builds on the basic pillars of the European Banking Union and the European rules for bank resolution. In particular, the new rules for the rehabilitation of banks are “buy in” [[?]] , which means that the losses of banks are primarily borne by owners and creditors who have replaced the Buy Out principle, which means that the losses of banks are primarily covered by countries. In view of the experience of the debt crisis in 2012 and the current crisis, it is becoming increasingly clear that the European Monetary Union cannot finance, without a banking union, an insurance scheme for bank deposits, a fiscal union with a common budget and a transfer union that would provide transfers for investments in the peripheral members of the European Union. However, there is no significant progress at the level of implementation of the Banking Union, and so far efforts to establish a Banking Union have brought a number of traps that need to be critically reflected. The main purpose of the Banking Union was to break the link between the Member States and their domestic banks. The positive side of this process is that Member States are, to some extent, burdened with the cost of repairing banking crises, and the negative side is that countries are losing all control over their own banking sectors, which increasingly go into private capital, which unfortunately also happens in Slovenia. The main problem is that only one pillar of the Banking Union has been consistently established at EU level, a single control mechanism that has contributed to centralising the supervision of European banks by the ECB. The second pillar was also established, the so-called single bank resolution fund, which is just a toothless tiger. The Fund currently has funds of €37.6 billion, which is significantly underestimated. According to the International Monetary Fund, the losses suffered by the European Bank in the last crisis amounted to EUR 1000 billion. The Fund will therefore obviously not be able to remedy the serious banking crisis at European Union level. The Fund is designed only to assist Member States in extreme need. This way, countries will be able to continue to bear the lion's share of the losses of the banking sector, which will have virtually no impact on the establishment of a single control mechanism. The additional problem is that negotiations in the creation of the third pillar, a single deposit guarantee system without which it is not possible to talk about a serious banking union, do not move anywhere. Compared to the resolution of banks in past crises, which were entirely based on “bailout” [[?]] , which meant socialising the costs of private banks with public money, is a “bailina” mechanism [[?]] While welcome, countries allow an account for at least part of the costs of failed banks to be made available to private owners and creditors of banks. Nevertheless, European rules which, regardless of the situation in each country, command the primate “bailina” over “bailout” may have a markedly negative impact. With regard to these consequences, the proposed law also introduces one positive amendment, which provides that subordinate bonds will virtually no longer be sold to small and uneducated investors. This will avoid a scenario in which, as in the rehabilitation of banks in 2013 in Slovenia, small uneducated investors would also be affected by the cancellation of subordinated bonds. The problem of the rules ordering primate “bailina” is that it will serve to further centralise banking capital in the centre countries with large system banks, particularly in Germany and France. In times of uncertainty, investors will withdraw capital from countries with sub-capitalised banking sectors and move it to the centre, contributing to the additional centralisation and concentration of banking capital in the countries of the European Union centre. Finally, the banking sectors of countries on the periphery may suffer even greater losses due to capital flight, which I end up saying more and no less bank rescue costs for the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction, those who now report the emergency procedure have done nothing or have not done enough to keep this law under the roof long ago. Why even the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act? That is why, colleagues and colleagues, because we have learned something from the last financial crisis in Slovenia and also the European Union. By the way, with the rehabilitation of banks in Slovenia, we have actually spent so much of our taxpayer money that this has caused us at least a 10-year developmental backlog. The latest financial crisis, estimated by the International Monetary Fund, has resulted in losses suffered by European banks between 2007 and 2010, amounting to almost one trillion euro or 8% of the European Union's gross domestic product, including the establishment of a Banking Union, which is a Member State of the European Union that has already taken over the euro’s common currency and can be joined by other Member States of the European Union. The Banking Union is based on three pillars: a single control mechanism, a single resolution mechanism and a single deposit guarantee system. While the first two pillars of the Banking Union have already been established and have been in operation for several years, negotiations on the establishment of the third pillar of the Banking Union are still under way. The legal basis for the establishment and operation of the second pillar of the Banking Union defining bank resolution is, in particular, two acts of the European Union, one Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 and the other Directive of 15 May 2014. In the area of bank resolution, one of the main innovations brought by the new legal regime is the legal enforcement of the rule that the loss of the bank is borne first by its shareholders, if that is not sufficient, as well as by holders of subordinated qualifying banking obligations. If this is not sufficient, the bank's resolution funds shall be provided from the European Bank Resolution Fund, to which all banks established in the Member States of the Banking Union shall contribute. Therefore, the costs of bank resolution are no longer borne by the new rules for the rescue of taxpayers. In Slovenia we have done just that, because of course everyone can take money from taxpayers and throw it into a bank hole; it is now gone. It is important to note here that the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia has not yet been completed. We have recently been leaders of parliamentary groups at Banka Slovenije, in spite of all the parliamentary groups, where we have been told that some 960 million Euros should be prepared plus interest, which means that this is likely to be a huge supply for taxpayers. What are the goals of this law? The aim of this law is to ensure that banks in difficulty are managed in an orderly and unutilised manner and that this prevents the spread of negative influence on other institutions. To this end, the proposed law provides the competent authorities with effective instruments and powers to deal with the banking crisis in advance, to protect financial stability and to reduce the exposure of taxpayers to losses. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Slovenia Group will unanimously support this new Act on the Rescue and Forced Ceasing of Banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on resolution and forcible cessation of banks, which will ensure that banks in difficulty will be managed in an orderly manner and without spending public funds. This will also significantly limit their negative impact on other institutions. The proposal for a new law provides the supervisory banking authorities with an instrument to react quickly in the event of a possible banking crisis and gives them powers to protect financial stability and reduce the exposure of taxpayers. The central entry into our legal order is the rule that the loss of the bank is first borne by its shareholders. In cases where this will not be sufficient, holders of subordinated banking obligations will also be able to do so. In the extreme, if this is not sufficient, the bank's resolution funds shall be provided from the European Bank Resolution Fund, which shall be fueled by contributions from all banks established in the Banking Union. The draft law implements the principles which comply with the EU Directive. This provides that the bank must continuously ensure an adequate minimum level of capital and qualifying liabilities. By means of this mechanism, the bank guarantees that, in the event of resolution of the bank, the funds can to the extent possible be covered by the funds of its shareholders and creditors. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we welcome efforts towards the stabilisation of the banking system. This seems particularly important to us because we Slovenians have extremely poor experience in bank resolution. We are convinced that none of us want bad practices from the past to repeat themselves in one way or another. Slovenia was forced to invest more than €5 billion in the banking system to address the banking crisis at the time of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, which also encouraged a significant increase in our public debt. This was then increased by more than 10 percentage points. In this situation, however, our banking system took place because Banka Slovenije did not respond to it at the time of the expansion, with the exceptionally increased credit demand of businesses and natural persons, and business banks responded to it in accordance with their business interests. Such a serious banking crisis is also the responsibility of those who did not respond in a timely and appropriate manner when the situation could still be stopped. As long as the banking system was threatened with inefficiencies and it urgently needed fresh capital, in the time of the Borut Pahor Government, instead of the urgently needed state recapitalisation, it acted with completely inappropriate ad hoc measures. The aim of the bill, which is therefore before us, is to prevent Slovenia from ever being in a similar banking financial crisis. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that it is the business banks that must bear business damage in such cases and that it must not become the burden of the State budget or taxpayers, so we will support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u64	Have a nice hello to you all. Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! A new law regulating the resolution and forcible cessation of banks brings a new European directive into our legal order. The current mode of resolution and termination remains unchanged, but is complemented by new rules aimed at preventing the financial and banking crisis that Europe has faced decades ago. The new rules introduce the unification of methods to ensure the capital adequacy of banks and their regular reporting of traces of timely supervisory response in the event of financial instability. The law contains a security guard for uneducated investors by setting a minimum value for each qualifying obligation, which is not intended for professional investors, which is EUR 50 000. Such protections have not been provided by uneducated investors who have purchased qualified bank liabilities at bank windows in the past, so in the SAB we are committed to allowing these people to pay their compensation immediately, which is a social correction without being subjected to long and expensive judicial proceedings. However, a key innovation in bank resolution is the application of the rule that the loss of the bank is borne first by its shareholders, if that is not sufficient, by the holders of subordinated bank liabilities. Even if the latter is not sufficient, the Bank's resolution funds shall be provided from the European Bank Resolution Fund, to which all banks established in the European Union contribute. Therefore, the cost of bank resolution is no longer burdened by the new rules of taxpayers. The hierarchy that is being transferred to the national legal order today is the same as it was at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The latest European legislation also provides that the holders of subordinated obligations are to be released to cover the loss of the bank. Let us recall that in 2013 banks were at the brink of collapse and, like other countries, Slovenia had a choice whether to risk the collapse of the financial system, the loss of bank deposits of the population and the economy, to force regularly repayable borrowers to pay their obligations to banks in full, or to recapitalise banks with State aid, taking into account the rules of the European Commission. The fact is, in the banking system, the largest share of bad loans was created between 2005 and 2007, and it is the responsibility of the bankers placed in the positions of state banks by the then ruling politicians. Remember approved loans for tycoon transactions, Zvon 1, Zvon 2, credits for a number of inherited projects where the entire risk of the project was transferred to the bank, as bankers granted loans without adequate guarantee. So when we look back in 2013 and look at the events and effects that followed, the 7-year economic growth, the reputation of Slovenia in the European Union, the development of the country and the abolition of austerity measures, regardless of which side of the hall we are sitting on, we can all conclude that the Government of Alenka Bratušek took a deliberate and real decision in 2013. The same hierarchy of payments as was then used is now being enacted at the level of the whole of Europe. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u65	Thank you. The positions of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u66	Mr Vice President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! The basic review of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, adopted in June 2016, was the fulfilment of the requirement that the Bank should continuously ensure an adequate amount of capital and qualified liabilities. The aim of the law was to ensure the continued implementation of the critical functions of credit institutions and to prevent more serious negative impacts on the stability of the financial system. It was also intended to protect investors on guaranteed deposits with banks and investors on guaranteed claims against investment firms and to protect the assets and assets of customers. On the basis of the curve of experience in the recovery of banking systems after the financial crisis, the European Union is supplementing its legislation in such a way that the volume of these changes is so large that a new law is needed. The mission of the central bank, the Bank of Slovenia, is therefore to ensure the orderly resolution of banks in severe difficulties with the least possible consequences for the economy and public finances. The aim of establishing a resolution mechanism is to shift the burden of possible bank resolution to the banking sector rather than to public finances, thereby reducing moral risk and increasing public confidence or investors in banks. Banka Slovenije is also the custodian of the deposit guarantee system, which has two fundamental objectives, to protect investors and to preserve their confidence in the banking system and a strong and effective deposit guarantee system is one of the important conditions for maintaining financial stability in the country. The proposed solutions in the new law define the powers and responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia, the protection of confidentiality of information and the preparation of solvency assessments, and the development of rescue plans for individual banks or banking groups. Common provisions for the application of rescue measures and for the decision to apply those measures are important. The resolution instruments are specified in four categories - in write-off and conversion of capital instruments, in the sale of business, in the establishment of a bridge bank, and in the instrument for the disposal of funds by transfer to the asset management company. The most important element of the reform of the institutional resolution of banks is the legal determination of the appropriate minimum size of the capital and the qualifying liabilities for all banks established in the European Union, given their size and the risk of the business model they practice. However, the requirement of common capacity to cover bank losses applies to the largest banks, those with a balance sheet total of more than EUR 30 billion. It is essential that legislation on the resolution and forcible termination of banks pursues the objective that the costs of covering the losses and rescue of banks under the new rules no longer burden public funds, i.e. the owners of banks. Finally, a special bank resolution fund to which all banks are contributing money may be used, based in the European Union. Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President, for your respect. Bank crises and bank fractures have shown us in Europe that they have much more power than many of us would imagine, and a great deal of power means in the crisis also a severe impact on the economy and life of people. The latest crisis has shown us how important the banking mechanisms of the major European banks are, even in everyday life. In order to prevent another banking disaster that will ultimately burden taxpayers and small people, certain mechanisms need to be regulated. The three pillars of the Banking Union, the mechanisms for control, resolution and deposit guarantees, were weaker than we anticipated. In particular, the third pillar, i.e. the single stock guarantee system, had to be regulated. The resolution of such large capitalist institutions as banks must by no means be on the shoulders of taxpayers and ordinary people. In the Slovenian National Party, we always welcome laws that protect a small person, and in particular that they should contribute funds to cover the losses of banks. Even though we are very critical of the political structure of the European Union itself, the reality is that we are already deeply involved in the common economy. We are in a banking union, so it is good to cover the measures that will strengthen and protect the common economy, which will strengthen and protect our Slovenian economy. Of course, there is a danger that we will pay Greece again or some other European country if they start their own economy again. However, as mentioned, we are so deeply entangled in the common market that the solutions brought by this law are more positive than negative. We strongly support the fact that the law also tries to prevent any more serious negative impact on the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia. As I pointed out earlier, in the Slovenian National Party, we always undermine proposals that burden the Slovenians, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended draft law were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the draft law will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, following the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second defence of the Banking Act within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Peter Ješovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u70	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! On 4 March 2021, the Government laid down the text of the draft Banking Act and forwarded it to the National Assembly. The basic objective of the proposal is to upgrade the existing Banking Act by transposing Directive 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019, amending Directive 2014/36 as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, supervisory measures and powers and measures to maintain capital in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to summarize briefly further the main solutions covered by the proposal for a law. The latter can be summarized in five contexts. First, solutions already included under ZBan-2, secondly, solutions under the implementation of Directive 2019/878. third, the solutions related to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Fourthly, solutions that provide for the so-called licensing of members of the supervisory authority of the bank. And fifthly, other solutions that will improve the supervisory powers of the Bank of Slovenia, among other things. I would like to introduce these solutions in a little more detail. With regard to the solutions already included in the resolution of the existing Banking Act, it is worth mentioning that they come mainly from the transposition of past directives and remain largely unchanged. At the same time, it is worth noting that these solutions constitute the main part of the new Banking Act. With regard to solutions in the context of the implementation of Directive 2019/878, the solution, which is the main complement to the existing Banking Act in general, is that they address the issues raised with regard to the provisions of Directive 2014/36 on access to the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. In practice, some provisions have not been sufficiently clear and have therefore been interpreted differently or have been found to be too burdensome for certain institutions. The proposed amendments, inter alia, the current regulatory framework, are better coordinated with international development and thus promote coherence and comparability between different jurisdictions. In view of the scope of the changes in this regard, I continue to highlight some key points. Additional capital requirements additionally imposed by the Bank of Slovenia to cover the risks that a bank has due to its activities, including risks that reflect the impact of certain economic or market trends on the risk profile of a bank, shall be introduced. Next. Additional obligations are laid down to ensure adequate internal capital, which should take into account new supervisory stress tests. Next. The use of different capital buffers shall be specified in more detail. Among other things, it shall be determined for the account of the systemic risk buffer. It is determined that the remuneration policy must be gender-neutral, a financial holding and mixed financial holding procedure is introduced, an EU intermediate parent must have two or more institutions established in the European Union, which are part of the same group from third countries, if at least one of these institutions is a bank and whose total assets of a group from a third EU country exceed EUR 40 billion. Last. The Bank of Slovenia shall be designated as a small and non-exclusive bank. With regard to the solutions related to the decision of the courts, the proposal for a law includes two additions. Firstly, work shall be regulated through co-management, which shall be linked to the decision of the Constitutional Court to repeal paragraph 4 of Article 33 of the Banking Act. The provisions of the draft law applicable to members of management bodies shall also apply to members of employees' representatives in the supervisory authorities, as proposed. Secondly, the proposal for a law takes into account the decision of the European Court of Human Rights concerning the provision of new facts and evidence in court proceedings and in this regard the adaptation of the Supreme Court’s judgment. With regard to solutions related to the licensing of members of the supervisory authority, it is new that the approach to the preliminary assessment of the suitability of the supervisory authority and the consequent authorisation to act as a member of the supervisory authority of the bank is envisaged. The latter in the two-tier management system means the supervisory board of the bank and the non-executive members of the bank’s board of directors in the single management system. The other solutions to the bill relate to three amendments. In particular, banks will be paid for a new annual fee for one-time controls instead of two priors for rationalisation of operations; at the same time, a periodic payment of the amount of money shall be introduced in case an unjustified shareholder does not withdraw within the time limit set by the Bank of Slovenia Decision. In addition, a provision on the forced sale of shares to be issued by the Bank of Slovenia shall be introduced if, within 6 months of the power of the decision prohibiting the exercise of rights, the direct unjustifiable holder does not withdraw the shares. Finally, the Government believes that these solutions will further improve the strength of Slovenian banks, which can therefore contribute to the normal lending of the economy and the population and consequently to even greater financial stability, which is particularly important at the time of recovery after the Covid-19 pandemic. The amendments adopted on the home working body further improve the text of the bill. In accordance with the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Vice President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 58th emergency meeting, on 15 May this year, the Finance Committee considered a proposal for a Banking Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC, namely Article 40, and Article 36 of the Law has been tabled by the Left Party. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented a proposal for a law and explained that the proposed law transposes Directive 2019/878 of the Council of the European Union into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. He presented the five content sets governed by the proposal for a law. According to the proposaler, the solutions listed in these five sets - which were also presented in the Government's position earlier - will contribute to strengthening the stability of Slovenian banks, to adequate lending of the economy and the population, and to financial stability, which is particularly important in the light of the response to the covid-19 pandemic. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service provided an additional explanation for the written opinion and explained that most of the comments in the written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The representative of Banka Slovenije presented the reasons why Banka Slovenije supports the proposed solutions and the entire bill. In doing so, it focused mainly on the implementation of the European Directive, on the regulation of the Institute of a Small and Non-Inclusive Bank and on the supervisory part in which changes are partly based on past experience and partly on the implementation of the Directive. In the debate, which was quite short, a comment was made in the opening by the Left Group on the procedure of examination. It was pointed out that this is an important system law governing the regulation of the banking system and important institutions with funds of an estimated amount of EUR 45 billion, and therefore, in their view, it is not considered appropriate to deal with it as a matter of urgency. With regard to the amendment of Article 36 of the Group of Ambassadors, the representative of the amendment stressed that the amendment allows representatives of employees as independent persons under the Act on the participation of employees in management not only to participate in the supervisory bodies of banks but also in the administrative bodies of banks. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance then provided substantive and procedural explanations regarding the dilemmas expressed in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered all amendments. The 40 amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups were adopted and the amendment of the Left Group was not adopted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues and Secretary of State! Experience has taught us that financial crises, in particular those arising from the banking sector or as a result of developments in the banking sector, cause much damage to both the state budget and the real sector or if I am more precise to the economy. Both crises are both financial and economic and have a reciprocal impact on each other. No matter what type of financial crisis we are talking about, there are some qualities that are common to most of them. This is about creating economic imbalances, losing confidence in the monetary currency and hampered or denied access by business entities to funding sources. In order to illustrate what has been said, let me give everyone a familiar fact. Between 2008 and 2014, the Member States of the European Union spent almost two trillion euros in state aid to save the financial sector. In most parts of the population, too, we felt the effects of belt tightening until we almost ran out of holes in it. The European Union has therefore carried out a thorough reform of the regulatory framework with the aim of increasing the resilience of credit institutions and thereby strengthening the financial stability of the Member States. For banks are a key source of funding for both households and business operators. The substance of the proposal that we are considering today is the further reduction of the risks in the banking sector, so that it is not necessary to go back to state aid and taxpayers' money in the event of a new crisis or new crises. Due to a number of amendments, the draft law is prepared in the form of a new law that builds on ZBAN-2, in particular through the transposition of Directive 2019/878 into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the Directive is to address issues that have arisen with regard to the provisions on access to the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. It turned out that these alone were not clear enough and that this led to different interpretations or that they were found to be too burdensome for some institutions. In addition to the ZBAN-2 upgrade, the proposal introduces solutions related to court decisions, where there is clearly a variety of interpretations in connection with the Constitutional Court decision on labour co-administration. The role of representatives in the supervisory board is being regulated, not in the administration. However, instead of criticising the Ministry of Finance, we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the LMŠ Group, but instead of criticising the Ministry of Finance, at the same time because of the delay, we will also recommend that we no longer deal with such important laws in the future at the last moment and so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye. Dear fellows! Everything we have said in the position of our parliamentary group at the previous point, this is the Bank Resolution Act, also applicable to the consideration of the Banking Act. Its dryness and the fact that it is an area where the rules are directed by the European Union should not lead us to realize that there are no consequences for each of us. In view of everything Slovenia has had to stop in the last decade due to bank recovery, there should be no room for complacency in changing the legislative framework. Ihta, urgency and non-criticism in reception have already led to the legalisation of bad solutions and the law on banking is a good example. For example, its adoption seven years ago raises the unresolved problem of subordinates as well as the use of funds for bank recovery. The same law also established a neo-liberal belief disguised in professionalism that financial institutions are not subject to a legal rule of employee participation in management. This prevented them from complying with the Banking Act in force, since the Lawmakers then claimed that the only way to meet the strict criteria for membership in the Supervisory Councils and the Bank's administration was to exclude employees from their circle. Of course, that was a mistake. Your Honor! The Constitutional Court also ruled that the exclusion of employees was irregular and unconstitutional last year. At the initiative of the Board of Workers in Banking, it stated that there is no reason for the law to prevent employees from participating in the management of the banks in which they work. We would imagine that the government coalition, which so much emphasises the need to reverse the decisions of the Constitutional Court, would take advantage of this opportunity and, in the event of the revision of the rules, would also correct this error, which is due to the non-critical adoption of directives. Unfortunately, this area has been completely ignored by the government and in the proposal it maintains the anti-constitutional situation and workers are left without a constitutionally guaranteed right. Instead, we have a new comprehensive and complex law ahead of us, which we have to deal with following an urgent procedure, all because the Government has submitted the law to Parliament more than two months after the deadline for its adoption. The millions penalty that threatens us with delays is negligible compared to the potential billions of dollars worth of damage that could be caused by the superficiality that is always accompanied by urgent and sensitive procedures. Social Democrats cannot assume responsibility for the adoption of such an important regulation, which, at the same time, denies the Constitutional Court's decision, reduces workers' right to participate in management and abuses the necessity of a procedure to exclude interested public from the debate and allows for superficial treatment, all of this because of delays caused by the Government itself. Therefore, in the SD Group, we cannot support the proposal for a new Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The first paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly provides that the urgent procedure for the adoption of laws shall be applied only when it is necessary for the security or defence of the State or for the removal of the consequences of natural disasters or in order to prevent the serious remedial effects on the functioning of the State. On 24 February 2021, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law be dealt with in an urgent manner. The draft law transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 into the national legal order, with the deadline for transposition of this Directive already 28 years. 12. 2020. The Government therefore submits that the unfavourable outcome of the procedure could be a heavy financial burden for the Republic of Slovenia and would therefore have severe remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. The maximum amount of fines for the timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order could be EUR 890 000, according to the Government's assessment. We stress, however, that the Government has had every opportunity to introduce the directive in a timely manner with the amendment of the current law on banking in Slovenia, but it has not done so. Instead, it decided that, under the pretext of catching deadlines for transposition of the directive, the parliamentary procedure will become a completely new banking system law, which will regulate the entire Slovenian banking system, despite any public debate and without consideration on the Economic Social Council. The difficult remedial effects that could have arisen due to inadequate regulation of the banking system are inadequately greater than the consequences that may arise due to financial penalties due to the delay in transposition of the directive. In 2013 and 2014, we spent as much as €4.5 billion of public money to remedy the last banking crisis, which, among other things, was due to inadequate legal regulation of banks. Rather than allowing the Government to make sure that this is not repeated recklessly by adopting new regulatory legislation for the banking sector as a whole. The new Banking Act provides, inter alia, that banks shall not be subject to the provisions of the law governing the operation of workers in the management of the appointment of employees' representatives to bank management authorities, even though the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is 13. 6. 2019 has clearly established that limiting the participation of workers in the management of banks is not in accordance with the Constitution. At that time, the Constitutional Court ruled that the legislator did not justify a reasonable reason for excluding representatives of workers from bank management bodies who would be genuinely linked to the management of banking activities. The government interprets this judgment so that the problem was not in beating the constitutionally guaranteed rights of workers to co-manage, but simply in that the legislator did not give a reasonable reason for this beating. The Government therefore considers that the re-exclusion of employees from the governance of the new Banking Act is justified, as it now cites the allegedly reasonable reasons for the representatives of employees in bank administrations in the view of the Government to have nothing to do in order to ensure effective safe and transparent management of the risks of banks. The government's reference to the specificity of banking activity is by no means sufficient to justify any restriction on the participation of workers in management and does not have relevant legal reasons based on a political decision in favour of capital owners and on the detriment of employment. In addition, it is based on a prejudice that workers' representatives, contrary to capital representatives, are not able to carry out complex bank management tasks, even though it is the types of employees with long-term work experience in the banking system that are often the most competent and professionally qualified to manage and manage bank authorities. Since the privatisation of banks has been carried out in recent years, most ownership of Slovenian banks should be in the national interest that bank workers keep representatives of all bank administrations, since banks are key to the functioning of the national economy. Restricting labour co-ordination to the Supervisory Board alone means a fall in the last counterweight of total foreign capital domination in the banking sector and thus in the economy as a whole, which depends on bank loans. We cannot support such a proposal because of everything mentioned in the left hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, Mr Ješovnik, colleagues and colleagues! In particular, financial crises in the banking sector can lead to high costs, both because of direct fiscal costs and because of the associated costs for the real economy. This was an example of the last financial crisis. There were also major economic losses due to the crisis. Some estimates show that the current value of cumulative losses across the EU can range from 50 to even 100 percent of the European Union's annual GDP before the crisis, from about 6 to 12 trillion euros, if not more. In response to the previous crisis, the European Union has carried out a thorough reform of the regulatory framework for financial services, with a view to enhancing, inter alia, the resilience of the credit institutions of the European Union and thereby strengthening the financial stability of the European Union. The European Commission has thus committed itself, inter alia, in its report of 24 November 2015, to submitting legislative proposals on the basis of international agreements in order to address the weaknesses identified in the current framework of credit rating. This commitment was part of a package of risk mitigation measures aimed at making further progress towards the completion of the Banking Union. On this basis, on 23 November 2016 the European Commission published a proposal for regulatory amendments aimed at finalising the post-crisis regulatory programme, ensuring that the regulatory framework addresses all remaining financial stability challenges while ensuring that banks can continue to support the real economy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this European regulatory framework is found in the new Banking Act. This is actually an upgrade to all well-known ZBan-2. What are the principles of this new Banking Act? The following shall be taken into account within the framework of the proposal for a law. The principle of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of banks, since banks must effectively manage the risks that they or may be exposed to in their operations and establish an appropriate corporate structure by appropriate measures. The principle of the effective operation of banks, since banks have to implement risk management rules in proportion to the characteristics, scope and complexity of the transactions they manage. The principle of prudent and effective supervision, since, in order for banks to operate in accordance with the risk management rules and other rules of sound and prudent management of banks, it is incumbent on the competent supervisory authority which gives it the possibility to impose control measures which can effectively achieve the purpose of control and the principle of compliance with the acquis of the European Union, as it aligns the draft law of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. Colleagues and colleagues, the New Slovenia Group of Members, will unanimously support the Banking Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u82	Dear Members and Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government! We have before us a proposal from the Banking Act, which, because of its integrity, is prepared in the form of a completely new law. In fact, this proposal is to upgrade the existing Banking Act, which introduces in our legal order provisions and guidelines for a more stable and transparent functioning of the banking system. The bill implements the European Directives in a way that lays down rules on access to information on the work of credit institutions while at the same time ordering the rules on prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms more appropriately. In this area, it has been shown in the past that the provisions have not been sufficiently clear. This has led to different interpretations between institutions and, in some cases, disproportionate burdens on institutions. We believe that the founders of this law have properly identified these problems and that the new law is now properly addressed. In order to make the banking system even more stable, the proposal to the banks imposes additional capital requirements that will be proportionate to the amount of risks the banks face. We believe in the Modern Centre Party that banking regulation needs to be established on the basis of economic conditions and that we are aware of everything we have learned about the stability of banking systems during previous crises and that the latest crisis has alerted us to the difficulties that may arise from disproportionate exposure to the risk associated with derivatives. In addition to the higher capital requirements, the capping of financial levers is also introduced in response to this problem. The use of different capital buffers is also specified in more detail. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we understand the proposal of the new Banking Act as part of a prudent effort to create a more stable banking environment, which is also the basis for the smooth functioning of the economy, i.e. businesses and the population. The law also introduces certain solutions related to labour co-management. The proposal thus systematically regulates the inclusion of workers' representatives in the supervisory authorities of the bank, in accordance with the decisions already taken by the courts. In doing so, it commands that working representatives will have to meet the same criteria as other supervisors. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the proposal for a law is prepared in the light of efforts for a more modern banking regime based on the orientations of the European Union and on the best practices of the EU Member States. We welcome the fact that the rules of operation and control of financial institutions are more precisely defined, because we believe that high transparency can only be achieved through clear rules and appropriate supervision, so we will support this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u84	Nice hello to you all! We decide on a new law governing banking. The solutions already contained in the previous Act have been extended and updated in order to implement a comprehensive European directive that continues to improve the legal system of the Union. An effective and unified banking legal system prevents banking instability and strengthens financial institutions. Independently of the directive, the law in the wake of the Constitutional Court decision makes it possible for workers to participate in management in a way that makes them part of the supervisory system and of the Council of the Bank. Legislative changes were also directed by the Supreme Court judgment. Under the new law, provisions are deleted which allow the court to rule in a legal dispute without the main proceedings being held. According to a new case before the court, the complainant will be able to provide new facts and evidence if, without his guilt, he was unable to refer them to the Bank of Slovenia in the first instance proceedings. After a new review, the appropriateness of supervisors will be checked before their function takes place, as it is checked with the members of the administrations. In the SAB, we truly regret that this Government is doing what it has read out to all previous governments by delaying the transposition of directives into the national legal order, which is why Slovenia is threatened with millions of fines. Both the law governing the resolution and forcible cessation of banking operations, as well as the Banking Act, should be adopted by the end of the previous year, as the implementation deadline has expired by 28. 12. 2020. The government's delay in Europe has not gone unnoticed since Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission. Not only does this government have a negative impact on Slovenia's reputation, but it also risks a completely unnecessary burden on the state budget, with a financial penalty, and this is the last thing Slovenia needs today. Explain to the government that the reason for the delay of the epidemic, we can't accept it. The reason for the delay is the wrong priorities of this government, which instead of solving Covid's consequences, focuses its energy on attacks on the media. The transfer of all state property under one roof, the recruitment, interference with the work of repressive authorities, subordination, breakdown of independent regulators, could also be listed. As if this is not enough for this Government not to focus its efforts on dealing with the consequences of the epidemic, it has not even focused on timely transposition of directives, knowing that taxpayers will be carrying an additional burden of high fines due to delays. This is why we call on the Government to take more responsibility for its citizens and to avoid undermining a new record of debt. The SAB Group will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The identification, monitoring and assessment of systemic risks to financial stability and the taking of the necessary measures to limit and prevent them are the main objectives pursued by the new Banking Act, which is identical to the previous law in seven-tenths of the text. The need to mitigate financial cycles and increase the resilience of the financial system to distortions stems from the demystification of banks as rational actors, who, through their operations, perform the optimal allocation of capital. According to this theory, it should not matter who owns the banks because there is an equation between the interests of the financial sector and the social interests. Any attempt to control the financial sector more strongly and limit it would thus become counterproductive by such a theory. Experience shows that the financial sector operates solely in its own interest and that these interests are consistently contrary to the company's development interests. A financial system that is not well controlled can cause enormous damage to the economy and society. This is particularly clear since the 1980s when the financial systems of developed countries were deregulation. Since then, financial systems have produced unpunished financial crises that have not been possible in the previous decades, when there was still strong supervision of financial institutions, to such an extent. The logic and language of the economy, including monetary, must not be undermined by politics and law. This is the Gordy knot that the European Union and Slovenia are trying to cut in it with modified banking legislation. It is crucial to defend the economic sovereignty of countries and the fundamental postulates of a market society where ownership and bonds belong. The proposed Banking Act sets out in detail the areas of competent authorities and the general principles of supervision, the status structures of banks, the services provided by banks, the internal management arrangements and the relevant values of internal capital and capital buffers. Participation of employees is regulated in accordance with the Act on the participation of workers in management, but only in supervisory authorities, but not in the administration through the Institute of Labour Director. Control measures and specific types of supervision shall be laid down, where the decision-making procedures of the Bank of Slovenia in individual cases and judicial proceedings are of particular importance. The supervision of the Bank of Slovenia relates to the provision of financial stability, reflected in supervisory activities where the main objective is to detect risks in all areas of banking and savings operations in a timely manner. Given that the risks are very diverse, credit, liquidity, interest, operational, capital, profitability risks, internal controls and corporate governance, the risks of money laundering prevention, then we can imagine the complexity of effective action in ensuring the stability of credit institutions and the financial system. Or credit institutions will be better capitalised with more stable sources of funding on the basis of the provisions of the new Banking Act, and this will be seen through business processes and processes. Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u88	Nice hello to you all! The bill on banking is very well-designed. The amendments have also eliminated the last shortcomings of the law. The area of supervision and risk assessment of banks will be well regulated. The law is very good for the banking sector and employees in this sector, as it is a well-managed representation of employees in management bodies. The assessment of liquidity and credit risk is urgently needed today. It is correct that large capital institutions such as banks should disclose certain information to the competent international authorities. The regulation of the banking system in Slovenia is variable. The Bank of Slovenia will also be able to function well in the single control mechanism. Representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia estimate that this is a highly anticipated system law that will improve the business environment for banks. The law was properly prepared some time ago and was refined with amendments. We will support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a bill on banking, so-called ZBan-3. The proposal for a Banking Act is prepared in the form of a new law due to a number of amendments and constitutes an upgrade to the current Banking Act-2, the aim of which was to transpose several different directives and regulations of the European Union. The draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order Directive 2019/878 which regulates areas relating to exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, receipts of members of management and control, supervisory measures and powers, capital conservation measures, access to the activities of credit institutions, prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. The draft law transposes the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order and is in line with the legal order of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Planin Roads Act, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first signed by Mateya Udovč. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mateja Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u92	Your Honor! The Mountain Routes Act is not only necessary, but we must urgently change it and complement it if we are to ensure the safety of hikers and the early recovery of our tourism. The direction and development of tourism in our high mountain tourist farms, hills and mountains is the right direction. There are still many development potentials and opportunities for us to increase our visit of domestic and foreign tourists with the right approach, to keep them in tourist destinations for a longer time, to ensure their safety and safety and to preserve nature. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the regulated, safe and maintenance routes of the mountain path are prerequisites for achieving this objective. This matter was regulated by the Mountain Routes Act 14 years ago. In practice, however, the law has proved to be highly deficient in terms of funding. While the law in principle regulates the possibility of a source of funding, it does not specify the mandatory institution of a system funding source. In practice, this responsibility has been shared between different institutions and the main financial burden is borne by the Marquests, mountain societies, the Mountain Union of Slovenia and partly by local communities. It is therefore imperative that we establish a consistent and sufficiently systematic source of funding for this area, and we also need to enable interested local communities to directly finance this activity in their area. Restoring and maintaining mountain paths is a very difficult task, as it is linked to highly trained well-trained personnel, the use of special protective equipment, tools, means of work and transport. In addition, unforeseen events that need to be remedied are emerging. It is precisely for the common reason that we need to provide a constant source of funding as soon as possible so that we can systematically take care of safe and orderly mountain routes. The annual funds of EUR 400 000 provided by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology are intended primarily for training and the acquisition of new marksmen, the acquisition of their protective equipment, tools, means of work and the reimbursement of material costs. However, these funds are not intended in any way to professionalise this work, to carry out various studies and to carry out various projects or to carry out administrative costs. These funds are for the people, these funds are for the Marquests. This means that we will maintain traditional voluntary work in this area as well. The Markacists carry out their work in their spare time and often also with their mainly protective equipment, tools and other means of work, not to mention their own means of transport and transport costs. The voluntary work of the Marquests is also a guarantee that mountain paths will continue to be maintained and safe. Despite all the unpredictable events, these wonderful and loving people have their work as a mission, but they will be very happy if we recognize, evaluate, and upgrade our decisions. The proposal for amendments to the law came across a very favourable response between mountaineers, maracists, mountain societies, the Mountain Union of Slovenia, local communities, competent commissions in the State Council, part of the media and ultimately also at the home committee of the National Assembly. It is therefore high expectations that we will finally manage the systemic financing of mountain routes and thus also the planning and targeted development of mountain tourism. Unforeseeable mountain conditions often require intervention measures, especially the last winter has shown how harsh nature is. As a result of the abundance of snow in the mountains, there have been large pits, large beaches, which have completely destroyed the mountain paths with all the infrastructure at certain sections in the Julian and Stone-Savina Alps. Therefore, it is essential that the law be applied with 1. 1. 2022 and the funds will be released as soon as possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let the mountain paths reunite us and connect us as they have done so many times in history that it will be better for all. Thank you all very much for your support for the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojca Škrinjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mountain Routes Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members, first signed by Mateya Udovč, to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The Committee was provided with a number of material published on the websites of the National Assembly. The Committee was co-sponsored by the representative of the proposer, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Mountain Association of Slovenia. The representative presented the key objectives of the bill. Government officials said the government supports the proposal. In the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, presented at the meeting of the Committee, their representative supports the proposal of the law, since it in particular builds up the regulation of the maintenance of mountain routes and provides a more stable basis for the continuation of the training of marksmen. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. In the opinion of this service, the proposal for a law creates conceptual differences with the applicable law, to which it has delays in its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. In its written opinion, she pointed out that in the case of mountaineering, mountain routes of the PZS and mountain societies for interconnection of legal arrangements, the subject matter of regulation was not sufficiently specified in the law, so that it could be placed under the competence of one ministry. As a fundamental element of the Law-Legal Service in relation to the proposed amendment, the issue of the public authority to finance the Ministry's competence and the overriding nature which it has also specified in its opinion. At the meeting of the Committee, their representative presented the opinion of the PSC and also made comments on the amendments tabled, which only partially follow the opinion and do not address their comments. The representatives of the Slovenian Mountain Association said they supported the bill because, due to the growing visit to the mountains, a more stable way of financing the maintenance and labelling of mountain routes and training of Marcaciists was essential. The Union itself cannot maintain and develop a higher level of overall mountain infrastructure due to high costs. They are aware that the law does not really solve all problems, but it solves the most pressing problems, so of course they support them. In the debate, some members and members drew attention to the problem of non-systemic regulation, the absence of control and the amendments only partially follow the opinion of the SPS, which made a number of comments. While the bill raises important issues that need to be addressed, the solutions are incomplete and it will be difficult to implement the law. Of course, marriage is attractive, it is difficult to reject, but it is certainly a law that should be drawn up by the government at the interdepartmental level. Other discussers considered that the key objective was to ensure a permanent objective of financing for the maintenance and restoration of mountain routes. Maintenance, labelling and equipment of mountain paths are still based on volunteering. Road managers or mountain societies are excused for the reimbursement of material costs for the maintenance, labelling and equipping of mountain routes. However, the law provides that the funds are provided by the competent mountain association or by the mountain association of Slovenia. The financial burden is therefore borne entirely by non-governmental organisations themselves or by individuals of private law. It is evident that 26 mountain paths have no guardians to maintain these paths. They felt that the purpose was certainly true, it was necessary to help the Marquests, the relationships and all mountain visitors to be safe. Lawmakers have warned that the use or walking on mountain routes is linked to risks. Some are subjective in nature and are associated with insufficient physical fitness. The first may be influenced by mountain organisations with so-called soft approaches, while the second cannot be affected by the lack of sufficient resources to maintain the mountain paths. The applicants therefore consider the maintenance activity, the labelling of mountain routes in the public interest, as the protected mountain routes are essential for the safe walking of users, which are more each year. The representative of the Levica Group said that the novels do not support, the fairs are unconstitutional, they believe that they should prepare the government's motions, while the SAB Group will not oppose the bill, nor will they support it in the light of the comments made by the ZPS. The Committee adopted the amendments tabled and its amendments and finally adopted all the articles. A complementary bill has been prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u95	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Robert Rožac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u96	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! The mountain trail network in Slovenia is estimated to be just over 10,000 kilometres away and we also find that the visit to the mountain paths is increasing, and their good maintenance means less risk for mountain accidents. The aim of the amendment is to approach the development of additional measures to support the Mountain Link of Slovenia and mountain societies as guardians of mountain routes. The substance of the proposal for amendments to the law is in the direct state funding, training and fulfilment of Mercacists, obtaining their personal protective equipment, means for their work, material and technical resources, tools and transport. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is responsible for tourism, will thus provide dedicated funds to maintain the mountain routes, thus providing MGRT at the annual level about EUR 400,000. The Ministry responsible for space will have the authority to confirm the spatial representation of the mountain routes provided by the competent mountain association. The categorisation of mountain routes shall be transmitted by a competent mountain association to the Ministry responsible for education. In view of the above and in view of the fact that the amendments, as supplemented by the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mountain Routes, are in line with the opinion of the Government, the Government supports the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Only Bevk has the word to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We probably all agree that today's amendment of the law has a good purpose, this is by additional measures to support the Mountain Union of Slovenia and mountain society and to arrange for smooth and safe use and maintenance of hiking routes. Hiking is one of the most popular outdoor activities among Slovenians. Every year we record a greater visit to the mountains, so it is also appropriate to adapt legislation, to ensure even greater safety of hiking routes and, of course, with the highest level of protection of nature. This place is a place of great gratitude to the Mountain Link of Slovenia and to all mountain societies that have been caring for our hiking routes for many years. The bill thus regulates the smooth and safe use of hiking routes, the protection of Knafelč's marking, the delegation of powers with regard to the regulation of Markacists from the Ministry to the competent mountain link, the proposal of the law complements the legal basis for the performance of the tasks of the Mountain Association of Slovenia with regard to the categorisation of Markacists, the establishment of conditions for entry into the register of Markacists and the implementation of training and the verification of qualifications. According to the proposal of the law, the mountain link will also provide for personal equipment and protective and technical equipment used by markers for the maintenance and labelling of mountain routes. The novel also regulates mandatory funding for the implementation of the training and training programme for Marquests and allows municipalities to conclude contracts directly with the competent mountain NGO and mountain road managers in their area to co-finance the maintenance and labelling of mountain routes. The bill is supported by a number of municipalities as well as the Mountain Union of Slovenia, which says that a more stable way of financing the maintenance and labelling of mountain routes and the training of Marcaciists is urgently needed as a result of the growing visit. It is not right that only NGOs bear the financial burden. Nevertheless, it is important to draw attention to the broad and critical opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out that the proposal for a law is non-systematic and contrary to certain other laws and that the legal status of the mountain association and societies and matter should also be examined in a uniform and comprehensive manner. The current Mountain Routes Act was tabled by Members in 2005, and this proposal is also of interest to us, Members and Members, and it is therefore understandable that the law is not perfect. That is why we would like the Government to show interest in one of Slovenia's most popular sports, and if this proposal is adopted, it will draw up a law that will regulate in a uniform and comprehensive manner the open issues and shortcomings highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Social Democrats will not oppose the bill. We will also contribute a few votes in favour, including my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. In the law that we are considering today, the competence to define the categorisation of marksmen, record keeping, conditions for marksmen and test their qualifications is transferred from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Mountain Union of Slovenia. The implementation of the training programme and the skill test will be fully paid by the State. It is also decided that the State with the Mountain Union of Slovenia will conclude a direct contract for the maintenance of mountain routes and that the maintenance will also be co-financed by municipalities. All powers relating to the selection of mountain road managers shall be transferred from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. It is said that in addition to the two ministries responsible for the implementation of the law, a third ministry is being introduced, as already mentioned, by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Despite noble goals, the law is sadly badly written. This is also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The marriage is bad, and in this case it cannot be fixed as it should be. And even in spite of the mountain of amendments that you will or have already proposed, the law cannot be reformed in the same way as it should be, because it should already be written and pawned entirely, but not that it came like this, I will say, a very critical opinion by the ZPS service. And from what I understand, the government representative was also very critical of the law at the board meeting. However, one absurdity appears, and this is that the SMC party is essentially forcing this law, because you have consistently opposed the opposition because of non-systemic regulation, even when the proposals of laws at all points were in line with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And here in Levica we see the great problem or the biggest problem of this law, that it was in fact not properly regulated as we would like, or as the Legislative and Legal Service wishes. And as the SD Member mentioned, it would be right for the Government to come with a broader and more holistic law on the Mountain Routes Act, on the financing itself and on these matters. With regard to this novelty, very serious questions are also raised, namely with regard to public authority, financing, the powers of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the overriding of this law. In particular, the regulation of this public funding authority is problematic, in particular the latter being particularly problematic, as this law places the responsibility to finance the maintenance of mountain routes, directly at the Ministry, which is the SMC's first party, according to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in the way that this is not carried out through a public tender, but through a direct contract and the initial proposal of the law did not even provide for any supervision, and the amendment introduced some “quasi” control, which should be believed in more concrete terms later on, by contract, between the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Planina Association of Slovenia. The law that we are dealing with today is, in particular, populist and indeed, I will say, aimed at acquiring and activating [[sign for the end of the debate]] voters, because also Mrs. Proposer said very well earlier that these people who have their mission and really have it and deserve it not only funding, but above all better and more committed law, even more, I will say, at the professional level are worked or assigned, but, if you seriously mean what you said before, in your position that they deserve more [[sign for the end of the debate]] and I agree, and we also agree in Levica that they deserve more, it would be right to come up with some new proposal for a law that will then also be given to those people who are really working on the ground, more or more secure. Because of all this, we will vote against the law in Levica, and we hope that you will think again about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u102	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, from where your beauty comes, sings Aussenik in its native song, which is written in the heart of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I have visited many beautiful places in my life, but our hills and mountains are the most beautiful, which we do not like to be attached to by foreign guests and more and more world-renowned media. These beauties could not be seen from nearby without exemplary but truly well-ordered mountain paths, which are regulated and repaired daily by volunteers of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. In the future, the visibility of Slovenia, as tourist destinations, will continue to increase, and so will the number of visitors to our mountains, which is approaching the 2 million. At the 18th regular session of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, on 5 May 2021, Members discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Mountain Routes, which was also signed by Members of New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije we are great fans of mountains and hiking, so we support changes in the law that support the Mountain Link of Slovenia and mountain societies as guardians of mountain trails. The 2007 Mountain Routes Act is weak and inadequate, especially in the work that talks about the Marquests. These are professional workers who care about the maintenance and labelling of mountain paths. The regulation of this area shows the state's attitude towards the mountains, the Mountain Union of Slovenia and the Markacists themselves. The Mountain Union of Slovenia developed into a voluntary, non-profit and civil society organization, consisting of almost 290 mountain societies 130 years ago. The organization itself is spread throughout Slovenia and with 60,000 members voluntarily care for mountain routes. We are aware that there are and will also be volunteers in the future with spines arranged and safe mountain paths. With the proposed law in New Slovenia, we want to financially support material support in regulating mountain routes and for the urgently needed education of Marcaciists, with the plan of the Mountain Association of Slovenia, as a top mountain organization in Slovenia. With the law, we want to support the efforts of several generations of volunteers who have made, equipped and drawn more than 10,000 kilometres of roads in more than 130 years. We have also written in the law very clear safeguards that will require transparent and clear spending of public funds. We want lawmakers to provide permanent means of maintenance and labelling of mountain routes, to provide financial and organisational training for Markers and to provide Markers with basic equipment to carry out their work. Under the new law, funding will be governed by a direct contract of up to EUR 400,000. This amount should not only be seen as a cost, but as an investment for the restoration of mountain paths, which will increase interest in Slovenian mountains. This will also benefit other areas in the country, as it brings me additional jobs to others. Many Slovenians go to the mountains, so we can say that we are a mountain nation. Our mountains also attract a lot of foreign visitors, because we have a beautiful nature, but also mountain infrastructure and roads, without attention, are destroyed and even become dangerous. Thank you to the Marquests who have been free of charge so far. Their heart rate is immeasurable. The Group will unanimously support the proposal of the Mountain Routes Act and the proposed amendments to the coalition. We hikers are always happy in the hills when we meet someone, so we always say good-bye and wish them luck. I wish you a beautiful sunny day and good luck. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today, I will be happy to present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Our colleague, Mateja Udovč, has embarked on all important and current topics for all Slovenes. A theme that must unite us as a mountain nation and connect us. So we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Mountain Routes Act. The current Law on Roadways was adopted 14 years ago. This difficult and more plastic issue has been quite properly regulated in it, but in time it has proved that the law has a great weakness because it has not regulated systemic funding despite the fact that the law clearly lists the holders of individual tasks and activities, and in all these years no one has provided the means for their implementation, so we want to provide a system-wide source of funding through the amendment of the law, which will be constant and sufficiently extensive for the implementation of all statutory tasks in the first place, primarily for the regulation, maintenance and restoration of mountain routes. In achieving this goal, the most important personnel are Marcaciists, who care for about 10,000 kilometres of mountain routes, but they face population ageing, as the average age is 56 years old and the lack of candidates for this work. There are currently about 770 registered. The Mountain Association of Slovenia estimates that at least 250 more would be needed. The Markazis must be properly trained and provided with personal and protective equipment to carry out this activity. They also need to provide tools and other necessary resources for this work, such as the safety of cylinders. To date, they have used their personal and protective equipment, means of transport and means of work and, ultimately, they also need to be provided with financial resources to reimburse transport and nutrition costs. The proposed changes in the novel link the regulation and maintenance of mountain paths with the development of mountain tourism. Minister responsible for Tourism Mr. Hello Restoršek is the only minister who has so far recognized the synergies of these areas for the successful economic development of Slovenia, and has also taken over the obligation to provide systemic funds for these purposes without reservation. The strategic direction of tourism in high mountain farms, hills and mountains is certainly a step in the right direction. In particular, because investment in mountain tourism has major multiplier effects on the economy. Maintained and regulated mountain paths are the basic condition for safe movement in the mountains. It's the only way to lure more mountaineers, hikers, and take care of their safe bark. By means of well-maintained and regulated routes, we will achieve that hikers will not look for shortcuts and new routes, which also means preventing the fear and persecution of wildlings and the destruction of nature. In the SMC Group, we are aware of the consequences of the last snow-rich winter, which left the real destruction on certain sections of the road. We therefore strongly support the implementation of the law by 1. 1. 2022. In our Group of Members, we are well aware of the importance of the voluntary work of Marquests for the maintenance and restoration of mountain routes, so it is important that we thank these wonderful and hearty people, as my colleague Matthew likes and for a reason, by our determined decisions, and send them a clear message that their work is useful, observed and important for all of us. At the same time, we are aware that volunteering also has its limits. In the SMC Group, we respect and support the efforts of our colleague, Mateja Udovč, in this area. With such work and approach, she will be able to earn a place of honor with four men of heart. The novelty of the law, which we are all Members of Parliament and Members of the coalition, will be welcomed and unanimously supported in the SMC, as well as the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Slovenians often like to boast about how beautiful and green our country is on the sunny side of the Alps. And it is true that nature in Slovenia appears in its most beautiful light. Many foreigners also attach themselves to this. Tourists who discover in an ever-increasing number, as they like to say, hidden gems in the heart of Europe. But for the jewel, which is largely part of mountain paths, it must be cared for and maintained. And that's what the members of the Mountain Association do. On a voluntary basis. And it's the latter who's referring to the law that's before us. The draft law thus lays down training and standards for maintaining the validity of the category for mountaineers or marquests. The amendment of the law thus regulates the training and licensing of Markacists and provides adequate equipment for safe work, which is very important. The maximum contribution of the novel is set out in Article 20, which lays down the obligation of the tourism ministry because it is a matter of tourism to provide means of maintaining and marking mountain routes. The latter, as has been said, is based on volunteering, but some do not have their guardians. In the SAB Group, we know and understand what this law means and what it brings. After all, the member of the SAB, unfortunately very early died Franz Kramar, worked tirelessly for the crown stone of the Slovenian jewel, for the Triglav National Park. We also agree with the proposaler that the activity of maintaining and marking mountain paths is in the public interest, as marked and protected mountain paths are necessary for the safe walking of users, hikers, tourists, which are several each year. In view of the above, it is necessary to say, although the law opens up very important topics that need to be resolved, that it is actually incomplete on the other hand, as our Law-Legal Service notes. That is why we believe that the Government could approach the matter and deal with it in a comprehensive and nomo-technical manner. Until then, of course, we hope that the proposal of the law before us, which is promised broad support, will suffice. We will also support him in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a paradise for hiking and hiking, walking along a scattered and unspoiled landscape in the country on the sunny side of the Alps certainly leave pleasant memories not only to the locals, but also to the foreign tourists, whom the holiday time brings to us. More than 10,000 kilometers of marked roads, various difficulties excite both demanding miners, mountaineers and visitors who want mainly walks and tours of more easily accessible natural beauty and cultural sights. 200 mountain societies and 820 Marquests in our country care that the pace of hikers is safe. Maintenance, labelling and equipping of mountain routes is carried out on a voluntary basis, roadkeepers are entitled to reimbursement of material costs for maintenance, labelling and equipment of mountain routes, and the applicable law provides that the funds are provided by a competent mountain association or by the Mountain Association of Slovenia. Some of the funds come from the Sports Foundation and partly from the municipalities, while the greatest burden is borne by the companies themselves. The visit to the mountain trails and Slovenian mountains is increasing, as well as the burden of the mountain trails. The well-maintained mountain paths provide safety for mountain visitors, significantly reduce risk and prevent disasters in the mountains. The needs for more intensive and thorough maintenance and labelling are increasing, resulting in higher costs associated with this. It is clear that the relationship itself, due to high costs, cannot maintain and develop higher levels of the entire mountain infrastructure. Members of the Desus Group fully agree and support the proposed legal solution, which regulates the more stable financing, maintenance and labelling of mountain routes and the training of marksmen. The role of the financier will be more likely to be played by the municipalities and the Ministry responsible for tourism will play a key role in providing funds. The economic and social-social impact of the mountains on us is excellent, and this type of sport, whether people engage in it professionally or solely as lovers, creates indirect positive economic effects in many other areas. The amendment will also provide for training and licensing of Markacists and adequate equipment for safe work, which will be reflected in the higher quality of the route and the safety of their users' steps. Following this, we conclude that the content of the proposal is undoubtedly in the wider public and national interest and therefore deserves all our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! Mountaining, because of the possibility of active leisure in an unspoiled nature, is increasingly becoming our value. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we would like to point out that it is not as self-sustaining as it seems to us. Most probably do not know who it is who cares for the smooth and safe use of more than 2 thousand mountain routes and 62 mountain links. The mountain trails are not regulated because they would be cared for by the state or local community in the area in which they run. They are safe and orderly because they are cared for unselfishly and without economic accounting by many volunteers who do so because of their love for the mountains, mostly in their spare time with their personal and protective equipment, with their working aids and as mentioned completely free of charge. Perhaps many also do not know that these volunteers, members of mountain groups, must be able to care for uninterrupted consumption and our safe journey in the mountains even pay for their own training in the maintenance and maintenance of mountain paths. Mountain trails are maintained, marked, placed on them by guide boards, cleaned and regulated, as already mentioned, by members of mountain societies called Marquests. In Slovenia, a marking with a white dot surrounded by a red collobar named after Aloise Knaflec is used to mark mountain paths. Like everything else, the Slovenian Mountain Society responded to the German captivation of Slovenian mountains and sought to preserve the Slovenian image of the mountain as a society of patriots and Slovenian mountaineers. It worked from 1893 until the end of World War II. After the war it became the Mountain Society of Slovenia, which was transformed into the Mountain Union of Slovenia in 1948, which is still operating today and which, together with its members of mountain societies, as it was 100 years ago, the Slovenian Mountain Society took care of mountain paths. In the Group of Members of the Unaffiliated Members, we would like to point out that one Marcacist cares about the good 12 kilometres of mountain routes. In Slovenia we have 820 Markacists, who thus spend around 40,000 working hours per year. Therefore, we are convinced that the policy after 13 years of adoption of the Mountain Routes Act is more than justified to remind them of their conscientious and loving work and to reward them with at least free personal walking and security equipment, to ensure that our safety on the mountain trails will not be stripped of their pants and to provide them with free training, and that they will be able to use working aids for the happiness of the State and the local communities to provide them with the Mountain Association or mountain societies. In order not to make it clear that we are also unrelated Members throughout the whole amendment, we are only dealing with the solutions for the Marquests, and we would also like to stress that the whole novel is carrying out the greatest disadvantage of the adopted law in 2007. [[Incomprehensible]] This is a lack of a systemic source of funding for the maintenance of mountain routes as well as mountain infrastructure. The latter also has an impact on the development of economic tourism, mountain tourism, which has tangible economic consequences, estimated by some experts at around €21 million, for direct economic effects. Therefore, it seems unreasonable to us that the financial burden of maintaining mountain paths is borne by NGOs, such as the Mountain Association and the custodians of individual routes, mountain societies, and their or their Marquest account. Visits to Slovenian mountains are increasing, as well as the burden of mountain paths and the need for better maintenance and labelling. For the time being, the hiking routes are marching and safe, but if the state and local communities continue to avoid providing funding for them, it is highly likely that individual mountainists or mountain communities will start closing them down. We will therefore support the amendment of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, and we will also support the proposed amendments, which, according to our assessment, address the shortcomings of the original text of the articles to which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out in the context of the examination of the labour force and allow the law to be implemented for the benefit of mountain organisations or for the general social benefit. Finally, to critics who have pointed to the problem of non-systemic regulation and government responsibility for its change, we answer that no government has shown obedience to mountain routes so far. Two mandates were needed for the law to be adopted in 2007. At the same time as today, the law had to be called on as a priority by a first-signed Member or Member who insisted on receiving the novels' support from the government, the government coalition and also the majority in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u112	Have a good day to all present in the hall! The Slovenian landscape is very diverse and, as such, very attractive for both domestic and foreign visitors. Natural beauty and unspoiled nature make mountain climbing especially popular. The number of accidents is also increasing as a result of a larger visit to the mountain. Mountain links, such as regular maintenance, labelling and mountain paths, can help to prevent these. In Slovenia we have about 10,000 45 kilometers of mountain roads, which are regulated by about 200 mountain societies. The mountain trails are regulated, marked, cleaned by the Marquests, on a voluntary basis. They do about 30,000 hours a year of volunteer work. Road managers are entitled only to reimbursement of material costs, so that most of the financial burden falls on the competent mountain societies or mountain associations. The new law therefore provides for changes in funding that will make the mountain union or the relevant mountain associations and mountain societies financially burdened. The novelty also imposes powers on the mountain link to determine the relevant category of mountain routes, determine the relevant category of markers, the conditions for entry into the register of markers, the conditions for the validity of the category and so on. Basic maintenance and labelling of mountain routes is certainly essential to ensure the safety of mountain visitors, so we will support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! The fact is that mountaineering between Slovenians is a popular leisure activity and arranged mountain paths attract any more visitors. The mountain trails are maintained by specially qualified Slovenian Mountain Association markers, who are currently doing their work voluntarily. That is why we are also happy in the SDS Group that today the bill provides a systematic source of financing for the maintenance of mountain routes and the work of the Marcasists. It is only information that the mountain trail network is spread across Slovenia, that it is more than 10,000 kilometres away, that mountain societies care for more than 2 000 mountain routes and 62 mountain bound routes, or that each marcasist has taken care of about 12 kilometres of mountain roads so far, is sufficiently eloquent. In Slovenia we currently have 820 Markacists and Markacists registered. They work together for about 40,000 hours a year. The fact is also, not only because of the coronavirus, but because of our beautiful mountains, that the visit to mountain and mountain paths in Slovenia is increasing, both by us, Slovenk and Slovenes, as well as by many foreigners, whom we know to attract to our beautiful hills and mountains. On the other hand, there is an additional burden on mountain routes and the need for more thorough maintenance and labelling and related means. Due to increased numbers of people in the mountains, higher quantities of snow, rainstorms, storms are destroying mountain paths that need to be maintained even more carefully than cleaning, cropping, setting up against [[…]] [[?]] Protecting, drawing markers, installing guidance tables and anything else that could be found. The greatest effort, knowledge and alpinistic skills, however, require the operation of very difficult mountain paths. With the adoption of the Mountain Routes Act in 2007, mountain routes have been given special status in the legal system, and today's amendments to the law also take into account the proposals of the laws of comparable Alpine countries that can benefit from the positive links between mountain and tourism. The amendment of the law will therefore arrange for the training and licensing of Markacists and adequate equipment for safe work. But also in the SDS Group, we believe that the maximum added value of this law will be to provide funding of EUR 400,000 per year for the marking of mountain routes. In our view, this effect on the budget will even be positive, as the more orderly and safe mountain routes will make it less necessary to help the mountain rescue service, less hours of the Slovenian Army helicopter in the mountains to help the injured and, finally, less work for the health staff. We are also pleased that an amendment has been adopted on the committee to apply the law as early as 1. 1. 2022. So today is a big day for Slovenian mountaineering. In the SDS Group, we thank Mateja Udovč for the initiative to amend the Mountain Routes Act. We also thank the Mountain Association of Slovenia with all professional colleagues for their professional assistance and cooperation in the preparation of the law. She also requested the three ministries that have contributed their knowledge to make this law even better, and in particular we would like to thank the SDS Group for the work done so far, and we want them to continue their successful and safe work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! There is probably no one among us who would not have insisted that Slovenia, as an Alpine country with exceptional mountain history and tradition on the one hand, and increasingly intense mountain tourism on the other, need orderly, maintained and well-marked mountain paths. Ways that are also in line with the highest standards of the mining countries. The Republic of Slovenia, together with eight countries, is a co-signature of the International Treaty of the Alpine Convention, which is a legally binding act aimed at protecting sensitive Alpine ecosystems and regional cultural identities of heritage and tradition in the Alps. The regulated Slovenian mountain paths are due to the countless hours of voluntary work of the Marcaciists in over 100 years of organised mountaineering in our country, and if voluntary work within local societies has been numerously represented at today's rapid pace of life, it is faced with various trials, which require a lot of effort and ingenuity from the management of mountain societies, not only in the enthusiasm of young people to visit mountains, but also in the work of mountain societies, where the work of Marcaciists and Marcaciists belongs. There is an increasing gap between the number of Markacists in Slovenia and the number of kilometres of mountain roads that need to be marked with quality, so the number of hours of volunteer work carried out by Markacists continues to increase annually. Systemic action is needed to provide sufficient material and financial support to mountain range managers. The visit to the mountains has increased dramatically in recent years. This not only affects the movement of economic indicators and generally social moods, but also mountain nature. To maintain it, it is imperative to follow the highest ethical and environmental standards. In the LMŠ Group, we welcome the proposer's legislative initiative, as only a few of the above mentioned circumstances and analytical data call for the country to be more ambitiously involved in achieving this public interest. This is done by mountain-based companies in principle with the Mountain Association of Slovenia, at the same time as this one, also raises important issues. As with the existing law of amendments, there is a lack of compliance with the laws and the Constitution, so that the law can be implemented to the extent envisaged and in order to avoid errors in the adoption of the 2005 law, it would be appropriate to consider the proposed solutions to the proposal for an integrated cross-cutting approach, in particular, due to the appropriate legal regulation of the mountain route legislation. The work carried out by Markacists and Markacists is vital for maintaining the Slovenian mining culture and the proposed changes are certainly a step towards strengthening the maintenance and restoration of mountain paths. They are a good basis for finalising the proposed amendments to the mountain route legislation with an appropriate legal framework, which will ultimately result in good and solid inter-departmental coordination. In the LMŠ Group we will support the amendment of the Mountain Routes Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] All right, well, first of all, Secretary of State Andrej Chush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u118	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Allow me to apologize for missing some of the presentation, I am just from the government meeting from Brda pri Kranj. However, I have listened, and I must say that I am pleased with this united support and unity for the bill. I must say that we have already had quite a broad debate on the text itself and on the proposal of the law, and I am pleased that today this chapter is also successfully concluded. However, the law also interferes with the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, more specifically in the field of the Directorate for Tourism and, of course, it is also right for us to define and present for a short time some activities and views and, above all, what awaits us in the future. The Slovenian “outdoor” product, which, of course, also undisputedly belongs to hiking, is one of the most competitive in Europe and is based on exceptional natural characteristics, sustainable business practices and responsible for the use of natural and cultural data. The product also has a remarkable impact on the overall image of Slovenia as a green and active and attractive destination. Law in the field of mountain routes, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, governs the maintenance of mountain routes. The legal area is therefore properly regulated here, but funding for the maintenance of mountain ranges has not been regulated to date. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u119	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask for amendments [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u120	Of course, of course. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u121	not generally about the law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u122	Sure, don't worry. So, of course, I can say that this text of the law gives quite a few activities and additional burdens for our department, namely the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, but of course we will gladly do so. Also provide financial resources in the budgets. We've already arranged that. However, I can say that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology supports the legislative proposal of which first-signed Member Matej Udovč and, of course, we also support the amendments tabled by the three parliamentary groups, i.e. the coalitions that have been forged in the right direction and will improve the text of the law, as of course it has already been discussed in the home labour bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u123	Thank you very much. She's the proposaler of a fellow widower named Matei. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Let me just give you a brief explanation of the amendments. The proposed amendments follow the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service only in such a way as to address the most urgent shortcomings, which will allow the law to be enforced in the way that we have foreseen. Let me remind you that the applicants do not want to change the existing concept of the law, as we have said several times during the Committee's debate. Finally, let me repeat the words spoken by the representative of the Mountain Society on the labour market: more important than the nomotechnic law is to provide a permanent source of funding for the Marquests. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will also support the proposed amendments of the coalition. Christian Democrats themselves are looking forward to today's vote. We agree that today is a great day for Slovenian mountaineering and we are also pleased that these amendments and the whole law will be supported by most of the parties in this national assembly. This shows that the law is properly prepared for the purpose we want to save. On the other hand, I regret that it is with these amendments that we wanted to follow the legal and legislative service to such an extent that we do not lose the red thread, that is, help to the Marquis. On the other hand, I am deeply saddened that one party to these efforts does not see these desires. And I must say that this party, which also has a green color in its logo, will be registered forever as a green party, which will vote against the mountain then against the Marquests and this will be very difficult to wash out, so let me conclude that a great day for the Slovenian mountaineering, I will support the amendments, also the law. To conclude, I would like this party to reconsider and everyone would be abstinence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I suggest that you focus on the debate on the content of the amendments, the views of your parliamentary groups of parties will be expressed in any way by the representatives of these parties. Comrade Korazi, do you have a procedure? How? [[background advertising]] But, uh, then I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] Boštjan Koražija, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. We will be abstaining in the amendments, and you too, earlier, have been clear in the position why and how we want this law to be made or adopted, and also in Levica, we want these people who work voluntarily to receive even more financial resources, not only that they deserve it, but also that they actually need it. And these are two aspects. Thus, we want a better, more extensive and more specific law and definitely more finances, or more funds, for these groups of people or for individuals working on the ground. I'd like to tie myself up. Yes, now, however, the law must be harmonised so that it can then be legally and constitutionally sustained, and given what has been happening on these committees, which are diverse with the proposal, it is only right that even the Government, or since we have a representative of the Government here, might also make an even better law from this point of view. That's it. I will not name these instigations from a variety of parties, nor will they even look for themselves or find how and why. This, if you say that you disagree with a matter, does not mean that you do not support it, but we want even more and even better, and you have done so many times in other parties in this National Assembly and also asked us and others, and it is right that some standards are maintained if we work for people, then let us work 100%. [[Incomprehensible]] So if someone deserves more, he doesn't get a better marriage or even a better marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody wants to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] No one, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER PROPOSAL OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION AND INNOVATION LEGISLATION IN THE FIELD OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 12 Members and Members with their first signed mags. Mark Koprivec. The bill is at the 18th session, 5. 5. 2021, treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First, he gets the word Miha Kordiš from the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenia is at the very bottom of public investment in research and development in Europe, with only 0.6% of GDP allocated from the budgets, which is a strong code for the European Union average of 1.4%. This is certainly a very worrying information for science, which reflects the need to adopt a clear basis for science to finally receive sufficient resources and to ensure the safety of employment for its researchers as well as guidance on autonomous and socially beneficial development. However, not only is the amount allocated in this country of science problematic, but the way in which public research organisations are financed does not provide a stable institutional source of funding. The result is that researchers and researchers are sentenced to existential and professional uncertainty. They almost never know whether they will be able to secure funding for the next few years they may not even specialize in the field at times because they have to do what they get from this or that project approved. This is how their specializations and careers are vaccinated. The knowledge that is produced is shallow, the professional authority is false. In particular, fundamental research is at risk because it does not have any continuity, and the system itself does not ensure the identification of any national research priorities. In such circumstances, scientific publication has only quantitative effects, and the content effects are not being verified all is subordinated to the profitable interest of the retail private publishing companies, and empty hyper production is hampering real scientific progress, as it exposes bibliometric instead of scientific authority and does not allow researchers time or continuity of scientific work from which they can tap quality. All these are very powerful reasons why the Law on Scientific Research has to be adopted as soon as possible yesterday, but unfortunately we find that this SDS law as we have on the table is still incomplete, unclear, incomplete and could even be harmful at some points. Similarly, not only in Levica, but also in the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The fundamental content of the bill's proposal is the definition of the scientific research activities of the conditions and the way in which it is implemented and the organisation is defined in a vague, opaque and inconsistent manner. In order to be able to support such a law in Levi, and in fact we want to support it, because I highlighted at the beginning of my position why we really need it, the proposer should address the shortcomings in at least 30 articles, for which, despite a very clear opinion and guidance from the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposer did not respond with the preparation of the amendment. However, the problems of this law are not merely nomotechnic. The level and the rate of funding have been determined quite a bit. However, the stability that is expected to come from the financing pillar is so widely defined that nothing is clear from it. Instead of allowing regular contracts for researchers, therefore, employment contracts continue to allow them to do their own work. The ArRS’ will to allocate funds remains, although the law should describe the criteria by which funds are allocated. Under certain conditions, however, research institutions are being transformed into economic societies, thus opening up the risk of privatisation. Why this law was not further coordinated in the opposition line and in the course of coordination closed all these holes and shortcomings I do not know about. However, since the hearing has come to an end, I hope that a new round of treatment will take place and that in the opposition together we will not write such a law together, which will drink water and actually be useful for scientific research and will allow it to manoeuvre, which it has not for a long time, and will certainly not get under the government of Janez Janša. In June, the government has the entire apparatus of the Ministry of Education and could provide for the regulation of the field of science rather deals with privatisation and services to its friends in the scientific research sector than with the actual support of the science and the progress of the society that is going on with this science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u132	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on scientific research innovation has been tabled by the SD Group with Mark Koprivec, the first-signed, because their Minister, Dr Pikalu, has failed to harmonise and enforce the law in all the years of the ministry through the adoption of the National Assembly. The introductory part of the text of the law is part of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as well as the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptation of the regulation of EU law, which shows that the law was written several years ago. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has also pointed out that the proposal for a law in several places contains provisions of a programme nature that have no normative value and are not subject to the law. The content of the bill is unbalanced according to its title, since to a large extent it regulates only scientific research activity and innovation only within the framework of general provisions. That the applicant was in a real hurry with the introduction of the law, there were errors in the marking of the structural parts of the text of the law, indicating that the proposaler had not deepened in the final preparation and correction of the law. Education, science and research are the foundation of our prosperity. A diverse secondary and research space is our great advantage, which we must preserve. Without education, science and research in a globally linked world, we will not be able to compete in terms of abilities and ideas. Higher education and science are at the heart of social progress. In New Slovenia, we want to work closely with the economy, as it is important to transfer new technological ideas into practice or life for the use of new technologies and creative added values. At the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Mitja Slavinec, stressed that the Ministry has prepared a law on scientific research and innovation, which is in line with all stakeholders and has the support of all those involved in scientific research innovation activities and will receive it in the coming days on its tables. Members of the New Slovenia do not support today's bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u134	Your Honor! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation, which was tabled by a party to the Social Democrats in the legislative process. It follows from the bill itself that the main solutions are aimed at the implementation of the resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy. The bill is intended to provide conditions for the development of quality and globally comparable scientific research activities, the basis for adequate and stable financing of public research organisations, the possibility of awarding excellent researchers, open access to scientific publications and research data. The proposal for a law should also lay down the conditions for strategic planning and guidance of scientific research activities at the highest level. In order to achieve those objectives, the draft law provides for the establishment of the Development Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the introduction of stable funding for scientific and research activities. Stable funding should consist of four pillars: the institutional, programme and development pillars and the pillar in which programme national research is included. It also provides for the possibility of awarding researchers up to two times the basic salary under certain conditions, of course, among the more exposed solutions in the draft law are the newly defined public service in scientific and research activities, the derogation to the system-wide regulation of legal remedies and the control of the legality of decisions under the Law on Public Agencies, the exemption from the applicable Law on the Public Use of Slovenian and the transposition of the Directive on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research and study and training. One of the basic missions of Members is to put the law into the legislative process. We welcome each such initiative, and then we can break up at some point. The reasons can be either political or substantive. The bill before us, however, was more than evidently put forward with the aim of overcoming the proposal made by the competent department or government. The latter is also reflected in the content itself, which is flawed and incomplete in certain segments. When considering the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation on the home committee, a number of reasons for its rejection were given. Among them, I would point out only the most important and these are the following. The risk of a sudden and large-scale reduction in resources for scientific research activity should it not be possible to achieve the 1% GDP target in reference years. Lack of provisions on the possibility of combining different funds and transferring assets from the country to public research institutions, restrictions on the managers of research programmes or projects related to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, discriminatory minimum conditions for obtaining stable funding for legal persons other than public research organisations but established by other legislation and private entities. We also miss provisions on the possibility of Slovenian researchers working abroad in different consultative bodies so that experts in Slovenia can share their knowledge. Some concerns were also raised regarding the number of members of the Management Board of the Public Research Agency, whether a total of 11 members of the Management Board were still optimal to be considered an operational body. These are just some of the concerns, but they suggest that the proposal for a law should be fully amended with additions. We have therefore not supported the proposal for a bill on the Home Committee in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u136	Mr Vice President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Science has moved forward and is the basis for the development of higher education society and high value-added economies. In view of the positive impact on the various areas of society, by regulating systemic investment, we are striving to make science one of the national priorities. This will strengthen and further increase the international visibility and impact of our scientific achievements. It is written on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Is that true in practice? We all know that the crisis that our country experienced years ago also had a profound impact on science. The fact is that the financing of science in Slovenia has fallen significantly in relation to other social sectors since 2012. In order to increase the financial resources for science, the representatives of the Scientific Meeting Organizational Committee, already in September 2017, proposed a decision to increase the funding of science by 20 million and 40 million in 2017 and 2018 to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. In 2019, however, funding would raise to 1% of gross domestic product; then science did not receive support. For 2018, 156 million Euros were dedicated to science, which is the same as the year before. Even today, science does not enjoy the kind of support it should have in view of the added value it gives to society. When I talk about support, of course I mean not only financial resources, but also the conditions for successful scientific and research work. Many young researchers and scientists have decided to go abroad, not only because of poor back financing, but also because there are generally much better conditions abroad. Slovenian scientists work miracles with equipment more than ten years old, meaning that Slovenian research organisations are difficult or unable to offer at least about the same conditions as organisations of other European countries. In the SAB Group, we are deeply aware of the importance of science and innovation for the development of our country and join the opinion of scientists who say that it is a technologically developed state and society a matter of choice that we must follow regardless of what policy is at some point in power. The proposal for a new law regulating scientific and research and innovation activities thus establishes a new system framework which, by easing development potential, provides greater quality in the implementation of scientific and research work, its faster development and better integration into European and global research space and better transfer of knowledge and integration with the economy. The main solutions to the draft law relate to the implementation of the research and innovation strategy, namely the creation of the Development Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Council for Science Integrity, the regulation of open access to scientific publications and research data, the possibility of awarding researchers, stable financing, and a new definition of public service covering all support activities. We have waited many years for a law that would properly regulate the financing of science and research, and it seems that we will wait, as the current Government of Money prefers to buy weapons than to invest in science and education. The latter are of far the greatest importance as they promote the cultivation of their own knowledge and contribute to the economic and cultural development of future generations and thus to society as a whole. Just in the time of the health crisis we are witnessing, as some other countries are doing, investment in science and development should be further strengthened as they are driving economic progress and growth. We are in the SAB Group for a knowledge society, because this is the only way to the country of prosperity. We therefore call on the Government to draw up a proposal for an ambitious research policy that will reflect what is written on the government's websites, so that science has moved forward to become one of the national priorities. Members of the SAB bill of course we support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Scientific and research activities and their development represent an important aspect of social development and play an important role in social progress and the creation of prosperity for citizens. Slovenians can be commended for the excellent researchers whose names are well known and represent elites around the world, whether they are scientists from respected research institutes or academics from our universities. Finally, this is also demonstrated in the development of covid-19 disease medicine. Since 2002, the Law on Research and Development has laid down a framework for the operation of the scientific research sphere. For years, new, more modern, more advanced legislation has been under way to enable researchers, scientists and research institutions to work more easily, especially more financial investment in this area and more stable funding. As part of the previous coalition and government, we have been monitoring the emergence of the present bill, which has already been rejected by the competent home committee, so that we will not even vote on it. Our key point, however, which came across a deaf ear, was the discriminatory restriction of older researchers who met the conditions for retirement, as they would be denied the payment of half their working time. It would also restrict or prevent anyone who fulfilled the pension conditions for the conduct of a research project. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also commented on these legal provisions, clearly highlighting the constitutionally contentious interference in the freedom of work provided for in Article 49 of the Constitution and the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of the age set out in Article 14 of the Constitution. At the same time, the Government's interesting opinion, which also pointed out the risk of non-constitutional law in this part, and in the so-called 8th anti-Korona package, it has enacted compulsory retirement. In this regard, in the Desus Group, we have drawn attention to constitutional controversy and nonconsistentity with a pension system aimed at prolonging work activity. Similarly, a party who is proposing this law was of the same opinion, and we are surprised that they dared to keep such an obvious controversial provision in their marriage text. Researchers deserve a stable and stimulating working environment, and their knowledge and creativity are invaluable values. They do not deserve a bad marriage journey that would continue to hinder or limit their innovation and knowledge sharing and thus the progress of society as a whole. We agree that special care must be taken to ensure a stable provision of funding resources, and it is also essential that equal conditions are established for scientific research work for all researchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Non-connected Members did not participate in the consideration of the law on the working body because the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups prevented us from deciding on it. Nor has the bill received a sufficient majority, which is why its legislative procedure is ending today. Notwithstanding these objective facts, it is important that, because of the substantive relevance of the bill, we express our position on it, also because we have been putting off too long with the new law on scientific research activities, both politically and needlessly. The first serious attempt is the formation of a new, comprehensive and systemic law, which science and the people who apply, impatiently and more than rightly expect, extends to the previous term. In two attempts, however, there was a short period of time, which is as valuable as gold in politics. There has also been a lack of general social understanding of the importance of the scientific research and innovation system. This will enable a higher quality of life for everyone with a critical reflection of society, an effective solution to societal challenges and an increase in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The undeniable fact is that Slovenia has not achieved the desired dynamics of scientific research over the past decade. The situation in Slovenian science is not good, and this is also because the legislative framework is outdated and remains unchanged since 2006. The institutes find it difficult to obtain new equipment and to obtain suitable work spaces. The big challenge is how to attract and keep the best young researchers, the state science budget is spending too much money, the share is almost a disgrace, as the goal of investing in public funds of 1% of GDP today is far more distant than it was in 2011. Despite the tightening of the unsuspecting legislative framework and systemic problems of scientific research, Slovenian science can be commended for the trend in the growth of exceptional and dose-based achievements and internationally recognised scientists. Our minds are luckier than a system that tries to frame. The law addresses these questions properly and offers answers to the acute problems of Slovenian science, only following and rejecting the government's dictatorship to the coalition. It is a pity that the Ministry of State has accompanied the opposition only by the words that the law is nomotechnically inadequate, the articles are wrongly numbered, and the reading of the marriage text is also necessary. A coalition that cares about such notes would accompany the law to another reading. Nomotechnics, numbering and lecturing are not the reasons for the termination of the law on the first step, but they are the indicator of the transfer of the first degree. How important science is we have all experienced in the last year when we have learned the virus, its dimensions and its consequences for society. If we do not ensure that science is incorruptible, that its funding is sufficient, there will be more theories of conspiracy, anti-vaccinators and doubters about progress in the future. Facebook epidemiologists do not shut up until the intensely close encounter with the caregiver until then, however, they are very loud. The development of science is and must be the added value of each society and country, and therefore a clear vision and the responsibility of all countries involved in achieving these objectives is essential for its further development. This communication is particularly relevant to the Minister of Science, who is called upon to bring the law under the parliamentary roof in due time before the end of the term, with such content as will not lakay swear to the partial interests of those who, through the back door and under milder conditions, would come to the work of the cake, which is called public interest and public service in the political jargon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u142	All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law that we are considering is to some extent well laid down and we also agree with some guidelines. We cannot, however, go beyond the seventh paragraph of Article 53 of the bill, which reads: "No matter what law governs the public use of Slovenian, procedures may be divided into selection of activities of scientific research activities involving foreign experts and carried out in a foreign language." In the case of the Slovenian language, the latter is often printed on the side of the track. The history of intellectuals in the past centuries and its placement in academic circles is well known, due to the acquisition of Slovenian language. The reason for this paragraph is likely to be of a practical nature. Many project applicants already write projects in English and assess them on the basis of English applications. Many therefore see the Slovenian version of the project application as unnecessary and additional bureaucratic work, but much broader, should be seen here. It is about ensuring the status of Slovenian language in Slovenian administrative procedures and the issue of the development and maintenance of Slovenian terminology. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello! The proposal for the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation submitted by the Group of Members with the first-signed Member of Social Democrats, Mark Koprivec, is incomplete. After the solid introductory articles, it systematically ends and continues [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u145	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u146	A rather confused sequence of articles where the roles of the Government, ministries and other factors are mixed. [[…]] We would expect a structured hierarchy of factors where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a core document of the scientific research and innovation strategy of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly and from this to the Government's selective powers and tasks, then a description of the implementation structure and methods of financing. The irregularity of the law is also demonstrated by the fact that the chapter on databases and their management, maintenance is divided into two parts after the chapter on ADRs and then specifically after the chapter on public research and public infrastructure institutions. It would make sense to collect provisions on personal data in one place in the law and thus make the law more transparent. The text shows simple copying and transposition of all parts of the regulations into the text of the law, which is a breakdown of all references due to incorrect numbering. Terminology is not harmonised and the law is not even lectured. The identification of funding is not systematically described, which contributes to the impreciseness of the law. It is not clear why the Management Board of the Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia should count 11 members and be replaced every two years. The draft law contains provisions under which the founder, the Republic of Slovenia for which the Government exercises its constitutional rights, has to give its consent to the statute of the public research institution adopted by the Management Board of the Public Research Institute and its consent to the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Public Institute. This is contrary to the position expressed on greater autonomy of the institution. The law has an expression of innovation in its title, which is intended to pay close attention in the law, and it is not even clear what the state allows to promote innovation. The law does not offer an enabling environment for the operation of non-disclosure research organisations and imposes on them at least 30 full employment of researchers for scientific research activities in a total of at least six years to obtain stable funding from public funds. Of this, at least 9 jobs, full of funding to carry out scientific research activities under the ARRS and the European Union central programmes in the field of scientific research activities, which is difficult for young organisations in a young country with relatively well-established private property in this area. The law of such a private research institution places them under impossible conditions and condemns them to an end, contrary to European practice and the practice of the developed world. Science and knowledge are not public or private. Knowledge and science must serve all people. We understand that the law is necessary, we expect the competent ministry to draw up an appropriate balanced and orderly law as soon as possible. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party does not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Respected and respected! Today, its legislative path has failed to conclude the proposal for a new law on scientific research innovation, as it has unfortunately not received the necessary majority on the committee responsible. It is a law that has been pending since 2011 in the field of science, research, development and innovation, when a resolution on the Republic of Slovenia's research innovation strategy for the period 2011-2020 was adopted during the Social Democratic Government in the National Assembly. The bill that we have tabled before Members and Members is a complex system law in the field of scientific research and innovation, which has been very important to us in the Group of Members, endorsed in January 2020 by all key stakeholders in the Government's Science and Technology Council. Representatives of public institutes, universities, trade unions and young people in science. The adoption of this law would be a major contribution to our country's development potential in research and innovation and would legalise a 1% of GDP funding for science, a stable institutional funding for public research organisations and an appropriate link between science, innovation and the economy. The law would reorganise the research and innovation environment to increase the impact of higher added value investments and increase the competitiveness and added value of the economy in the long term, thereby providing preconditions for increasing general social well-being. However, despite our sincere and well-intentioned intentions, we did not run into fertile ground because we were aware that it was a complex system-wide legislation that we offered, with our cooperation in the adoption of this law, to the Ministry of State, but unfortunately without success. Although the current Ministry leadership has received a coordinated proposal on hand, there has been no major shift in the direction of public policies over the past year and several months in this area. Otherwise, we know that the bill has been supplemented and amended, but this has happened away from the eyes of the public and stakeholders through public debate without a transparent working group or coordination on the competent government council as a key consultative body. Thus today, no one really knows what is actually cooking in the ministry in this area. Despite my promises to answer the questions raised by the Members, we have been more than a year before the beginning of the Presidency of the EU Council without a proposal in the legislative procedure. In their defense, the government and the ministry promised the pigeon on the roof in their opinion, so today the sparrow will not be confirmed, but we do not really know what they will do in this area in the Ministry. It is probably not impossible to imagine that the current ruling click at the site to strengthen public scientific and research space will try to re-examine its law as it has already done in the PKP to find some sort of perimeter for new gifts for its political friends and supporters in the private sphere. All of this to the detriment of the excellent science and potentials they have in Slovenian public research organisations. Respected and respected, we therefore regret that the law among Members did not run into fertile ground. We can only hope that by doing so we have encouraged the Ministry of Science and Government to bring a new proposal to us with stakeholders for a harmonised law on scientific and research activities, as Slovenia urgently needs a new system-wide law to finance and organise scientific and research and innovation activities, as a new framework for better research and innovation is necessary to make more effective use of European resources for recovery and resilience, with the aim of making Slovenian society more innovative and increasing our economy's added value, thereby creating better jobs, better wages and higher prosperity. The failure to adopt our proposal for a law can, unfortunately, be assessed as a missed opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 75th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 2.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.03.) (The sitting resumed at 2.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u150	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 1, 13, 2, 3 and 6. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law supplementing the second chapter of the Constitution of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on Sections 1 and 2 and on a proposal for a constitutional law as a whole. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, are required to adopt a constitutional law. The same applies to the reception of an individual section. We're moving on to a decision on the first chapter. Explanation of vote, Natasa Sukič on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u151	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that, in Levica, we welcome the fact that the Constitutional Commission and the National Assembly were able to bring a draft entry into the Constitution unanimously at the last stage. Finally, we can say. This is a very important and crucial change in the Constitution, which is going towards improving the situation and everyday life for all users and users of sign language, and is, in principle, somehow ensuring the full position of inclusion in society, of course, if we implement this fine constitutional principle also in practice, so we expect the ministries and the Government to now, in the shortest possible time and in an appropriate manner, ensure all appropriate legal grounds for this symbolic entry to be able to live properly in practice and to take action at the level of everyday life. For example, one of these areas is education. If we want to make sign language truly part of the everyday life of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, we will need to change curricula, provide interpreters at schools and universities, introduce new appropriate study programmes, etc. In short, let us not allow only a nice entry into the Constitution to remain, let us do our utmost to make it a part of the lives of these people, so users of sign language, and of course we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u152	Thank you very much. This is the decision on the first chapter. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the first section has been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the second division. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the second section has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the constitutional law has been passed. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Constitutional Assembly will declare the Constitutional Act supplementing the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to be announced on the eighth day following its adoption. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act under the ordinary procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Voice explanation, Comrade Joza Tanko. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The law, supplemented by a proposal for a law, includes amendments that are in fact in line with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, so that there is no conflict in this law with respect to compliance with the law and the Constitution. In spite of the fact that the Constitutional Court takes the initiative of the citizen into consideration because it fulfils the legal interest and because an important legal question is being resolved, it may or may often occur in proceedings that the Constitutional Court does not decide on its initiative at all, because, due to the length of the proceedings, either in the courts or in the Constitutional Court, in the meantime, its so-called legal interest is to be extinguished. We have different cases, we have a case where the Constitutional Court, in the case of, say, the former Minister of Justice and the former judge or the President of the Court in Ljubljana, decides in a few days. And we have cases where the Constitutional Court may decide on a citizen's case for two years, three years and finally, despite the fact that the citizen has been accepted under the criteria of the Constitutional Court in proceedings even rejecting his initiative. I believe that this constitutes an exercise of the constitutional right of a citizen, which is enshrined in several provisions of the Constitution, both as regards judicial protection and as regards legal interest. And also imposed on the Constitutional Court to take initiatives that fulfil the legitimate interest to be considered. What happens later, I think it is inconsistent with positive legislation. And one thing is, I think that the professional people employed in the Constitutional Court have no authority to search citizens' records and determine the status of these citizens. I therefore propose that this law be adopted. The Group of Members will support it because we believe that what is enshrined in the Constitution, in the introductory provisions of human rights and also in the provisions concerning the judiciary and in particular the Constitutional Court, must be fulfilled. If any of these rights are not realized, it means that the left aristocracy in the Constitutional Court is granted and decided very quickly, while the various Jerneans cannot reach their rights even on the basis of the Constitutional Court. As we say, we will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third consideration of the draft law on resolution and forcible termination of banks in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to see the end of the third item of the agenda, which is the third consideration of the draft law on banking in the context of the urgent procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote by colleague Vojko Starović on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House of Representatives. See, the government explained that the reason for the delay in the adoption of this law is also because the short procedure of the epidemic is not acceptable. Instead of focusing its energy on these important issues, the Government has focused on other priorities, attacks on the media, the transfer of all state property under one roof, interference with the work of repressive authorities, and subjugation and fragmentation of independent regulators could also be listed. Look, there's no way to replace the state of mind with rules. In Slovenia, the first banking law in 1991 numbered 5,000 and six words. So in 2006 we adopted a law in the time of the government of Janez Janša, which counted 47 thousand 532 words. The new bill here, which I have before me, contains 140 thousand words. The previous one, when we put it through, contains 111 thousand 555 words. But who can guarantee that all of this will improve the situation? Again, before the enormous debt in the years see 2004 to 2008, Slovenia's debt increased from less than 20 billion to 40 billion, and this has not been able to reduce much in these years, so I am warning again if we think that this law will achieve something with greater normality without the use of common sense, because the excessiveness I tell you lowers people's sense of responsibility because, after all, you have all the answers in the law and you don't have to think and do anything smart about it and make sure that we don't go back to speculation where the bank speculation has led us, that we all had to recover, that we didn't have to lose our savings, houses, cars, dwellings, if we didn't then save the banking situation. Make sure we don't fall into it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u156	Thank you. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mountain Routes Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 5. 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 3. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 6. We're voting. 74 attended, 62 voted against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted at the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation on behalf of Mr Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. The new Mountain Routes Act provides a systematic source of funding for the management and maintenance of mountain routes. It brings financial resources to the Marquests, to those loving, wonderful people who are observed when their work is not done. That is why I will be happy to support this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-27-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 79 in attendance, 73 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 75th extraordinary session, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
