ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Dušan Šiško, until 13:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 35. On the day-to-day basis, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to the proposal for a law, a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With a view to modernising the VAT system in order to make this simpler, more anti-fraud and business-friendly, we have adopted two directives amending the VAT Directives on e-commerce. The new common rules are transposed into the Slovenian legal order with the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The novelty covers the amended rules for determining the place of taxation of distance supplies and certain services to final consumers in the Union in accordance with the principle of destination and the abolition of VAT exemption on imports of low-value consignments. In order to facilitate the payment of VAT in the Member State of destination, three specific arrangements are introduced All in one place for taxpayers and special arrangements for the registration and payment of VAT on imports of consignments of up to 150 euros for providers of our postal and courier services. Companies whose annual cross-border e-commerce does not exceed EUR 10 000 can charge VAT in Slovenia. The novelty also introduces a new VAT obligation for taxable persons, so-called online platforms, which allow distance sales of imported goods in consignments of a maximum value of 150 euro or allow the sale of goods in the Union by companies without a registered office in the Union. The new rules on e-commerce in the Union shall apply from 1 July 2021. In order to ensure the timely application of the uniform European rules in Slovenia, the Minister of Finance adopted two rules governing the implementation of the European directives during the transitional period from 1 July 2021 until the entry into force of the amendment in question. The amendment also transposes the provisions of the directive into our legal order, which aligns VAT rules for supply of goods and services to armed forces under the EU's common security and defence policy with those applicable to NATO. These rules shall apply from 1 July 2022. The novel also seeks to achieve some simplifications for taxpayers and the tax authority and to pursue environmental policy objectives. Among these measures are the most important right to deduct VAT on the purchase of motor vehicles under certain conditions, the abolition of the VAT identification obligation for a taxable person without a registered office in Slovenia under certain conditions, the termination of the obligation to submit additional documentation at the first submission of the VAT bill, the abolition of the threshold for compulsory entry of farmers into the VAT system and the termination of the obligation to issue an invoice in paper form to the buyer unless the customer so requests an account. The simplification measures shall apply from the date of the entry into force of the novel. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on the country's income and the economy. For taxpayers, administrative burdens will be reduced and competitive conditions in cross-border trade will be levelled and VAT revenues will be increased for the country, mainly by abolishing VAT exemption on imports of goods in consignments up to €22. Positive financial effects for the economy are also expected by lowering the tax burden on the purchase of vehicles without CO2 emissions for business use. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of all of this, I propose that you support the proposal for a new Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Good morning, everyone here! Since we are acting as a Member State within the European Union system, it is important that certain tax matters are harmonised. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act is well coordinated mainly by simplification at European Union level, which will also have a positive impact on the Slovenian economy. The traditional tax system, such as VAT, must also follow the trend of digitisation, so it is good to regulate and enable the use of the online portal for the application and payment of VAT. It is necessary to simplify matters so that businesses can operate smoothly and that there is no unfair taxation. Due to the increasing e-business and online shopping, it is high time to regulate this area with laws such as this. The payment of VAT, in accordance with the principle of the Member State of consumption, will be well regulated, especially in the case of distance sales of goods, since taxation will be counted in the place where dispatch ends. Of course, we are extremely critical and skeptical in coordinating VAT for defence efforts within the Union and under the auspices of NATO in the Slovenian National Party. Now, after a new release, we will allow certain VAT exemptions for the supply of goods to armed forces within NATO when they participate in defence outside their country. Then it is an organisation with one single goal, and this is to follow the interests of large capital in the United States of America and to destabilise certain regions for political domination. Such interests certainly are not in favour of the Slovenian people and our country, so we also feel that financial or tax mechanisms are in dispute to encourage this. It seems unacceptable to us that we will now note the loss of VAT revenues for an agenda that is not only not in our interest, but is actually doing damage in the wider region. Then he has such huge amounts of money, and now he wants additional benefits or reliefs. The exemption from VAT, which is still known in public finances, should be an exception when the interest of the people or the defence of the country is at stake, not by any means the interest of American corporations. As recent history has shown, then, under the propaganda of the expansion of democracy of the country and the region, it has only destabilized, caused migration, filled certain elites' pockets and allowed for even greater power. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely oppose all measures that will further contribute to the corrupt NATO agenda. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President. Very well greeted representatives of the ministry and colleagues and colleagues and a warm good day to this day! In the Republic of Slovenia, the system of supply of goods and services is regulated by the Value Added Tax Act, which entered into force 1. 1. Since 2007, since then, the harmonisation of EU law and the general changes in society have led to a number of amendments. The last amendment to the ZDV-1L thus entered into force 1. 1. 2020, which related to temporary measures relating to value added tax applicable to covid-19 vaccines and diagnostic medical devices for covid-19, was therefore a response to the pandemic. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, 1N, which represents one of the three laws which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent to the National Assembly in view of changes in the tax legislation of the Republic of Slovenia in 2021. Among other proposed amendments, the amendment under consideration brings to our legal order changes relating to the Directives already adopted and the Regulation of the European Union. The competent institutions of the European Union have adopted a number of new directives and regulations that require the introduction of legislation as soon as possible, as the deadline for implementation of the following Directives and Regulations has already expired 30. 6. 2021. This proposal makes the Directives transposed more relevant to the amendments to Directive 2006/19 and simplifies certain obligations for taxable persons in intra-Union trade or the sale of imported goods from third countries or third countries. The new rules also place European companies in the same position as third-country or third-country undertakings which did not need to be charged in accordance with the rules before July 2021. Directives of the European Union coordinating the proposed novelties are 2017/2455, 2019/1995, 2018/1910, 2019/2235 and Implementing Regulation 2019/2026. The bill also follows a number of solutions related to the demobilization of procedures. The main objective of the bill is to connect. The proposed solutions are as follows: abolition of the threshold of EUR 35 000 for compulsory identification in the Republic of Slovenia as a country of consumption; recognition of the online platforms as a taxable person for the purpose of VAT; taxation of cross-border sales of goods to final consumers in the Union through electronic interfaces; application of the principles of taxation of cross-border supplies of goods intended for final consumption in the destination; further amendment of the non-Union regime I know, namely the extension of the application of the special arrangements for telecommunications services, the transmission services and the electronic services provided by taxable persons not established in the Union; change of the Union's arrangements to all services carried out in accordance with the rules governing the provision of services to the Member State of the tax system, to which those taxable persons are entitled to supply goods, including by virtue of goods, to persons other than taxable persons in respect of the Member States of Slovenia, including Slovenia; change of the Union's rules of origin and the extension of the application of the special arrangements for the Member States of the rules for telecommunications services, to whom the services are subject to whom the tax services are subject to whom they are subject to foreign service, to foreign exchange, but not subject to foreign service, to foreign nationals, but to foreign nationals, but not subject to foreign nationals or foreign nationals. Then there are changes to the import arrangements. I know, namely, the abolition of the VAT exemption on imports of consignments of up to €22, the change in the special regime for the application and payment of VAT on imports for consignments of real value up to €150, the introduction of a voluntary simplification for payment of VAT on imports of such consignments up to a real value of €150, and the application of a specific regime for the application and payment of VAT on imports. However, there is also a change in the specific arrangements for the provision of international occasional road passenger transport services, namely, the taxable person can decide on his own which regime he will apply – Union or non-EU I know, and special arrangements, but the simultaneous application of the arrangements will no longer be possible. The amendment also implements the transposition of Directive 2019/2235, which provides for equal VAT to address defence efforts within the framework of NATO and the Union, and introduces several different VAT exemptions for imports and supplies by the armed forces involved in the Union's defence efforts. The date of application of these amendments is 1. Seven. 2022. The new law also brings solutions that follow the objectives of environmental policy, administrative simplification and decommissioning. The use of these is from 1. Seven. 2021 et seq.: the introduction of a right to a 100 % VAT deduction for electric vehicles up to EUR 80 000, also for all spare parts, lubricants and services related to the vehicle. Furthermore, the change in the exercise of the right to deduct VAT – the taxable person will be able to apply a deduction already in the tax period in which the VAT obligation has been imposed; the abolition of the compulsory transfer of invoices to the customer – the customer will be able to request the delivery of an invoice, the supplier will provide him with a simplified invoice; changes in the VAT identification of taxable persons who are not established in the Republic of Slovenia and are VAT payers; changes in the content of the VAT bill in order to give more flexibility to Furs in clarifying a certain half of the VAT form; the abolition of the mandatory entry threshold for farmers into the VAT system, thus giving farmers the possibility of voluntary inclusion in the VAT system; the suspension of the obligation to prior notification of the application of certain VAT exemptions for persons not subject to public law; and the suspension of the mandatory submission of the list of arrested and issued invoices in the first VAT account. The draft law has financial implications for the state budget both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. The means for implementing the law are provided in the State budget under the Furs financial plan. Although the proposed amendment to the law has a financial impact on the state budget and also has an impact on changes in the extension of the mini Imam system and changes and additions to the Furs information system, we welcome it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it has, on the other hand, amendments to the EU directives which should be transposed into our legal order by 30. 6. 2021, many positive changes, which represent administrative simplifications of compliance with tax obligations, which also follow environmental policy objectives, but which are among the priorities both in the European Union and in Slovenia. However, it is not negligible that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the economy, notably in terms of reducing administrative burdens in cross-border transactions by applying simplified VAT accounting procedures, thereby reducing VAT compliance costs. In addition, a level playing field will be ensured for all companies operating across borders, whether established within or outside the Union. From an environmental point of view and positive financial implications for the economy, it is also important to reduce the tax burden on the purchase of electric vehicles for commercial use. Therefore, as a result of everything that has been said so far, especially in terms of environmental issues and the burden of administrative burdens and simplification of procedures, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, No. 1N. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Dear President! Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with another of the three laws that form the so-called tax reform. In the LMŠ, we advocate a package of treatment of tax reforms, which is why the rest of the opposition called for a general debate on all three proposals for legislation, as we are convinced that there must be a broader social dialogue in place for such root actions in existing social relations. The government has not done so, even more, the proposal to amend tax legislation has not come to the table of the Economic and Social Council at all. So the law itself was not compatible with the social partners. At the May meeting, the coalition even suggested that all three tax reform laws should be dealt with on an urgent basis, but fortunately the proposal did not receive sufficient support. The reason for the emergency procedure should be, I quote, “because in the event of the later adoption of the bill, there could be difficult remedial consequences for the country”. End of story. In view of the financial situation we are in, we expected in the LMŠ that a comprehensive tax reform would make a breakthrough on the revenue side of the budget, but we were wrong, unfortunately. The fiscal council assesses the fiscal impact of the proposed tax changes only in 2022 to EUR 335 to 450 million. It estimates that tax reform poses an additional risk to the sustainability of public finances over the medium term. However, the main emphasis is that the proposed tax changes in the sector will cumulatively increase the country's debt by between 4 and 14 percentage points of GDP. So, at all times, Janez Janša's government wants to increase its debt by that much, regardless of the fact that we have already committed EUR 8.14 billion to the new net by the end of March. On the other hand, a few days ago when the last anti-Korona package of the PKP was adopted, the same government did not find funds to encourage companies that were closed by decree. Minister Restovalšek warned that the Government must keep an eye on public financial sustainability. It is said that for closed companies, the Government points to sustainability and at the same time will relieve the richest in the upper income class. It's a matter of deceiving and duplicity. Let us add to this the introduction of a social cap that would annually impoverish the pension and health allowance for between €15 million and €165 million per year. Only by intervention in the area of income will a reduction of two billion government revenues be foreseen within four years. This is a direct assault on all four public cash registers. Since the Fiscal Council has also calculated that this reduction will not return to the budget through an increase in consumption, we wonder which budget expenditure we will have to give up in the future. In the context of tax reform, you have also not presented any calculations as to how much higher economic growth or how much higher consumption you expect, nor have you presented any additional measures to replace this huge gap in the budget. Therefore, we cannot support such a proposal in the LMŠ and we will vote against the proposed tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposal to amend and supplement the Value Added Tax Act is part of the government tax package. As the Fiscal Council noted last week, the government's proposal for tax reforms is putting a huge hole in the revenue of the budget, thus engendering the ability of the state to help people who expect it. Of the three government proposals for tax laws, the above-mentioned proposal for a VAT law is still at least controversial. Most of its content relates to the harmonisation of the Slovenian legislation in force with European legislation, which is mainly related to efforts to pay taxes where traffic was created, which will also make it difficult for online platforms and national corporations to transfer profits and avoid paying taxes. In line with the amended European regime, changes will also be observed by those who have so far purchased mail and online shipments of lower value from third countries. These, too, will now be burdened by the payment of VAT, and we have already summarised most of the solutions that we need to bring to Slovenia's legal order in view of the revised European directives. But as has already been said, this bill is part of a government tax package whose key feature is tax cuts and exemptions. In line with the government's mental and mental orientation, which despises everything in common, it is also possible to find proposals in this law that require at least clarification and discussion before they can be commended. One of the key solutions to this proposal is the changes that are expected to increase the sale and use of non-CO2 vehicles through tax exemptions. The proportion of vehicles without harmful releases in Slovenia is among the lowest, while the harmful emissions from which transport is the source grow at one of the highest rates in Europe. In order to encourage the sale and use of non-emission vehicles, in particular electric vehicles, the Government proposes a write-off of value added tax for purchases of such vehicles, but the Government's proposal remains within its mentality. Tax exemptions will only be granted to entrepreneurs and businesses; those who use vehicles to carry out their activities. The tax exemption threshold is high, up to 80,000 euros. In practice, this means that we will allow business owners to purchase a prestigious service vehicle without tax, while the average Slovenian family will still receive no tax incentives to replace the old family diesel with a cleaner car. In doing so, let us remind the Government that there are also bicycles, not just electric cars, non-emission vehicles, and for their purchase the Government does not propose any relief. At least we are pleased that the Government has finally observed, when preparing this proposal, that state budgetary capacity is limited. Thus, the Government, which, in its opposition times, raised loudly about the injustice caused by the permanent increase in VAT at the time of the previous economic crisis, could only conclude in the preparation of this proposal of the law that the reduction of the VAT rate is not to be followed for reasons of influence on public finances. Interestingly, this is noted by the party that has generously spent state money in the past year and has rejected each scepticism by arguing that the low-cost debt is an excellent public financial resource. Despite the public financial influences, the Government is prepared to give tax gifts to owners of expensive vehicles, which it is not prepared to provide to people whose vehicles are equally polluting the environment than those registered by business operators. Again, the mentality of this government shows that only the owners of property and businesses are the ones who deserve its help. Only this solution will bring 2 1/2 million to the state budget in the first year and 4 million and less in the next year in the state budget. Let us add to this the already adopted reduced tax on more expensive motor vehicles, which will bring 28 million less to the budget, and we will find that this government, despite the impact on public finances, is prepared to give to owners and customers of prestigious vehicles more than 30 million Euros of tax gifts. We are also concerned about the government's efforts to dismantle the established tax system and to issue accounts. After a few years of successful introduction of tax clearance of accounts and thereby increasing the tax revenues of the budget, reducing tax evasion and increasing employment in exposed industries, the government is now breaking down one key solution that ensures the functioning of the system, which is the obligation of the seller to issue and deliver an invoice to the buyer. This obligation should be addressed as an administrative burden, which would in practice ensure that, for example, customers would no longer automatically receive invoices for guest services. While the government claims that the accounts will still be issued and that the customer will also receive them on his own request, but if we know that cases of subsequent changes and deletions of the items from them have often taken place in the hospitality business just prior to the introduction of the tax registers, this step is a little more difficult to understand. We understand that this is a minor change that does not change the obligation to issue an account, but this could also be the first step towards decommissioning the system of tax clearance of accounts. We sceptically follow government proposals in the tax field because of everything mentioned in the Group of Social Democrats. In view of the public financial situation, we consider that additional tax exemptions for tangible assets, particularly if they are general and non-targeted, are not an appropriate solution. The same applies to ideas on the decommissioning of the tax system. We therefore expect the Government to clarify its conduct and commit itself to withdraw the contested solutions from it in the coming rounds of the law. Otherwise, in the SD Group, we cannot support the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Hello! Thank you for your word, Madam President! In front of us is one of the episodes of the multi-stage tax reform series of the current government. In addition to the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the Law on Income, the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and the Law on Debirocratisation are also being drawn up this season. A comprehensive tax package means the degradation of the Slovenian tax system, it removes solidarity and accelerates the deepening of social inequality. As early as March this year, the government adopted a proposal for a law on debirocratisation, which introduces an anti-social cap for gross salaries of more than €6,000. This means that the percentage of the best paid in the country is about 13,000 people, contributions to public health and pensions will be paid at lower rates than workers on minimum wages. In Levica, we were able to adopt this harmful law in the National Assembly at least a little late. For we have rushed the government through the introduction of our new Social Security Contributions Act, which provides an additional EUR 560 million for public pension at the annual level by raising employers' contributions to pensions by 2025. Since our novelty interferes with the same law as the government's law on debirocratisation, this means that the government law in the National Assembly cannot be considered before the conclusion of the consideration of our novel. In addition, the Government in the new Income Law proposes additional tax exemptions, which will again benefit the richest. They propose a reduction in the rate of the highest income class from 50 per cent to 45 per cent, which will serve exclusively to raise net salaries for about 4 thousand 300 people with the highest wages in the country. They will also benefit most from the proposed increase in general income relief. The overall relief will rise to EUR 4 000 500 next year and will gradually rise to EUR 7 000 500 by 2024. This is an extremely unfair measure, from which the employees will receive the most from them once again with the highest wages, and at least the lowest. The government in the new Income Law also proposes a reduction of taxes on capital. The rate of income from capital income will fall from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent and from the income from the rental of assets from 27.5 per cent to 15 per cent. The percentage of the richest majority of their personal incomes in any way derives from profits from capital, interest, dividends and real estate. Reducing capital taxes is primarily in the interest of this influential handful of the richest. By far the largest number of vacations will be awarded to real estate barons who serve in the broadcasting of residential and business premises. For example, a rich man who earns 200 000 euros in real estate will be reduced by 25,000 euros. But this is not the only effect of the present tax reform, which includes the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act. The reform will brutally empty the state budget. Contrary to temporary intervention measures that only result in one-off budget shortfalls, tax reform will result in a permanent shortfall in budgetary resources, which will deplete the state budget in the long term, deplete public health and pension funds and municipal budgets in the long term. The Income Act will already reduce tax revenues by €247 million in 2022 and in 2025 it will already be €789 million per year. As a result of the loss of income, there will also be a huge drop in the tax revenues of municipal budgets. The 54% share of the realised income flows directly into municipal budgets. This means that municipal budgets will lose 426 million euros annually after 2025, representing 26 percent of the total tax revenue of the municipalities. Now, translate this into infrastructure, utilities, kindergartens and so on. Plus the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax will generate an additional EUR 30 million of budget revenue due to tax relief for private companies. The introduction of an anti-social cap will result in a fall in the revenue of the public pension fund of EUR 120 million and a public health treasury of EUR 70 million per annum. Due to the huge loss of tax revenues, the Government will have to pay additional debts and cuts budget spending, which means that the social state will also shrink and thus the standard of living of people, because every cent that the Government will give to the rich will be a cent less to develop public infrastructure, a cent less to the social state and so on. Government claims that the estimated cost of labour will have a positive impact on economic growth, increase competitiveness, create new jobs and increase consumption, thereby destroying the negative public financial effects of the tax reform over a long period of time, and are the dumping of sand into the eyes. The experience of tax reforms in Slovenia shows that tax cuts for the economy as a whole have no positive effects. A similar reform of the Janša government cost us almost a billion in 2005-2007, led to a record debt, and from there we sank into austerity measures, reduced consumption and economic growth. A billion-dollar tax relief bill for the most wealthy was last paid by the poor. The total public financial hole under Shirtz's reform is EUR 900 million. With 900 million euros spent by the Government on tax breaks to the rich, about 10,000 public non-profit apartments, about 15 infectious clinics, or 150 new homes for the elderly could be built. The current amendment or the current proposal to amend the value added tax within the same period. With all the billions of tax exemptions prepared by the Government for the most paid and capital-owners in tax reform, the amendment of the Law on Value Added Tax is an exception of some kind. It also raises taxes. In this way, the government is expected to collect more taxes from the population at annual level for around 9.5 million euros. Although this amount is negligible compared to the effects of other tax laws, it is symptomatic and clearly illustrates the logic followed by the current government in tax policy. In fact, the government on the one hand reduces progressive taxes, i.e. income, the part based on the principle that the richest are taxed at the highest rates and the poorer at the lowest rates. The reduction of progressive taxes is therefore the most beneficial for the richest and, to the least, the poorest and, on the other hand, increases the regressive taxes, i.e. VAT, which we all pay at the same rates, irrespective of the level of our income. It is clear that the rise in the regressive tax is most affected by the poorest, as these are forced to deduct a larger proportion of their income proportionally. Today's proposal is not a loner, in Slovenia we can see a trend in the last decades of constantly decreasing progressive taxes, i.e. incomes, and wage-dependent contributions, while increasing the regressive taxes on consumption. This means that the most powerful are again paying less and the poorest are paying an ever-increasing share of taxes. The tax reform government, which brings about a radical reduction in income, is only increasing the trend of reducing the rate of progressive taxes at the expense of regressive taxes. If I translate it into a local vocabulary, it's nothing more than a systematic transfer of money from the poor to the rich. The bill also gives us at first sight a good idea to follow the principles of environmental responsibility. The government introduces the right to deduct VAT on the purchase of electric vehicles, but the limit for the value of a vehicle for which companies can enforce deduction is very high, up to €80,000. This means that companies will also be able to procure expensive luxury vehicles without tax. The law further does not provide for a restriction on tax exemption in relation to the extent of commercial or personal use of vehicles. In other words, tax exemptions will also be able to benefit companies from providing management staff with luxury bodies for personal use. All other conditions and means of exercising the right of deduction in law are also not specified. All of this can be subsequently determined by the personal Minister of Shircelj by means of sub-legal acts. It's over. The new VAT regime, which entered into force on 1 July 2021, is illegal. The government introduced him before accepting his legal basis. The regime has been in fact implemented for two weeks in the calculation and payment of VAT on Slovenian mail, on online platforms, on Furs, in companies and so on. However, the problem is that the new VAT accounting and payment regime is based on European directives, which have not yet been transposed into the Slovenian legal order. This will only happen when this present novel is adopted. Given that this novel is currently only at first reading, the legal basis for the new regime, which is already in force in practice, can only be adopted after parliamentary holidays at the first meeting to be followed at the September session, i.e. at the end of September or at the beginning of October. Until then, three months from now, the existing regime will be based on a violation of the provisions of the current VAT law, thus illegal. I end up where I started. The overall tax reform package does not bring any good. It means the degradation of the Slovenian tax system, it removes solidarity and accelerates the deepening of social inequality, offers the most powerful gifts for the price of basic survival of the socially weak and is illegal. We are opposed to illegal, socially abusive and unjust proposals in Levica, which we will also do when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and others present, a beautiful greeting! The nature of the country's existence requires the provision of certain goods and services necessary for its operation. The task of the State is to create a framework that ensures security and orderly coexistence, and an environment in which an individual has the opportunity to develop his or her potential, to increase his or her talents, to realize his or her abilities, to create a family. Of course, in order to finance the provision of these freedoms, goods and services, the State must establish a mechanism through which citizens contribute a certain part of their income to the common state budget. Thus, the concept of taxes in itself constitutes an intervention in the ownership right of an individual who is justified and justified in the necessity of establishing a country and operating its systems. Since it is a legitimate exercise in the individual's property rights in the determination of taxes, a great deal of rationality and caution is needed in establishing the tax system. Tax legislation may also pursue certain other specific objectives. This amendment to the VAT Law, for example, also contributes to sustainable and green mobility. The draft law introduces the possibility of deducting VAT on the purchase of electric motor vehicles if these vehicles are intended to carry out the activities of the debtor and the following two conditions are met: the motor vehicle is free of carbon dioxide emissions and the value of the motor vehicle with VAT and other charges not exceeding EUR 80 000. Therefore, it will no longer matter what activity the vehicle is used for. With regard to those vehicles, the right to deduct VAT may also be exercised in respect of the purchase of fuels, lubricants, spare parts and services closely linked thereto. Assuming that the taxpayers will purchase 500 electric vehicles annually at an average price of 50,000 euros, the possibility of deducting VAT for these purchases would mean a slightly over 2 million euros in the first year of implementation of the law and 4.5 million euros in the next year in the VAT budget. In doing so, the impact of VAT on the private use of these service vehicles will be relatively low. The loss of VAT revenue will increase with the years and accessibility of these vehicles, but also depends on other incentives in the field of other tax legislation. The bill also refers to the aim of simplifying the tax regime for farmers. In order to simplify the functioning of the VAT system for farmers and to avoid the annual administrative obligations of checking the scope of cadastral income and taxable subsidies and the subsequent identification of VAT farmers under official duty, the threshold for compulsory entry of farmers into the VAT system is deleted. This is the limit of the cadastral income of all members of the farm household for the last calendar year of EUR 7 000 500. However, the possibility of a taxable person calculating part of his entry VAT by flat-rate remuneration is preserved, as well as the possibility of such farmers being voluntarily included in the VAT system. The obligation to issue invoices for VAT purposes for the supply of goods and services carried out by taxable persons to customers in the territory of Slovenia shall be supplemented by the obligation to deliver the invoice to the customer only if the customer so requests. The VAT accounting form will no longer be prescribed by the Regulation, but will be published in eTax, with more detailed compliance instructions for each field being published. This will give the tax authority greater flexibility for additional explanations of sex in order to ensure clarity and legal certainty for taxable persons whose transactions need to be entered in a given field. The law brings a number of positive changes to reduce administrative burdens, improves the situation of small farmers and contributes to green mobility. That is why we will support the proposal in the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Hello, everyone! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Value Added Tax, which is part of a government reform package of tax laws. And why is all tax reform necessary? Because tax legislation needs such updates that will follow global trends and respond to the current needs of our economy. There is also a need to consider establishing a tax balance. We would like to see taxation at the optimum level that will not act in a dissuasive but stimulating way on the competitiveness of our business environment; that is to say that it will attract investment and promote economic activity and that the cumulative amount of taxes collected will be at the highest possible level. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account the competitiveness of the tax or business environment across our borders, and to be aware that even with lower tax rates we can collect more tax revenues, as lower taxation on economic activity works in a stimulating and multiplier manner. In the SMC, the reform of tax legislation, part of which is also the amendment of the Income Law and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons and indirectly the Law on Debarcation, we recognize as a step towards greater attractiveness of our country for investment opportunities. A more comprehensive reform is needed mainly because, under existing conditions, we are obviously not competitive enough or business attractive enough to attract more desired investments from abroad. Potential foreign investors who would certainly choose Slovenia to set up their branches because of the strategic position of our country, but due in particular to the unattractive tax legislation and the unpredictability of the wider business environment, unfortunately, too often decide to invest in neighbouring countries. The proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act introduces the necessary simplifications of the system of taxation and payment of VAT for cross-border services and distance purchases. The aim of the latter solutions is understood as administrative simplifications of the fulfilment of tax obligations for taxpayers and the decommissioning of both taxpayers and the tax authority. The new law provides, inter alia, that an account in paper form will be handed over to the buyer only in cases where it so requires. We believe that it is high time we began to exploit the potential offered by digitisation. We have the opportunity to relieve working processes while reducing the pressure on the environment with waste material. Finally, part of the proposed amendment is also a solution related to the implementation of the provisions of the European Directives, whose measures are also linked to taxation of covidu-19 vaccines and other diagnostic medical devices. Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a decision on the appropriateness of this novel for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Your Honor! The result of today's novelty is the implementation of the European Directive, which updates the value added tax in cross-border electronic commerce in the European Union. One novelty is the payment of VAT on imports of goods into the European Union that does not exceed the value of €22, so from 1 July onwards consumers will pay VAT for all goods ordered from countries outside the Union. In doing so, it is worth noting that, apart from the payment of VAT to consumers, nothing will change, as the exemption from customs duty for goods up to EUR 150 is still valid. The new VAT rules follow the establishment of a Digital Single Market, fairer treatment, less fraud and, above all, simplification of the current system. After the new ones, companies selling goods in the European Union will pay VAT via the Imam portal, which will be upgraded for this purpose. In fact, this represents a major step forward, given that so far these companies have had to register for VAT in the buyer country in which they have also paid VAT. This was expensive and burdensome for companies. With effect from 1 July 2021, new VAT rules will allow for the payment of EUR 10 000 in the Member State where the company is established, and companies will simply register above this threshold in the updated e-Vem portal in which they will report and pay the VAT they owe in other Member States. The novelty offers the possibility of deductible total VAT on electric vehicles for service use if their value does not exceed EUR 80 000. I believe you heard the date of July 1st more than once today. And if you thought that I was wrong or that I was talking about July 1st next year, I must point out that unfortunately this is not true. The fact is that the novelty has been based on long-known European law and that each Member State has been obliged to ensure timely implementation in order to establish an online platform for VAT payment in a timely manner and to bring the law into force with 1. Seven. 2021. More. Taxpayers should have sufficient time to prepare for the upcoming legislative changes to avoid problems in sensitive tax transactions. And so the taxpayers will look for a new online platform on the e-I know for a few months. They will continue to be subject to a costly and burdensome system because this government has failed to perform its task. The Minister of Finance, who is a tax expert, should be aware of this and be responsible for this delay. While he was still sitting in the parliamentary benches, he was the biggest advocate for the timely transposition of directives, and today, when he has scissors and canvas in his hands, he does exactly the same. The government, which does not submit such an important law to the procedure at least half a year before the deadline, is actually reviving the competitiveness of the domestic economy, the reputation of Slovenia in Europe and its citizens, which are bound by the new legislation. Fine-talking in theory and stepmom attitude in practice. In the SAB, the social liberals, we find that the novelties of the law are overcome with many inconsistencies. As always, even in this case, the government has not failed. The provisions are vague and inaccurate to the extent that the purpose of the legislator cannot be understood even through explanations. This is all the more important when we talk about strict tax legislation, which the taxpayers need to know to carry out in good time and in good time, because they are not forgiven or are costed by the smallest error. The ambiguity and inadequacy of such an important law is the reason that we will not vote in the SAB Group that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The primary objective of tax policy is to realize the planned budgetary revenues. The amount of tax revenue in the overall revenue structure is crucial in the function of achieving the budgetary objectives. The most important financial impact of value added tax is reflected in the extent and relative stability of the public revenues it provides and the volume of public revenues is linked to the definition of the tax base, the number and the amount of tax rates and the number of tax exemptions. The value added tax generally has a broad tax base and a high basic tax rate with a small number of tax exemptions and reduced rates. Another important feature of this tax type is its neutrality. This means that value added tax does not affect the decisions of producers and traders on what they will produce or sell and the decisions of customers on what they will buy. This is a matter of equal treatment between manufacturing and service companies and the labour and capital intensive industries. Due to value added tax, manufacturers and buyers also do not change the organisational forms or methods of their operation. The value added tax is the total revenue of the State budget. The annual amount of revenue under this heading was €3 billion and €817 million in 2019 and €3 billion in 2018 and €756 million in 2018. And what is most important about this is that value added tax revenues cover, in the longer term, between 35 per cent and 40 per cent of the total budget revenue and are thus the largest source. The correction of the VAT tax system is necessary due to the transposition of the European directives into Slovenian practice. The instruments to simplify VAT accounting procedures and instruments to prevent VAT avoidance in trade between Member States are at the centre of the functional purpose of these European Directives; amendments and additions also regulate the obligation to priorly notify the application of individual exemptions; the non-disclosure of identification for VAT purposes to a taxable person who is not established in Slovenia while fulfilling certain conditions; the content of the VAT calculation which allows the tax authority to be more flexible in clarifying in the e-tax system; tax relief or tax relief when purchasing an electric vehicle; and a set of simplifications and administrative burdens. It is also important to suggest that an account in paper form be issued only at the request of the customer. This proposal is in considerable conflict with the existing activities of the Market Inspectorate and the Financial Administration and will need to be removed from the text in the next stages of the legislative process. The obligation of the trader or service provider after the issuance of the paper account must remain. The financial effects on the expenditure side amount to EUR 2 million and EUR 420 000 and on the revenue side cumulatively around EUR 5 million, and cannot be fully quantified. Compared to annual value added tax revenues of less than 4 billion, these financial effects are indeed minimal, but they need to be seen in the light of all proposed changes in tax legislation, including income and corporate income tax, for reasons of the importance of the VAT collected in the implementation of all budgetary functions of the State. By the end of 2022, the Slovenian state budget has a total deficit of 7 billion and 800 million euros. Three financial years are covered here: the year 2020, where a deficit of little less than €3 and a half billion was realised, and the current year 2021 and the coming year 2022. Things are clear here. It is the expenditure that has been incurred and will continue to be incurred to remedy the damage caused by the epidemic. The risk of the deficit becoming unsustainable is high, especially in the implementation of low-tax policies. Low taxes are supported by a large number of citizens, especially those who lose such a policy alone, which is a kind of contradiction. Supporting low-tax policies means sub-conscious cooperation in the gradual destruction of all the social functions of the State. Citizens thus support their own marginalisation process, threatening the present and the future – theirs and their children. The policy of low taxes inevitably leads to increased fragmentation and social tensions, a decline in quality of life, an increase in crime and all kinds of extremism. The consequences can be devastating, especially in post-transition countries, where a newly enriched elite rarely feels for the right measure or sense of social responsibility. Slovenia is a sad illustration of this phenomenon. Low-tax policy only corresponds to a rich minority whose interest is partly logical and understandable. For this social group, it is not too important what they look like, for example, public education, public health or social security. Their incomes are high enough to pay for private services and thus provide for a comfortable or favourable age. It is also possible that some of them do not give a damn about what a similar society is all about, since they can meet their many needs abroad. The policy of higher progressive taxes and higher public spending raises quality of life and brings benefits to the vast majority of citizens. It is also useful for the richest minority. With life in a safer and more harmonious society, they too gain if we assume that money and consumption are not the only universe in which man is moving. Their wealth is also better protected in such an environment. Taking on higher, in particular progressive taxes is not the same as taking on a suicide policy of stripping taxpayers or turning petty human envy into tax pay. As everywhere in life, this is also a matter of real measure. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Desus Group will decide whether the law is suitable for further consideration on the basis of individual preferences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Let me let you know there's quite a few log-outs. So the first word is Blaž Pavlin, then Matjaž Han, Jože Lenart. Blaze Pavlin has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Personally, as I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, I support this bill for two reasons in particular. First of all, it brings great administrative and bureaucratic burdens. Here I am thinking mainly of the arrangement, the identification solution for the purposes of VAT in the field of agriculture. This is what the Chamber of Agriculture has been pointing out since 2016. This issue, however, has greatly increased at the beginning of this year, when the cadastral income for individual farms, in particular in the field of fruit production, has risen to a maximum and these farms have become taxpayers for VAT entry. This has created a number of administrative problems, notably the fact that you are in this system for one year, not the second year, and this has also been included in this cadastral income or in the revenue of taxable subsidies. I think that this proposal is now going in the direction proposed by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber at the time, which proposed that this entry threshold be increased. Now here's the solution to break the threshold. Those who wish to remain liable for VAT may then do so. The second thing I support this law is that it brings about some improvements in the area of green mobility. I personally understand this proposal or solutions in order to speed up the use of electric vehicles without leaks in areas that are highly connected to transport, delivery and the like, and I do not see any fear that only the owners of companies will be purchasing luxury cars. Let me also point out here that at the beginning of the year or the end of last year we adopted the DMV Act, it is said, with regard to the taxation of motor vehicles with which all citizens were exempt from the payment of this tax on motor vehicles, if they are powered by electricity. Personally, Article 2 of this Act also does not understand in the sense that it is only for cars, but for all motor vehicles, including electric-powered bicycles, electric-powered engines and all other vehicles which do not have CO2 emissions. I will personally support this proposal of the law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word, then Jože Lenart. Jani Prednik? [[No, no, ……]] The word is Jože Lenart. Get ready for Igor Patchek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. See, this Value Added Tax Act is, of course, one of the laws in the entire package of amendments to tax legislation, which brings together, in addition to investments in the military, health and other effects under the many laws to be adopted, a hole of as much as €5 billion in four years. Of course, it bothers us in particular why such a partial approach to this law and the government does not give a full examination of how we will cover this hole. With each law, we ask where the revenues are, what we will make up for it, and always this is the answer — with higher consumption. And if I simply say that there is higher consumption, there must be a higher added value, higher productivity. That's not what we're looking for. In this strategy, we're talking about how this growth is going to be, I don't know what it's going to be, but this growth is going to be 4, 5 percent in the first years and then 2, 3. He can't replace it in four years. The increase in added value should be so high that we can cover it up. See, even our government, when it raised only a minimum wage, which is an integral part of the added value – we know that wages represent at least 60 percent added, if not two thirds, depending on the performance of the economy or the individual country, there are profits left, depreciation, if you say in grave. And when you raise a minimum wage to get to that goal, which you say will then raise consumption, everyone is in the air, everyone is on their feet. Foreigners flee — in girdles. It is said that for foreigners, we are only interested in foreign investment if we are, if we are, sorry — in sayings — poor. It doesn't work together, not at all. So we warn this government to pour us pure wine, that we have the whole picture of where we're going, where the strategy is. She's gone! I come from the economy myself as a financier. With business plans at the company, you have to work very closely to see where the company is going. And that's how it has to be with the country. But we can't see it, you can't see it in such a partial way, and of course you can't confirm anything, raise your hand. On the one hand, it's a nice thing to do, to tax, but look again, I've made it very clear in this national council several times. The average of all taxes – I also speak with social contributions – we care about all services of citizens for health care, education, judiciary, the military and everything else. The European Union's average of taxes has increased and is already above 40 per cent of GDP and Slovenia is at 37 per cent. This is said to be three percentage points below the average of the European Union, and therefore we do not understand why we want to lower these taxes in such a manner. See, the European Commission has made it clear in the Tax Understanding Manual, and someone will say that it is now a pleasure. Colleague Polnar made it clear earlier that those who want low taxes cut their own ties. Why? Because then they won't be able to have these services provided, but then they'll pay for them themselves. What does the European Commission say? Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Higher than taxes, tax revenues from a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how these are collected. And if the government finances its budget more from taxes than from aid, then it is more responsible to its citizens than to donor countries – we are talking about foreign investments and also credits that the state must rent. Increasing tax revenues therefore helps to improve the governance of the country and promotes greater democraticism of the political system. What does that mean? That, of course, these taxes in consumption must be very clearly, democratically defined and consumption must be controlled so that people trust these governments. See, above the average of the European Union for all taxes is Germany, is Greece, is Austria, is Italy, is Finland, is Sweden, is Belgium, is Denmark, is France. On the tail are Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania and at the end of Ireland. Interesting! Ireland, which is on top after the creation of GDP, is a completely different model. I am in favour of following the Irish model, where, of course, it takes 10, 20 years with a clear strategy on how to attract services and foreign investors with very high added value so that you can come to this, then low taxes due to high productivity can cover it. I am in favour of this, but we want such a strategy on the table, not like this, but partially under individual laws less. And then we had to figure it out for ourselves to lose 5 billion in four years. That's the problem we don't have on the table, and that's the problem. Of course, then we ask the Fiscal Council in our country to do an analysis. Through the KNF, we adopted these conclusions that the Fiscal Council then gave its report and, of course, this report was that there was an additional risk of sustainability of public finances over the medium term, which was very clearly defined. It is said that we did not make this up politically as non-experts, but we did get a very professional basis for saying that. And that's it. That is all we want to do, and then it would make it easier for us to make decisions in this national assembly, and that is how much mistrust is. If I go to law school for a while. Of course, for every change in this law, there is a very broad content that affects the business of the debtors and each has its own way. And that's it. Just aligning with the European Directive – this is the least. And we're already late here, and this needs to be coordinated. Of course, when we touch on VAT deductions for motor vehicles to carry out activities, you wonder why, if the list of these options is very large, there are many warnings. But only these commercial vehicles fall in and nothing else. It is said that we can expect this change to continue over the years, and we will accept it further when we need it. I will only touch on this mandatory entry of farmers into the VAT system or this threshold is lifted. I welcome this in my own way, because look, our agriculture is very specific. It is most fragmented in the European Union. We have the smallest farms. There are 70 thousand agricultural holdings, of which only 230 are those agricultural companies, which, of course, are VAT-bound, all the rest are family businesses. But then there are only a few of these family companies over a thousand farms that are liable to VAT. About 2 thousand according to this criterion, 7 thousand 500 to go beyond, about 2 thousand 500 were included voluntarily in this system. And of course, when we break this threshold, then all other companies can volunteer – agricultural economies – to sign up for it. Of course, we note that most agricultural holdings have more than their initial VAT due to their investments and low income from farms. And here you are very concerned and we have something to worry about. This is our agriculture, which, because of its fragmentation on the world market, is very little competition. Here is this problem, which, of course, this law cannot solve, but like I said, farmers should decide for themselves whether they are bound or not. But what does this have to do with the budget, and much less, but farmers will now be freer, as far as this is concerned, and, of course, acceleration services must also be able to stand by and advise farmers about what will happen. I will touch on just one more matter: a paper bill will be handed to the customer only at his request and here consumers have responded. And very justified! I feel that way because I’m older, and at the time that we stopped the Social Book Service. What have we lost with this? Transparency, order and the black market and non-payment and so on and so on. Look, these accounts are of little importance, but they are of great importance to consumers. If he doesn't have an account now, it's a bunch of things that citizens and citizens need in the future to prove that we're solving something. If that doesn't happen, it's going to be a lot of trouble, and that's why I don't see why we stopped it. This is one such matter that I would like you to explain to her what will bring added value, or we are only harming ourselves, and we are applying impossibility and creating problems for citizens and citizens. At least here we could listen to consumers because they have very clearly pointed out these problems. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word, and Matjaž Han prepares and then Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! If I only partially relate to my colleague Lenart, and not to repeat myself, I am also of the opinion that one of the very important roles of the tax system or of the relevant tax policy is also ensuring competitive conditions for the economy, which is most crucial, but is also more widespread. It is the relationship or the appropriateness of the relationship between the objectives we want to achieve and the impact the tax system has on society as a whole. We all probably agree that taxes are not only an economic and fiscal category but also a social one. At the May meeting, the coalition proposed that all three tax reform laws be dealt with in an urgent manner. The proposal did not get a sufficient majority. However, the reason for the imposition of the urgency procedure should be because, in the event of the late adoption of the bill, there may be severe remedial consequences for the country. But in my view, it is precisely the other way around; such behaviour will only have severe remedial consequences both for public finances and, consequently, for the country. I also say this in the light of the fact, or what I said in the introduction, that there was no dialogue with the Economic and Social Council on the consideration of the package of all three proposed laws which have a very strong impact on tax policy. We believe that the treatment of a fairly large tax reform should also be carried out with a view to achieving or, at least in some way, agreeing on several criteria for assessing what this will bring us over the next few years. However, I also believe that, at a time when we are facing a very large deficit in the state budget, this is today more than 2 billion, when we are planning very large investments, so fundamentally and so severely interfering with the state budget, such behaviour is certainly neither prudent nor rational. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we were much more cautious when we started our own enforcement procedures, and I will say, mini tax reform. At that time, we were the only regressors in particular, and we introduced all the other things or proposals, and then we accepted them, in a package. With the same attention at the time, we viewed both the income and the expenditure side. The measures we took were simply a change in the income scale, an increase in general relief – not to mention them. But between them, which was common to all of these measures, they were at least approximately balanced. Because we took it away on one side, we tried to replace it on the other. We've been trying to offset revenue and expenditure. But at the time, the Fiscal Council had already expressed a certain concern regarding this proposed reform that the proposals would have in future public finances. I certainly miss measures at the revenue level. How we're gonna make up for this exit, I'm asking the government's representatives. I have repeatedly asked this question, I have not received an answer, no calculations as to how much higher economic growth or consumption we can expect, and neither can this. Nor have any measures been presented so far that would be necessary to neutralise the fiscal impact on the balance in the budget. In LMŠ, as colleague Lenart has already said, we do not believe that all of this will be recovered through public consumption or through consumption, I am not just talking about public consumption, but in general. Even the fiscal world doesn't believe that. The government, however, does not even try to convince us of the latter or the other. You may do so in the second reading if this proposal is confirmed in the first reading that it is appropriate for further consideration. I hope so much. The fact is that the changes in the proposed law are not great, but they need to be seen together, both with proposals for amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and in amendments to the Income Act. And when we take it together as a sum, according to the calculations prepared by the Fiscal Council, the proposed tax reform in the following year would amount to more than 400 million losses on the revenue side. And if, in this light, we also look at the analysis or report on the public finances of the proposed changes made in the Fiscal Council on the Commission's proposal to monitor public finances, at least public financial guardians can be concerned if they do not have to worry about all of us. Here is certainly Mr Davorin Kkout's statement on tax reform, when he said that the Government assumes in the medium term that the gross domestic product will increase nominally at a rate of 5 per cent. This is a relatively optimistic forecast, but if we want to compensate for the loss resulting from the proposed measures, this growth should be at least one and a half if not two percentage points. In the coalition, you like to say how cheap it is to be owed to us by the government and not to worry about it. A while ago, we listened to similar flossules when we talked about excise duties, about the cost of fuel. At the time, the price of diesel was 1 euro. The critic on the right was a whole bunch. Today the price of diesel is 1.3. Then how am I supposed to believe we shouldn't worry about borrowing? It is important to be aware that the debt is not only due to good government actions but rather to the cheap debt owed to most of the Member States of the European Union and also to the Republic of Slovenia, as a result of the relatively expansive policy of the European Central Bank, which we know will eventually expire. We know what it was or what it was like to be indebted to Ireland, which was mentioned earlier in the discussion by colleague Lenart, and what the impact was also that I did not say just a pandemic purchase of bonds. Some are epidemics, some are measures that need to be taken to control the epidemic. We are not opposed to this; we have never voted against the measures taken in the LMC. Secondly, the permanent or structural measures proposed, in our view, have been implemented, without an adequate basis or a reasonable assumption of what will happen both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side of the budget. But I would also point to one more thing in the proposed law, that I do not repeat myself, because all the changes were expressed or highlighted in the positions, these are invoices. We are in an age when digitisation is so deeply affecting our lives that it changes business processes. I personally support processes that simplify procedures and, as a result, reduce costs, but I am not sure it is wise that, for reasons of the positive environmental impact of non-delivery of paper accounts, a well-functioning system of fiscalisation of accounts is being abolished. You can say, okay, the buyer will get a simplified bill on request, but the Union of Consumers of Slovenia considers that this solution is to the detriment of consumers. In fact, since the invoice issued, as we know today, allows the consumer to check immediately whether the seller has charged him the correct amount and, later, after the purchase of the goods or services with it, can also prove when and where he bought a particular product or when and where a particular service was provided. The account has a high evidentiary value in the sales process, a condition for the exercise of different rights under both contracts, guarantees, guarantees and other legal relations, and I would point out here or more to one conflict. The market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia warned both consumers and sellers a few years ago or a long time ago that they should take the account for their benefit. We remember the action Turn your mind on, ask for an account. And here we can draw a rather simple conclusion that this proposal is certainly not compatible with or inconsistent with what it has carried out or with the activities carried out by the Market Inspectorate in the past period, nor with what the competent institutions have advocated. I think that we should be much more careful when deciding on such practices. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli, prepare Jura Ferrjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. In our position, we have already practically said why and what we are somehow criticizing this thing, but I think it's appropriate to say something else here because I have a chance. As far as the news of VAT payments is concerned. I think it is just that the European Union must start thinking this way. Now I don't know what experience you have with this, but I have two kids at home who come to me every week with these packages from the Chinese home. And if my two are like that, I think there's something on this account in Europe. So there's talk of big numbers, a little bit becomes something big. I think it's also the right thing to do. I see the problem of some protection of a consumer who is not here. All that comes, about whether you get, you're satisfied, you have to pay in advance and so on, and I think it hasn't been done enough, and there's not much in the law or in the transposition of this directive. Now, I can't understand just one thing here – why such a delay in this law. That's unwarranted. The delay is heavy, it's severe. There was no meeting where the minister would criticize the work of any previous government, the legislators, I mean, are always the same ones who write. Even if the minister changes, it changes a few people, but the others stay there. So I think that here we could do something and demand a little bit more up-to-date than the transpositions of these directives. As I mentioned, this 1. 7. It was two weeks ago, that is to say, we are late in any case. Something disturbed me in my position when I heard that some were critical of the deduction of the total VAT on electric vehicles. Personally, I welcome that. I think it's a very good thing, absolutely good thing. It always comes down to the rich, the poor. That's not what this is about! It's just that we start thinking about decarbonizing, and we start thinking about another way, if we're going to do this. And I don't understand literally the party of the Left. Excuse me, mate, my friend, Siter, indeed, your position – driven. You are like us, you are in that category driven for sustainable progress and I do not see what burdens you here to be subsidized in this way. But I'd like to ask myself something else, and I'd rather ask myself something else. Every day I come from Primorska and believe that when I get to the highway until I get to Ljubljana, there is a column of trucks. What are we gonna do there? One of the nice mottos was that SMC used to be a train truck or something, I think. I hope this happens slowly, but I hope we don't wait another 30 years, because then it doesn't make sense if we have to do it in due course. But as for electricity, subsidies for electric vehicles, I have another dilemma here. How are we gonna fill all these cars? In your own words. How are we going to power all this? But we are aware of what I mean, the government should first introduce a change in the entire infrastructure and then go on to subsidise cars. [[…]] We're working backwards now, we're working backwards here. I am for one thing and for another, and I will always support it, but I have not yet seen any concrete proposal to change the infrastructure of the electric lines and everything it is. When I was mayor, I made two stations to load cars, now it would take 15 because these cars are really expanding. The problem is not only that, but the problem is also the power supply, the real electricity, up to there. Here's the biggest problem. I'm just saying that people understand what this is all about. We are now going to subsidize the purchases of electric cars, but the electricity is going to go up in the air to get a home run. We don't have the power, we don't have the capacity to hold it if people turn to it. You yourself have heard that the automotive industry is turning around extremely, now they even want to leave the gasoline, diesel and all that stuff here. It's all nice and nice. I welcome all of this. I'm extremely happy about this. That is why, as a state, the current government, we must prepare documents, the next one to go on with this idea or what it is. We need to start thinking about infrastructure, because without it we will do nothing. I'm not talking about the phone, the cars are loaded, the power is strong, I know what this is about personally. That's it. That's it. As far as I'm concerned. In the SAB, in social liberals, we have found that this novel has been read with many inconsistencies, as I have said. Certain provisions are rather vague, imprecise inside. Even if you are reading an explanation, it is not possible to understand everything that could be. I believe that the laws are written in such a way that it is often not understandable that you can interpret the law in one way or another. But that's not right! In a situation like this, we should be a little more specific. This was the only reason why we will not vote that the law is suitable for further consideration. So much for me. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrjan." Get ready for Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, honourable Members and honourable Members and all those who accompany us are a good day! I have decided, however, to speak for a few moments myself and point out those points of this law that we are considering today in our first reading, which means that even if you have certain concerns or suggestions, of course, it will be time in the future to include it in this law or to supplement it accordingly. This is a measure – one of the laws which naturally affects an area that is very important in terms of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, of course indirectly affects development and investment, and what our economy is also in some international scale, an international environment. I am convinced that we all want and, of course, we also want to do so, that the Slovenian economy will be successful in the future, that it will be encouraging for both domestic and foreign investment and that we will strive together for the development, progress and creation of added value. So allow me to highlight this law. One sure is the abolition of the threshold for entry into the VAT system by maintaining the possibility of applying flat-rate compensation or voluntary entry into the VAT system, then we have the application of a deduction of value added tax also for motor vehicles for carrying out activities, namely vehicles without carbon dioxide emissions. This law, which is respected and respected, also gives greater flexibility to the tax authority to explain then the value added tax to be submitted by the taxpayers through the eTax system, and it will not be necessary for taxpayers to submit a list of received and issued invoices at the first value added tax invoice. There's also a certain matter to be pointed out, but that's it for a short time. I think it is important that we adopt this law today, of course, and that we will then be able to further improve it if necessary, and this is certainly one of the steps that improves our economy or business conditions, the conditions for international competitiveness. In this way, I will personally support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act in today's first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter, get ready for mags. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President. Good day again, honourable Members and Members! In my position, I have already tried to explain what it is that the inter-class of this law or of all the laws contained in the tax reform package is quite clear. It is a system-wide creation of a more favourable environment for those citizens and citizens who are already essentially more wealthy. This is not now a matrix to which one of my predecessors has warned, a matrix or some political idea of the Left, it is a purely measurable fact which is drawn from these proposed laws; the most conveniently possible in the case of this law, simply measured through, to say, a simple tax language is this. In principle, we know two ways or two systems, two ideas of tax policy: one is progressive tax and the other is linear – what looks linear or regressive. The progressive or the tax that we know as income means that in the free language, the more you contribute, the less you make, the less you contribute, or if you are in such a critical situation that you can’t contribute anything, you don’t contribute anything. It's called a progressive tax. On the other hand, there is a regressive tax, for example, in our case there is a value added tax, which at first glance is linear, so we all pay the same for it, but essentially the one that has a starting with less, which has a lower income, which has less assets, hits the pocket more. For example, if this computer, which is worth, say, a thousand euros, buys someone who has a monthly minimum wage and manages to cash in and pays a tax on what is 200 euros, the 200 euros in his personal budget will be significantly higher than if that same amount for that same computer, the same amount of 200 euros will be allocated to the value added tax by someone who incurs 5,000 or 20,000 euros per month into his wallet. Now this proposal, which we now have on the table, destroys both social and fiscal order. On the one hand, lowering the progressive tax, lowering the income that benefits only the richest again – the one with a lot can contribute to the common good – and, on the other hand, increasing the value added tax of the most affected poor, which I have shown most clearly precisely by the example of buying this computer. Taxation of an individual in an idea must be disproportionate to the thickness of his wallet. This is the most fair definition or tax measure and not the other way around, as the current government proposes with these tax measures or reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again, everyone, welcome! I will not repeat what I have already pointed out in my position, but perhaps some responses to the debates, but I would also point out what is important to me in this proposal of the law, which is actually in the first reading, and will be able to comment on the follow-up process and perhaps any concerns that have come to light today during the debate can also be amended, corrected, supplemented, so that the law is open and everyone will have the opportunity to propose improvements. At the outset, I would like to tell my colleague Bandell, otherwise I have now been able to verify only one directive because he has repeatedly pointed out that he does not understand why he is only now in a hurry to implement, because he would have actually expected a proposal for amendments to the table six months before the deadline. I'll tell you. Directive 2017/2455 amending Directive 2009/132 should already be implemented by 31. 12. 2018, which means that it was actually at the time of the government in which they were also in the coalition. So perhaps a fellow Member and his delegation could ask themselves what they were doing at the time, why they did not propose implementation in the government. So much for the intro. Furthermore, I agree with those who have said that the actual amendment of the law does bring about really better competitive conditions, because we know that a lot of people do not decide to enter employment in our country because of uncompetitive business conditions, and therefore it is more than welcome to introduce as soon as possible those changes that simplify certain procedures and also allow entry into our country. I am disturbed by what is already in the debates – not only today, but also in the past, perhaps the most pronounced of colleagues from the Left: every time we mention businesses and entrepreneurs, it always turns out immediately, yes, those who are actually exploiters or those who are rich on the shoulders of employees. But perhaps if you had the opportunity to talk to successful entrepreneurs, you have probably found that there were no exceptions – with exceptions, of course, we will always get exceptions between them – but in principle those who built their story from nothing but their own ingenuity and their own means, it was not easy for them. It can be seen today when they have so much capital and so many employees, but they also have a lot of responsibility over the years. I think that if they also have a lot of employees, it means that there is also some social benefit, not just to look at from the point of view that employees are being exploited. I therefore welcome this introduction of the right to a 100% deduction of VAT on electric vehicles, up to the value of 80 000 and also for all spare parts, lubricants and services related to the vehicle, which we know are rather burdened roads and therefore have a major impact on environmental pollution from a business point of view. Of course, what some from both the coalition and the opposition have said would be good and meaningful to transfer not only to business but also to natural persons. Perhaps this is now the beginning and will continue with this change. Why not? Then, with regard to the abolition of the threshold for obligations for the entry of farmers into the VAT system. That farmers will have the option of voluntary inclusion in the VAT system is particularly welcome because farmers, given that there are many of them from smaller farms – it is said whether they have an additional activity on the farm or the status of a farmer – and we know in fact that in the abundance of all taxes they are difficult to deal with those who are actually larger. Then I would like to comment further on what has been said regarding the obligation to deliver an account. We're not talking about treason here. These are two different matters: one is the issue of an account that will still be mandatory and will remain after this change, and the other is the transfer of an account. Indeed, the Union of Consumers has pointed out what we have all received, that from the point of view of the consumer is questionable. However, given the practice that has also occurred in inspections, that there are many entrepreneurs – and again, of course, by running with entrepreneurs – we can always say unwittingly that an entrepreneur has made it inadvertent or in order to either avoid paying the tax or whatever – and that they are actually or only due to their premature reaction or because they are not particularly speaking where the mass and movement of people in which the invoices are issued is greater that the fines have been received by the tax authority. [[…]] And those fines aren't that low. In fact, such a fine cost a lot of income or what could actually be put into development or some new investment in the company. Therefore, I believe that where it comes to handing over an account, whether on a guarantee or otherwise, the customer will certainly be alone, as well as the seller, or where this buyer will buy some goods or services, will certainly be warned. I don't think there's gonna be any abuse or pretentious buyers on the part of the bidders. Therefore, we need to look from that environmental point of view and practical point of view that it is well intentioned here to reduce the issuance of accounts and not just by trying to do something bad. Then I would just say that, despite the fact that this negative financial impact on the state budget is so many times exposed, of course, any change, almost any change, even those relating to the amendment of tax legislation, has a financial effect. [[…]] Some changes are slightly smaller, others slightly larger, but if we look from the point of view that we will not do anything to cause too much damage, I think this bill does not work, but it also brings in the income side of the asset. This is not a matter of emptying the state budget. In the long run, the consequences are positive. That is why I also support this proposal, and I will certainly support the process to be carried out further in order to deal with it in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Government, you want a word? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would respond to today's most frequently-exposed case in today's debate on why the directive is now being implemented into law and on accounts. With regard to the question of why we are now implementing the directive into law, I can stress that, in fact, the European Commission has only published guidelines which are important for the implementation of the regulation at the end of last year. The law was then prepared, and the procedure was also proposed and dealt with in the National Assembly in May and June. However, because of the introduction of the VAT law and the decision of the National Assembly on the dynamics of the handling of procedures, it is only now the case. In order to be able to start implementing EU e-commerce legislation in a timely manner, we have only regulated this part of the e-commerce to the extent possible by means of sub-legislative rules. Let me point out the accounts. It's basically about eliminating the printing of accounts. The debtors must still record the traffic and therefore issue the invoices, but do not have to print them, and deliver them to the buyer on request. This follows the environmental aspect and cost-effectiveness of lowering the costs for debtors, less printing of accounts, and consequently eliminates the threat of fines due to non-accounting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 71? I guess not. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 36. Agenda item — First draft of the Waste Incineration and Commodity Equipment Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Moon. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The law before us regulates the equivalence of standards for incineration plants and co-incineration plants. More importantly, we are talking about the problem of the Salonit Anhovo cement plant. This one celebrated the 100th anniversary this year. It was built at a time when Anhovo was together with the entire Slovenian Primorsko for the Rapalski border under Italy. And in these hundreds of years, the inhabitants of the valley of Central Soca lived with this cement plant. The cement plant, which produced asbestos in the good part of its existence, left a directly horrifying blood tax on the health of the population there. Asbestos broke out in the 1990 ’ s, and various cancers immediately followed. The statistics are as follows: between 1998 and 2016, according to the 18-year period, there were 559 cases of asbestososis in Slovenia, of which 500 were from the Central Soča area; pleural plaques in Slovenia at this time a thousand 886 cases, of which in Anhove and around a thousand 773; and similar to mesothelioma, these are very aggressive cancers, 189 cases, of which 128 in Anhove. Nevertheless, we have today in Anhove or in this valley, because it affects a wider co-incineration plant, which is in fact the largest Slovenian incineration plant. While the Celje incinerator burns 30,000 tons of waste a year, Anhovo, although it is actually a cement plant that burns waste as a fuel, burns up 100,000 tons. So Celje 30 000, Anhovo 100 thousand tons, by making Salonit Anhovo's further application to Arso for a 25% increase in permitted combustion. Even more alarming are the data on the emissions of this activity: while millions of pounds of carbon monoxide were released into the air in Anhove in 2018, thousands of pounds [261 kg] of this substance were released in Celje, says thousands of times less. While 100 thousand kilograms of compounds, expressed as organic carbon, were released into the air in Anhovea in 2018, they amount to a thousand times less. And so on. In short, because of discriminatory treatment of incineration plants compared to co-incineration plants in Anhove, even though the cement plant has already left a terrible tax on the health of the population and the pollution of the environment there, they are also venting thousands of times more harmful compounds than is possible or allowed in a waste incineration plant in Celje. This is not only mentioned in Levica and in the civil initiatives in this area with which we have drawn up the law, but this is pointed out by the Slovenian medical profession in virtually unanimity. 593 doctors signed a letter a year and a half ago calling for immediate action and protection of the health of the population and the environment there. Finally, in November 2019 experts had a round table on the environmental and health impacts of waste incineration, where they unanimously warned that what was happening in Anhove was unacceptable and that the health of the inhabitants should be protected. We have repeatedly warned politicians about this issue, one of the biggest health and environmental problems in Slovenia. Finally, on 20 February 2020, we had a Joint Committee on Infrastructure and Health, where we adopted six conclusions, after which the Government would organise a working group to explore the possibilities of equating the standards of co-incineration plants and incineration plants and to present solutions within six months. Well, of this is now a year and a half, nothing has happened, so in Levica and in the local civil initiatives, we decided to introduce a law that would make this unacceptable and unconstitutional discrimination that cost the inhabitants of Anhove and the surrounding areas their lives, transform into law and order.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Dear Members, honourable Members and Chairman! I will only briefly present the opinion of the Government or the Ministry of the Environment and Space on the proposed law, namely, the proposal for a law on waste incineration and co-incineration facilities was submitted by eight Members. The proposed law seeks to eliminate the differences between emissions from waste incineration plants and waste co-incineration plants, thus eliminating discrimination between residents in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government does not support this proposal, as it undermines the systemic approach of environmental legislation through its content and approach, as set out in the Environmental Protection Act. In addition, in the draft law, which exacerbates emission limit values, it is also possible to feel a lack of technical expertise or understanding of the waste co-incineration or incineration process. The Environmental Protection Act is a statutory law and all other matters are governed by regulations. We have a Regulation on waste incineration and co-incineration facilities for this area. This was adopted in 2016 under the Environmental Protection Act. The Regulation also transposes into our legal order a European directive in this area, which is addressed to incineration and co-incineration of waste. The proposed law, however, follows the structure of this Regulation and amends or tightens the individual provisions. In view of the comparative legal aspect, the law introduces an unacceptable derogation from the system approach, which means that, instead of regulations, all other activities, combustion plants, installations for activities where organic solvents and installations in the production of titanium dioxide are used and so on, laws should also be adopted. The European Directive brings the mandatory application of BAT conclusions to the Slovenian legal order, saying that this application has already been in our legal order since 2019 and has been transposed into our legislation. All facilities or installations shall be sufficient to operate this BAT conclusion or adapt to them by the end of 2023. The proposal for a law does not define the application of BAT conclusions, so it also introduces an anomaly into the legal system from this point of view. When transposing directives, it is also necessary to draw up a correlation table – we are now talking about this directive dealing with BAT conclusions – which is then to be submitted to the European Commission for notification and not submitted to this proposal by such a table, so it is not possible to assess the appropriateness of the transposition of the directive into this new law. Then there is the technical aspect of the shortcomings of this law, stating that incineration plants have stricter limit values than co-incineration plants. The limit values are the same in both cases, for some pollutants: heavy metals, dioxins and furans, the limit values for co-incineration are even one third more restrictive. So here, this proposal would eliminate the difference between certain thresholds, which could even increase emissions from co-incineration plants for some pollutants. Noting that the population in Slovenia is most affected by the high emissions of substances in the air at the Anhovo cement plant, according to the measurements carried out regularly by Arso, is not true. So we have similar values for Ars measurements in other areas. It is then mentioned that the association or mention that asbestos and co-incineration are related, so far no accurate evidence has been provided by the NIPO. Equivalence of emissions of nitrogen oxides for incinerators and co-incineration devices is difficult or even impossible to provide – it is a matter of different technologies. On the other hand, NOx contaminants form nitrogen, which is most present in the atmosphere, but not in co-incineration waste. Repeal of existing regulations [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Madam Secretary of State, please finish because your time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	I'm sorry. I only have one more sentence. The bill would also have the effect of a legislative void, namely the bill repealing, inter alia, the Regulation on Emissions of Substances to Air from Installations for Production Cement, although this Regulation does not address — Waste — but provides for the operation of cement in the use of purely conventional fuels. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. You'll still have time to discuss it if you have to add something. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first one gets the word, Mr Leon Merjasec. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament have a nice greeting! The proposed law lays down the conditions for obtaining an environmental protection authorisation for the operation of waste incineration plants and co-incineration plants, emission limit values of the substance to air and measures for the control of emissions of the substance to air, the emission limit values of the waste in the discharge of waste water and measures for the control of emissions of the substance from waste gas treatment plants, the rules on waste management and residues, the conditions of operation and the requirements for operational monitoring of emissions of the substance to air and emissions of the substance in the discharge of waste water. When comparing the text of the Waste Incineration Act and the waste co-incineration plants and the Incineration Regulation, it is possible to establish that the proposed law follows the structure of the Incineration Regulation and amends only individual provisions. The proposal for a law on waste incineration and co-incineration plants governs the matter under the authority of the Government. The proposed law thus undermines the systemic approach of environmental legislation, as set out in the PSC-1. Nor does the law determine the best available technologies, which is essential under the European Union Directive for incineration plants and co-incineration plants. Noting that incineration plants have stricter standards for limit values than for co-incineration plants, it is difficult to establish, since the limit values in both cases are the same as for some snow-sleeves – heavy metals and dioxins and furans – and the limit values in co-incineration plants are even one third more restrictive than for incineration plants. The adoption of the proposed law would eliminate the difference, which could even increase the exemption from co-incineration plants for some snows. The draft law provides in the transitional provision that the Ministry shall, within six months of the official duty, verify and harmonise the environmental permit with the new law and the operator shall then, within six months of the legal capacity of the environmental permit, align the operating facilities with the environmental permit, which constitutes a very short period during which a variety of devices will not be able to adapt to the new requirements. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Space, by decision of May 2020, has set up an interdepartmental working group to explore the possibility of equating emission standards from co-incineration plants with those from incineration waste. Given that the epidemic has been abolished, the tasks are already being carried out and we therefore consider it appropriate to wait for the results of this group, so we will not support this law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Rudi Medved. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the enchanted circle of environmental protection and waste management, state bureaucracy resorts to the interpretation of the rules of the Czech Republic and the industry understands environmental protection as an administrative obstacle. Then there are people here who have to live with the consequences of this vicious circle and claim with all right nothing more than their own: they demand a healthy environment. Is the country ready to go to the local population? This must not be a question at all; the question can only be how and how quickly. Because of past asbestos production, people in the lower Soča valley are already one of the most disadvantaged in Slovenia. For at least the last 15 years or more, they have been exposed to emissions from the co-incineration of cement waste of Salonit Anhovo in the Municipality of Kanal ob Soča. On average, almost 300 tons of incinerated waste per day. The environmental permit allows for almost 90 different types of waste, including hazardous waste. National and European legislation allow cement co-incineration plants to have higher emission limit values than waste incineration plants, i.e. higher values. Taking public health and environmental protection into account, this is a complete nonsense because emissions are emissions, irrespective of the source of pollution. The allowed higher emission values for cement plants place the local population at such co-incineration plant in the position of second-class citizens. The first step towards improving the situation is, in the opinion of the LMŠ, to align the emission limit values of co-incineration plants with incinerators. The limit values of pollutants are one way or another a political agreement. Where is that limit when it does not affect human health, however, is a grey zone of compromise between the interests of public health, industry and politics. When people see that they are not part of this compromise, they bend and raise their voices. And we need to hear that voice. If the municipal council of Soča requested the State to verify the relevant legislation in the field of incineration and co-incineration of waste, state institutions must do so. The use of European legislation is attracted to hair because nowhere in the country does it say that the state must not tighten standards if this dictates public health care. The Health and Infrastructure Committees and the Environment of this call from the National Assembly have followed and called on the Government, together with the professional, local and cement populations, to look at what needs to be done to begin with at least the limit values of incineration plants and co-incineration plants. At least that. Well, of course nothing happened. The government now cites the epidemic as an excuse. And that something's gonna happen, and he says it's gonna be six months after the outbreak's over. Who knows whether tomorrow or tomorrow's epidemic will be re-announced and so on and so on and when these six months will be. In addition, the Government is also talking about a systemic approach in its response. This government, which cuts through legislation and does not take account of any systemic solutions, the best case for this is the recent collapse of the Water Act, but here they will go through the system. But, of course, this system will be considered only after the outbreak has been lifted. And so this working group met late once and environmental minister Vizjak sees no problem in cement discharges. He doesn't even see the problem if the consequences of asbestos production have an impact on public health in the valley below. Yes, they do, but more than 20 years of co-incineration of waste in the cement plant without a doubt – and of course it is attached and it is also loudly warned by the medical profession – no doubt the influence! It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government opposes this law and, judging from its response to the will for a concrete intervention, there is not at all. That is why this law is the trigger; this law is the trigger for something to move. To appeal to the people, to our fellow citizens, and to go in front of them. A healthy living environment cannot and must not be privileged. It must not depend on the happiness of where you were born or where you live, and it cannot be a constant matter of compromise, especially if people are excluded from it. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we heard the voice of the people in the lower Soča Valley, and we also understand their problems, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Sonibo Knezak. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Government representatives, respectable colleagues, colleagues! An effective legal framework for sustainable environmental protection is one of the objectives of the programme Self-confidence Slovenia of Social Democrats. The objective is to ensure an effective, quality and transparent legal framework in the area of sustainable environmental protection. Today's bill, which has been tabled in the legislative process by the Levica Group, can be placed in the context of the objective that we Social Democrats have entered into our programme. Applicants with a proposal shall pursue several objectives, the main of which is to balance the height of the substance in the air in incineration plants and co-incineration plants. The proposed objective would be achieved by the solutions they have written down in seven points. The solutions are seen in the equation of NOx emission limit values for incineration plants and co-incineration plants, in order to remove exemptions in excess of the sulphur gas emission limit values, to establish the obligation to report the operational monitoring data without delay and to implement permanent mercury measurement. Health is a human right that must by no means be jeopardised by such or other interests. It is only in the last decade that experts in various fields have identified the harmful effects of incineration and co-incineration of waste on human health. The so-called emission cocktails have catastrophic consequences for human health and the environment, and these effects are shown in cancer and other serious diseases and unfortunately also in early death numbers. The Government does not favour the proposal, but the concerns and comments come from other types as well. It is clear that incineration and co-incineration leave certain effects on the environment and health of people, but simply oppose proposals coming from different circles, how this area should be regulated, is not a solution. We believe that even the smallest step towards improving the situation in a particular area is important and necessary, as this is the only way to reach the final goal that we all want, regardless of political direction. It is in the interest of all of our peoples and peoples' health and it is right that proposals that solve the problem and are well prepared and, above all, agree with them a wider range of stakeholders, which are also affected by the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the health and quality of life of our citizens and residents is paramount and that this must not be conditioned or subordinated to different interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In Slovenia we have a very strange and confusing situation, you might say absurd. This absurdity is that incinerators in our country are subject to stricter emission conditions than co-incineration plants. In particular, this means that the current largest co-incineration plant is incinerated annually more than the largest incineration plant in the country on the other hand. This is Salonit Anhovo and Celje incinerator. This very simply means very large releases into the atmosphere, which – clearly – affect the quality of the air, the quality of the soil, the quality of the water, in general the environment and ultimately, in this chain, the health of the people. In 2018 alone, Salonit Anhovo burned three times as much waste as the incinerator in Celje. So there are 58 times more emissions of nitrogen oxides, there are thousands more emissions of organic compounds and 22 times higher emissions of sulphur oxides. This and, of course, the other substances released into the environment by the co-incineration of cement waste mean, of course, a serious degradation of the environment and, even more importantly, the health effects of the inhabitants of the region. As we heard earlier in the proposaler's introduction, the Central Soča Valley, places such as the Desk, Anhovo, the Soča Canal, have very serious consequences in this centuries-long stay with the cement plant in Anhove. Residents in this area, if we go to look at data on the occurrence of certain diseases, mainly related to harmful substances in the air between 1998 and 2016, we will get really scary data. The population of these areas represents 90 per cent of all patients with asbestososis, the population of these areas represents 95 per cent of all patients with pleural plaque in Slovenia and 68 per cent of the population in these areas represents 68 per cent of all mesotheliomas, says malignant lung formations. This is specifically the result of such policies. Of course, we have a period in human history where awareness of environmental pollution has been low, but we cannot say that for the past few decades. Here we are faced with the fact that in 2021 we are still witnessing one of the worst industrial pollutants in the country that has actually found a new profitable activity in burning waste. It could also be some kind of greenwashing, if you want, but what is crucial is that all competent institutions, despite the numerous warnings of residents, civil initiatives, doctors and so on, do nothing. Moreover, Salonit Anhovo goes and asks for an additional increase, a 25% increase in permitted releases, and so on. The fact is, in no case can we close our eyes to the global environmental crisis we are witnessing. I saw a graph on the web days ago that kind of shows a clock of human awareness of the global environmental crisis. In the end, you have some kind of short red belt where it says – sorry – “fuck it”. And there we are. We're at a point where we should hit all the brakes and switch to reverse gear. 50 degrees Celsius in northern Canada, where shellfish are cooked in the sea, the threat that young salmon in Sacramento River will die due to high temperatures is something we must stop at the moment. And a similar situation is actually with co-incineration devices; but it's a long way from where we should limit these emissions. Let me stress once again that the locals have been putting pressure on local decision makers, on the business itself, on the ministry for decades. In the National Assembly we had several meetings of the committee, which also imposed certain measures, but the Ministry of Environment and Space does nothing. That is why we in the Levica Group have decided to prepare this law to bring these releases to a higher level, so to speak, to the legal level, and thus to limit this wild pollution. From this point of view, our proposal is very simple: putting people, people's health ahead of interests and the desire for the profits of large companies. Very simple, this is today's debate, because the ministry has done nothing, we have proposed this solution. I think that this is some first step, some minor gesture mainly for the local population, which must be followed by a complete reform of our environmental policy in this country, because this will not go any further. We will, of course, support this law in Levic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Michael Prevc, who will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on incineration and co-incineration plants lays down the conditions for obtaining an environmental permit for the operation of waste incineration plants and co-incineration plants, emission limit values, emissions and control measures, emission limit values for waste water emissions, waste management rules and residues, operating conditions and requirements for operational monitoring of emissions of substances into the air and emissions of substances in the discharge of waste water. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the bill because the Law on Environmental Protection at legal level fully regulates the system of rights and obligations of natural and legal entities in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia, which also applies to industrial pollution. The Environmental Protection Act is a roof law that together with sub-laws forms a comprehensive system of environmental law in the country. The Environmental Protection Act in Article 17 empowers the Government to set emission limit values which, under normal conditions of operation of the installation or operation, may not be exceeded, the degree of reduction of environmental pollution and the related equivalent parameters and technical measures, the effects of the environmental burden and the obligation to ensure that operational monitoring is carried out. Pursuant to that Article in the Environmental Protection Act, a Regulation on waste incineration and co-incineration at the Government was adopted on waste incineration plants and waste co-incineration plants, which regulates the conditions for obtaining an environmental permit, limit values for the emission of substances into the air and for the removal of waste water and control measures, waste management rules, operating conditions and requirements for operational monitoring. Compared with the text of the draft law before us and the Incineration Regulation, we can find that the proposal follows the structure of the regulation, and only amends certain provisions. Incineration regulations shall lay down in detail the rights and obligations of operators and shall, in numerical terms, prescribe emission values which may not be exceeded in the operation of installations. These obligations are detailed in the table form in the Annexes. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we agree with the Government's view that this approach of the Incineration Act is particularly appropriate for regulations under the law. From a legal point of view, such a standardization approach at law level is inadequate and thus does not follow the Resolution on normative activities. Since the draft law therefore regulates the matter which is within the power of the executive branch and which is governed by the rules of law, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats cannot give a green light for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law on incineration plants and waste co-incineration plants, which lists as a central objective the stricter conditions for the operation of waste co-incineration units. It is known that combustion and co-incineration devices have an impact on air quality in their immediate vicinity. Initially, we would like to point out what the drafter points out in the document itself, namely that Slovenia is already following the European directives which set limits for individual emissions and installations. It is also true that the Regulation established different limit values for nitrogen oxides for incineration plants and co-incineration plants. In doing so, it is imperative to point out that because of the specific functioning of the co-incineration devices, they cannot possibly achieve as low emissions of nitrogen oxides as they are achieved by incineration plants. This is a completely different technology and a way of doing business. This should also take into account the fact that the emission limit values required for incineration plants and co-incineration plants for most measurable parameters are numerically the same despite completely different technologies. Thus, between many parameters there is only inequality in the release of nitrogen oxides. Both incineration plants and waste co-incineration units have many positive effects on our society by applying the principles of the circular economy. These include mainly reducing the size of landfills. Incineration or co-incineration makes waste energy, which can be used mainly in the energy and cement industries. In Slovenia we have only one larger cement plant, which is of exceptional importance for our country. As far as we are aware, this cement plant is putting a lot of effort into reducing the negative impacts on the environment, which also shows the results of the measurements in recent years. In the next three years, however, they themselves anticipate an investment in reducing emissions of €40 million. In doing so, it is irrelevant that the actual emissions of these cement plants are among the lowest in the European Union. However, for specific parameters such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, they are within the normal framework foreseen by the European Union. Let us stress that the adoption of this bill would mean the closure of this cement plant, thereby losing 350 quality jobs, and that material for our infrastructure projects should be imported from abroad, which would significantly undermine the cost of building public and private projects, right before the construction of the second track. Since we do not have incinerators at our disposal and the foreign market for material will be largely closed due to its specification, we find that actions towards the closure of the cement plant, which respects all existing national and European regulations, are extremely pointless. We would also like to point out that similar proposals undermine the stability of the business environment, which, of course, reduces the interest of investors in projects whose implementation is highly susceptible to possible legislative changes. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will always strive to find a compromise between economic priorities and environmental protection. In doing so, we will by no means allow human health to be part of the compromise. The unequal criteria for incineration and co-incineration units to which the applicant points out do not, in our firm belief, endanger the health of the population, but allow the co-incineration plants to operate at all. We consider their role in our waste treatment system important. On the other hand, we expect such companies to invest rapidly in technology solutions to protect the environment. On the basis of the above facts, we will oppose the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! It is the duty of all of us to strive that no part of the population is exposed to more pollution because it lives near an industrial plant. The inhabitants of Anhovega are clearly among those in Slovenia who have already paid an extremely high price for this. In the SAB, we also stepped into their dam after last year’s contamination of drinking water, when water came from their pipes mixed with industrial sewage. At that time, we, together with other opposition parties, demanded an urgent meeting of the Environment Committee, at which we called on the Government to tackle this issue more actively. Cementarna Salonit Anhovo plans to halve current emissions of nitrogen oxides by 2025. Even though we all want this to happen earlier, we must be aware of the frameworks and the fact that it is one thing to want, to be able to move into practice and another. For half a year for all adjustments to the technologies envisaged in the law, the time limit is unfortunately unfulfilled. Parallels to this problem are found when closing Velenje Coal. In line with the ambitious environmental reform set by the European Union, Slovenian energy will have to overcome many challenges. It is true that all stakeholders must do everything in their power to ensure that the planned phase-out of coal use occurs as soon as possible, but this is not so simple. The transition must take place fairly. The most challenges are to be expected in the social field, as Pregogovnik Velenje employs more than 2 000 people. Another important question is what will be the alternative. The transition will not be possible without suffering the lack of energy produced. We can understand the intolerance of the surrounding population and the ecological trends, but without the appropriate timeframes it will not work. We also face similar dilemmas in the installation of renewable energy sources. Windmills disturb birds and hydroelectric fish. We do not say that they must be neglected in any way, ignoring nature. Absolutely not! But if we want climate ambitious measures, we will have to weigh things and not priori oppose all solutions. It's the same with waste. The goals are ambitious. By 2030, a maximum of 5 per cent of municipal waste was to be disposed of at municipal landfills. The role of incineration and co-incineration is very important. Both enable more efficient waste management. It also saves 18 million tons of carbon dioxide into the air and saves almost 7 million tons of coal. We do not therefore challenge the harmfulness of releases, but it is not enough to offer only alleged solutions to the problem with proposals such as is present. An alternative should be offered to ensure that waste is used differently and efficiently in a specific case. There is no way to ignore the call of the EKO Anhovo and the Soča Valley received this week by the Members. The company calls for the support of the law and warns that the current environmental requirements are recorded and legal to the extent of pollutants and not to the degree of protection of the environment and human health. They expect solidarity and support from Members. Let me get this. In the SAB, we appreciate the efforts made by the proposers and the objectives they want to achieve. Further consideration of the law that we will support in the SAB will need to be further developed. We would like to get answers to the key question whether emissions of harmful emissions in cement plants change if part of the fuel that is now coke, coal or liquid fuel is replaced by processed waste. Because because of the nature of the technological process in cement plants where waste co-incineration is carried out, standards cannot be compared to incinerators everywhere. We therefore expect additions that will enable the actual implementation of the law in practice. The protection of the environment and public good is a high priority for citizens on the scale, as has been demonstrated by the plebiscite decision in Sunday's referendum. We must respect and transpose the will of people in a healthy environment into legislation that we will never oppose in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Ivan Hršak, who will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The opening of incineration or co-incineration plants is one of the most important infrastructure projects in each country, not because of electricity production or heating, but because of the fact that waste is being incinerated. In the area of waste management there are huge landfills, thank God, a thing of the past, thanks to new technologies. Incineration plants and co-incineration plants, in this case it is a cement plant that uses waste in combination with other energy sources, must achieve very high standards of environmental protection in its operation. If we simply get rid of the waste incinerator, we have a different story in co-incineration. In the story of the cement company Salonit Anhovo, this is exactly the case – the use of waste in combination with other basic energy for the production of clinker or cement. The proposer shall most often touch this particular establishment by means of a law. They are exposed to pollution and damage around the company as well as to the local population, despite the fact that measured measurement data by independent institutions and also Arsa show completely different data. The justification for the consequences suffered by the population due to the production of asbestos products in the past is extremely inappropriate. In Slovenia we have already banned the production of asbestos products that have proven to have harmful effects on human health, and as a result many people have become sick of asbestososis. The explanation of the bill's proponents is thus too focused on the consequences of the production of products more than 25 years ago. Today, Salonit Anho has a completely different story. Only the area of the factory does not appear to be problematic, much higher levels of emissions can be found in cities. The air pollution from benzene is mainly related to transport. Therefore, the findings of the studies carried out by Ars and other independent institutions, as well as those denied, are inappropriate. The provisions of the law are thus not scientifically supported and indicate a great lack of knowledge of environmental data and environmental issues. The drafter of the law should be involved in the preparation, at least it would be good, including with incineration and co-incineration plant operators. In this way a common path could be found, which would also be in harmony with European norms. Especially should we talk to people who are directly attached to these establishments and who live here every day. The tightening or lowering of the emission limit could ultimately result in the closure of the Salonit Anhovo cement plant. As a result, this could lead to the loss of more than 100 jobs in the factory itself and also of those employees in the companies cooperating with the company. It is true that environmental protection and the health of the population are the most important, but we must also take into account the people who live and work with this establishment. The installation depends on the strategic location of the raw material necessary for the production of clinker and resulting cement. The material used for the production of the final product must be of quality and only with the use of high technology should it achieve the prescribed environmental standards. The fact is that the use and need for cement products is increasing. If cement production were to decrease, even stopped completely in Thessaloniki, this means that in Slovenia it would no longer have its own cement plant, the country would be forced to import cement from outside the EU, and the production standards themselves are significantly lower, significantly lower, poorer quality of cement, and the environmental impact of pollution is much higher. Increased levels of pollution are also dependent on other factors at this site. The location of the Sočo Canal itself is geographically located in an area where, due to the agricultural industries in Italy and on the other hand, our Gorica Mountains are also potentially polluted air stops here and causes additional damage. We cannot ignore the modern method of farming, which also uses starch in its larger crop race. All of this adds to the pollution of our waters and air. The Desus Group visited the Sochi Canal some time ago. Through discussions with various representatives of the congregation, we could see that the real picture is completely different than we could have read in most of the media. People are very attached to the plant, because it represents a source of income, and only Salonit Anhovo invests very much in development and cleaner production and also in the local community itself because of its presence. In this place it is worth commending the Mayor of Kanala ob Sočo and her municipal council, who jointly build a better and better future for all inhabitants of the Municipality of Kanal ob Soča. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law on waste incineration and waste co-incineration facilities at first treatment. Applicants, the left-wing group, consider that incineration plants are subject to stricter standards, while co-incineration plants are treated for miles. At the same time, they claim that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia must ensure equal legal security for all residents and equal realization to the healthy living environment referred to in Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We must be aware that our country is small, geographically very diverse, where Salonit Anhovo cannot be responsible for everything. We have many other degraded areas, such as Celje, Velenje, Šostanja, Murski Sobota, Kidrič and elsewhere. In Krske we are exposed to radiation because it is close to a nuclear plant and the best Slovenian apples are growing. It seems wrong for us to say that in Slovenia the most affected are the total emissions of substances in the air at the cement plant in Anhove. It is also customary to talk about the fact that large amounts of incineration waste in cement plant have a negative impact on the health of the population. We agree that asbestos has been the cause of cancer in the mountainous region, which is no longer in use for 25 years. However, we must not put on the same denominator all incinerators and consider them as bad priorities, as newer types of incinerators can reduce environmental impacts. As far as the stench is concerned, it's like for example, everyone who burns on wood would be told not to smoke too much and everyone would rather warm up to the heat pumps. The bill is, at first glance, populism, likeable, but violates some of the fundamental principles that apply at EU level in relation to environmental law and co-incineration devices. In terms of understanding technologies, technical options, conditions and criteria in environmental allowances, it creates an unreasonable and disproportionately strict approach. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the solutions proposed do not follow the best available techniques, as well as measures that violate the principle of prevention and caution. When we compare Thessaloniki with other European cement plants, we find that it is more efficient between the environment and energy, as air quality is good. In the material, the data with which it is operated are very flat-rate, because they do not take into account the variety of devices by activity, technology, size and one pile of Salonit Anhovo as compared to Livarno Vuznica. Furthermore, the proposal unreasonablely foresees that the operator of the installation must coordinate the operation of the device within six months of the harmonisation of the environmental permit. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the latter is lifeless, impossible, because new technologies are needed to adapt but are not yet prescribed at EU level. The limit values for cement plants in Slovenia are 10 per cent below the maximum limit values for the circus, 90 per cent of which are the same as the maximum limit values. It also seems inappropriate to us that different criteria are being discriminated against and that the applicants do not know the matter to be regulated. Incineration of the incineration plant with co-incinerators is not based on some professional foundations, because cement plants that use waste as alternative fuels are not incinerators, but are carrying out a complex process of producing cement at very high temperatures, where there is no ash left. All those present here must be aware, as a legislative body, that restricting local production would lead to increased imports from countries not parties to the Kyoto Protocol. In addition, the use of fuel for long-term transport would result in additional and unnecessary emissions. Finally, let us mention the example of good practice, namely incinerators in the middle of Vienna, which are an excellent combination of waste, where nothing smells, energy and culture, and its specialty is a facade. Although the main activity is not waste, remote heating in the winter and cooling in the summer is about 60,000 of their households. Emissions of harmful substances in the environment are also at the very bottom of the limit values. Let us also mention that harmful substances from the filter cake are stored in Germany, and from ashes and slags they produce a special mixture used to build walls around various landfills. In short, a super innovative system, just not in our home, where we could have it in our green capital or Maribor. We are in favour of incinerators in the Slovenian National Party and we want them in our space as soon as possible, regardless of the general resistance of the local population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mr Luka Mesec, the proposer, first of all, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Yes, thank you very much. I'd like to answer a few things that have been heard in their positions and they don't. First of all, several coalition parliamentary groups, the last party of the Slovenian National Party, say that the limit values for incineration plants and co-incineration plants are already the same. That's obviously not true. If you look at our marriage, you'll see very clearly what we're changing. We change the permissible limit value for nitrogen oxides of NOx, which was previously set at 500 for co-incinerators and 200 for incinerators, of course for both we set to 200 milligrams per cubic metre. Then benzene. With what the secretary has mentioned, the abolition of the cement regulation will achieve that there will no longer be an exception, that the emissions of benzene in co-incineration plants can be ten times higher than in incinerators and benzene is very clear. See, Salonit Anhovo airs up to 40 percent of benzene in Slovenia. If we compare it to other industrial objects, you'll see it like this. The Talum emits 10 per cent of Livar Črnomelj 9, Livar Ivančna Gorica 9, Lafarge Cement 6, and then remains three, four per cent, while Salonit Anhovo, I repeat, 41 per cent, amount in kilograms 18 thousand 750. So we can understand what benzene is. Benzen is a very dangerous substance; it is a volatile organic compound; it is one of the most important dangerous things in the air; it is released when burning waste, such as plastics. Studies have shown that benzene exposure levels are not safe, that all benzene concentrations contribute to the risk of cancer, particularly leukaemia, and that the benzene mechanism is not yet fully explained, but that it is expected to play an important role in various DNA defects, including epigenetic changes, which means hereditary changes in the human genome. This is the kind of thing we are talking about, and in Salonit Anhovo it is broadcast 41% of all benzene in Slovenia. Then there's also discrimination about measurements. For example, for mercury and other hazardous substances, co-incineration plants are designed to measure and set limit values at half an hour — pardon, incinerators — where standards are stricter, measure and set limit values at half an hour, control limit values at half an hour, set daily incinerators — incinerators, pardon — they are set daily, meaning that co-incineration plants can emit hours and so on, even higher than if measurements were to be made, so that we can regulate them. In short, it is absolutely not true that standards and limit values for incinerators and co-incinerators are the same. They're not. For NOx, the release is two and a half times higher, for benzene 10 times higher, and for mercury and other hazardous substances, the difference in how and at what time intervals is controlled is essential. That's the first answer. Second, apparently, the government and Arso have not even agreed on the answer to why we have such an impact on the health of the local population and the environment in Anhove. The government is now somehow trying to relativize its influence in its opinion, trying to relativize the impact of the cement plant and saying, no, this is in fact more or less a consequence of the emissions from transport. Now there are two things to say about the traffic releases. First, if you count the trucks that drive from the cement plant up and down, you'll see that good traffic there might fall right off those trucks. Because if you want to burn 300 tons of waste a day, it's not a cough to be transported by trucks, and if you want to take the appropriate amount of clinker to Italy and the cement plant there, it's this semi-manufactured product that is now being made in the cement plant, even for that it's necessary to arrange truck transport and trucks emit significantly more than cars. That's the first thing. Now another, even if we are talking about the effects of transport, the impact of transport does not explain why benzene is so high in Anhove and the surrounding area. It is explained by the information I said earlier, the Salonit Anhovo cement plant imitates 40 per cent of industrial benzene in Slovenia and the cause is the incineration of plastics, petroleum coke, which by the way is one of the most dirty fuels, is a by-product of refinement of oil and cement in 40 per cent uses kerosene as its own fuel. In short, you can't even hang traffic. Third time. You're saying that more or less of these diseases that I listed fall into asbestos pollution. That's obviously not true again. Asbestos has been no longer produced there for several decades, mesotheliomas, lung cancers, pleural plaques, other cancers that appear abnormally in Anhove and around the area, but appear for the last 20 years. It is not just past pollution, it is pollution now, which is the end of the opinion not only of the Left and local initiatives, but of the 593 doctors who signed the statement a year and a half ago, and the very strong opinion of the three experts who took part in the meeting on chemical safety on the issue of the environmental and health impact of waste incineration organised by the Department of Clinical Toxicology at the University and Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. The Dodič Fikfak method, a doctor well known, said that the literature review showed that contamination of food and incineration of semi-tans poses an important risk for workers, for nearby and remote residents and that many incinerators, especially older ones, are associated with cancers, reproductive problems and other diseases. This is Dr. Dodič Fikfak's opinion. Dr. Miran Brvar of the Centre for Clinical Toxicology from UKC said that solid PM10 and PM2.5 particles, ultra fine particles, nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, hydrochloric and hydrochloric acid, dioxins and furans, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, heavy metals and radioactive isotopes are also leaking into the air, causing various diseases of the nerves, heart, blood vessels, lungs, fertility and foetus development. We can't say here, as it used to be, in one of the positions, yes, we have a Krška nuclear plant around it and the best Slovenian apples are growing. Look, the Krško nuclear power plant airs only pure water vapor. This is her release if we subtract radioactive waste, which then has to be stored somewhere safe, but the release of a nuclear device into the air in no way can you compare with what is emitted into the air by Salonit Anhovo with these chemical compounds that I have now numbered. Here is another thing to say: not only do these harmful compounds escape into the air, Salonit Anhovo is the second largest industrial emitter of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. To remind you, yesterday the European Union tightened its policy on industrial greenhouse gas emissions, which means that Salonit Anhovo will have to adapt in one way or another. That's why I'm here responding to your fourth statement that our marriage will destroy jobs. Please! The jobs there were destroyed by themselves — new owners, foreign owners. There were two thousand workers and workers working in Salonit at the best of times, if we can say so. Today, 350 employees are still employed; it is said that a thousand 650 jobs have disappeared. You say that now – this has been heard in the SMC’s position – that now that the second track is being built, this large infrastructure project, we will lose Slovenian cement. What does Salonite Anhova really do? They incinerate waste, which is a profitable activity, because waste is not the energy they should buy, but it is the energy for which they are essentially paid to take over these 100,000 tons of waste and burn them there. That's the first source of their profits. Another source of their profits is the exploitation of the Anhove mine, which is being processed into a semi-product of clinker and this clinker — not cement, clinker — then driven to a cement plant in Italy, where the final product is produced and we now import this cement from Italy. It is said that what they leave in Anhove is, on the one hand, the exploitation of a natural resource, on the other hand, pollution because they incinerate waste and petroleum coke, which I repeat is one of the most dirty fuels at all. This is a by-product of oil refining. And the last time you say you're going to do this systemically, here I can only agree with what the LMŠ said. I mean, this government hasn't done one thing systemically in the last year and a half. You do everything on a chorus and ad hoc, and you care whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or is in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. You don't care. You've had a year and a half for this thing. On 20 February 2020, we had local initiatives, doctors, professionals, we were all on the Infrastructure Committee and the Health Committee, where we adopted six very clear conclusions. And not too heavy. The Ministry had the task of setting up a working group and examining the possibilities for the resolution of the situation in Salonito Anhovo or in Anhove as an environment so that people there could enjoy the constitutionally guaranteed right to a healthy living environment. In a year and a half, nothing happened. I asked Minister Visiak twice, what is being done on this, and I got more or less in a cellophane reply that this problem that I am addressing here is not at all; that everything is okay. That's why we went with a change of law, because we don't see another option anymore, because the ministry just doesn't do anything. So you've had a year and a half for a systemic solution, if you don't think it's a systemic solution, even more so, today we're in the first reading of this bill or this law, and if we go to another reading, you'll have the opportunity to make corrections that will seem more systematic to you than the arrangements we're proposing. However, I do not think that there is any more systemic regulation than simply equating the standards of incineration plants and co-incineration plants, but that the same rules should apply in Celje and Anhove. But how would it feel if Celje and Anhove were subject to different traffic regulations or if, I don't know, they were given a higher penalty for stealing in Celje than for stealing or killing in Anhove. This is also the end of the question of constitutional order, whether we are all equal before the law, given that we are talking about an environment where hundreds of people are suffering from deadly diseases, and you are wearing coats and pretending that there is no problem. I think we can talk very directly about direct discrimination, which is deadly for people living in the valley of Central Soca, and this needs to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The first one gets the word, Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I think our position, read by fellow Reich, was very clear. Now, good intentions are one; one is desire, and the other is reality. I listened very closely to my fellow moon, and everything he said was basically the truth. I'm not questioning what it is. But these truths, which exist all over Europe, are the same. Now, whatever we have to change this law here in Slovenia, it would be discriminatory to what Europe has. We tell you that we will essentially agree that the marriage will go into a further phase, everything that is necessary, but we will also make some amendments on this, we will immediately say, because otherwise we will not agree. The equation of these incinerators and co-incinerators is groundless. What you demand in marriage is also unrealistic and unfair. At this point, you are allowed to have emissions – let me make it simpler – that you have more emissions from co-incineration than from incinerators. But it's not just Slovenia, it's in all of Europe. So it is necessary to change the rules of the game at European level, if you say so. What's a release and what's not a release, there are several studies here. I know Salonit Anho's is monitoring this thing all the time. I also know the results that the air is fine and these are the neutral external institutions that control and inspect this air. I know that the desire of some of them who run these eco circles, if I don't know everything in Anhovem, also the lady who was invited at the time, was with us, about water and all these things, and I agree with everything. But we can't do a cross all of a sudden over everything. What damage we have done to the Rippers, instead of diverting them to some new modernisation, industrialization in a different way! Luka, there were really thousands and so many workers, now there are 300 and so many, but there are fewer workers, because it has been industrialized because different business processes have been modernised, industrial processes have been modernised. We're looking for the 4.0 industry, where you don't want less jobs, but there's going to be higher, better, better paid, all of that. I understand that. But there are also some changes made here. Let me be clear, I agree with the proposal to start looking at it in a different way. But I can't agree that you're demanding this in your marriage in six months. Now I will quote Tomaž Vuk because I know him – you probably don't, forgive me if I tell you this – but I know him, the working man, the worker who developed everything about him, and gave the job to half of Soča. We have to watch this, too. We can't go into closing Anho's down now. Yeah, it's best if we close everything then in Slovenia. We shut down biogas because it stinks, we don't know what it is, because it's wrong. Let's shut it down! And we will live — from what? What are we gonna live on? You surprised me earlier when you said you were against electric vehicle subsidies. Well, well, well, well, well. But I thought it was the interest of all of us here to electrify as soon as possible. We're talking about the same thing, you know, that's why I'm talking about it. And I will quote Tomaž Vuk because I think it is right, “This exacerbation of conditions is not meaningful, because in the only Slovenian cement plant we are already on the way to the introduction of the latest technology of the next generation, which in addition to reducing carbon footprint, will also mean reducing emission parameters. [[…]] The real time frame for introducing the first step of the update depends mainly on the speed of obtaining the necessary permits,” here is the problem, we have to look at why this problem is – “if we already had the necessary permits today, we could implement the first set of updates within two years”. [[…]] [[…]] And you're asking the marriage within six months to get this over with. That's what I'm saying, in a lot of things, you're right, I'll give you right, 100%, but you have to be realistic, what kind of times and you have to ask for certain things. It's all about people. People like to hear, ecology, shut down Anhovo, settle everything, plant potatoes, and I don't know what to do there. That's very nice to hear, but that's not how it works. It's not working. There are certain priorities and there is little need to be careful about what is presented as law. Because then this marriage comes in a different way, wrong. But it's right, I agree again, Luka, my friend, I agree with you 100%. And you are always looking forward to doing this within two months, which is what needs to be done in six years – we know what I was going to say by why we are at this stage today. But this is where you have to be careful. We can't ask them to cancel everything, I think it's required to go down to the same level, to match the incinerators with the incinerators. Why, how, in what way? Under which Europe does not give this. [[…]] The proposal for a law is in total contradiction with the legal regime that regulates the scope of co-incineration facilities at EU level as well as the fundamental requirements of EU law and violates the right to equality before the law. So we're doing something here again against, we'd like to make one law that's illegal again. It's a different wish, so I'm saying it's a good wish. I repeat, we will vote in favour of this, now in the first phase. We will, but we will also make amendments, and if the amendments are not adopted in the way we think they should be, for one process, honest, changes in technology within Salonita Anhovo, we will not agree. Because, as you know, they are preparing a 40 million-dollar investment cycle, which they would have already reduced by 15 percent at this stage. That's what they say. It's good will, but they need to be cut. That's the point. But we can't afford that. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposer, Mr Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Yes, thank you very much. I have previously forgotten one important thing to say, and this is that the European Directive, which has been transposed into our legal order, allows for stricter standards by this regulation, which we are essentially interfering with the law. The situation is this: Slovenia has transposed this Directive and has applied the minimum permissible minimum standards, the most relaxed standards laid down by this Directive. Moreover, for a transitional period, it is likely, in agreement with the cement plant, to allow even higher levels of emissions for cement plants than laid down in the Directive. And this is where we've been for 20 years. They broadcast according to the most loose standards Europe allows. In Celje, 30,000 tons of waste were burned, in Anhovo 100,000 tons of waste, by Anhovo’s request of Arso for a further 25 % increase in permitted release, says 125 000 tonnes to burn four times as much as they burn in Celje, and no one has objected to it for 20 years. There were some local initiatives, but they were a voice screaming in the desert, no one heard them, no one responded to them, and so on. Things have only started to change since we started talking about this at national level in politics. Now they themselves say that things will be settled by 2025, but, as it is said, in 2025, how many early deaths will happen, how many people will continue to be poisoned in one way or another with these emissions that eventually land in the ground, in the water, in the salad, in the apples, if you want, around there. I ask you whose side you stand on: on the side of the polluter or on the side of the surrounding population, who has been calling desperately for more than 20 years, let someone help you to listen. That's why this law happened. Because obviously we have the perfect smoothness of the polluter and the political decision makers at both local and national levels. Well, does anyone believe that it is a coincidence that in one year and a half, despite countless calls from the opposition, doctors, locals, in that working group that the Ministry of Environment and Space should have established, nothing has happened at all? Nothing happened because someone was mean about nothing happening, so nothing happened. Because the pressure from the polluter has been this all the time, and that is why we are not going to give up today. We will stop when things are settled for the inhabitants there. Once again, you're saying that it's pointless for incinerators and co-incinerators to have the same standards. Look, it's the same nonsense that you're defending, as if I pulled another analogy to traffic regulations. There may be 200 milligrams per cubic metre in Celje, 500 milligrams per cubic metre, these same nitrogen oxides are said to be 2.5 times higher in Anhovem. This is about the same as the rule in Celje that you can drive 50 kilometers an hour through the village and 125 kilometers an hour in Anhovem. That's the difference we're talking about! And then ask yourself why there would be so many dead children on the roads in Anhovem. Yeah, probably because someone there can drive 125 an hour through the village. And lastly: about jobs, no one here is talking about closing, no one is talking about closing. However, I would like to point out that alone with a business model such as the one they have in administration, they pay 19 000 euros per year for a concession for the exploitation of mineral resources in Anhovem, and they dig up some 10 000 tonnes of this mine, and they import some semi-product from Slovenia. And not because of automation, because of the colonial approach to this place, they have so much reduced jobs. What needs to be taken care of now, at least so that this activity carried out there will not literally kill the surrounding population.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Rudi Medved, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. When it puts the debate on environmental problems related to industry, we are very quickly on those slippery soils with threats, whether you leave us alone or we close. Although we have not heard this from Salonite Anhovo, we have heard this threat several times in this Chamber today: let us leave it all together, without it being possible, we will be systematic, and who knows what else, Europe does not allow. It's not true he won't allow it. That's not true! It's a complete lie, a lie. There's no ban, no equivalent of incinerator and co-incinerator emissions anywhere. But of course, it's very appropriate to threaten: you'll be in jobs, they'll be closed. You know, I come from Zasavje, where we listened to this half-second decade day by day, day by day. The situation in Anhove or then in Zasavje is not entirely comparable, especially on this legal path, or it is quite parallel. But for 15 years, we've been listening: Leave or we'll close. And then a colleague here talks about the damage we've done to the Rippers. No, we didn't do any damage to the Rippers. He should have asked himself what damage Lafarge did to Zasav. What damage did Lafarge do to Zasavje because he preferred to argue with the Sasavcans for 15 years rather than to adjust the technological process itself to some normal framework and to co-incinerate the waste. And finally, you know, it wasn't Lafarg's policy to prevent further pollution, no, it wasn't politics. The Court, in the end, stopped the whole case and, above all, people woke up in Zasavje, as they did here in the lower Soča valley, and no one actually wants to hear them. No one wants to hear them, we'd rather threaten to shut down the factory than all find solutions together to these standards are some normal standards for public health, and technological processes adapt. These ovens are old, you know they're old, they're not designed to co-incinerate waste, and don't use them to compare that Vienna incinerator. I've been listening to this for 20 years. Now it's probably out of date, too, but I believe the Austrians have updated the technological process. And it is not true that anyone who demands, nor at that time did we ask Lafarg or Salonite Anhovo to shut down or stop production today. Let him hear the call of the people of this area and the profession. We have also listened to Zasavje all the time that public health in Zasavje is the result of some past times, even though the medical profession has claimed otherwise over and over again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dejan Židan, prepare Mr. Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government, all hailed! Although we are talking about incineration and co-incineration today, we are really talking about whether we currently have an environment minister or the Ministry of Environment in Slovenia, whether we have a dual ministry of construction, energy or whatever. Now I'm going to take a few minutes, which will probably be boring for you, because I'm going to show you in the case of sent questions and answers how everything is done so nothing is done. Look, I'm going to read the whole question, and it's in writing, and it's a short one that I set up last November with the Ministry of Environment and Space. Somewhere like this: "Dear Minister, we are aware that we are primarily responsible for ourselves to deal with the issue of waste. I also believe that there is a broader consensus that the most important action in waste management is to reduce their production, then recycling, and then energy treatment and disposal will come later. There has been a debate in Slovenia on incineration and co-incineration of waste for many years. There are positive cases from abroad, sometimes even some Slovenian delegation is going to Vienna, where they have an incinerator inside the city and the debate itself has not brought unity. The lack of confidence between incineration or co-incineration of waste, expertise, NGOs and citizens and citizens is only increasing. Currently, there is a lack of a social consensus in Slovenia on this issue. There are also allegations that by transporting waste into incineration abroad we finance foreign owners of incineration plants and foreign countries, and, on the other hand, the system for controlling harmful releases in Slovenia is being questioned" – in addition, I asked the minister about this additional question because he claims that, such as it is cool" – and the specificities of the standards, i.e. the maximum permitted emissions of air in Slovenia, which would be less stringent than abroad, and the incomprehensible duality of the criteria in the event of incineration or co-incineration of waste." On this basis, I have asked the competent minister three questions. First: “I ask for comparison of emission standards for incineration of waste between Slovenia, Austria and Germany.” Second, it is also a simple question: “Comparation of emission emission standards for waste co-incineration between Slovenia, Austria and Germany.” As the third minister, do you advocate the current state of play when emission standards for co-incineration of certain substances are lower than those for incineration of waste? I received an answer, which I later thanked the Minister, where he taught me that there is a European directive that has been transposed into the Slovenian regulation, and that there are also conclusions on best available techniques since November 2019 – and then see the miracle also writes: “We do not have data at the Ministry on the comparison of domestic standards with regulations in Austria and Germany.” and they drive Slovenians and Slovenians to convince them how things work and at the same time say they do not have data. Now, why is this a dangerous situation? I have a freaking experience where we have to look for information ourselves by contacting our brotherly parties abroad, including with the help of non-governmental organisations. And then when we get them, then the ministries deny that it's the right information. Of course, the easiest thing is for the state to make a comparison. No! No! We have no comparison with Austria and Germany! Yeah, then how do you even work? Of course, I didn't want to stay at this point and I kept going. I sent a new question, this time two ministers responsible for health – at the final stage we are talking in particular about how to protect human health and the environment – and then also about the environment. That was the question. First: "Have you already made a decision to compare emission standards for combustion and co-incineration with other countries and what are the deadlines?" Second, to shorten it, “What is more important to you: the protection of human health and the protection of the environment or the economy? Will you keep talking about current technological capabilities? What are those limits that one thing is harmful or no longer harmful?” And thirdly: “Do you think that in degraded areas where already contaminated areas you are more cautious?” I received answers from both ministries, where the Environment Ministry once again taught me that it had commissioned a study in April 2020, and look at it, not the comparison of standards, but the implementation of monitoring. You know, it's not nearly the same. Then I'll find out what else. – that there has been a working group since May 2020, which is great, and then that they intend to do nothing. In fact, they gave themselves a deadline to work six months after the outbreak ended. You know when the epidemic will end, when the epidemic will end, and the new one will announce itself. So they set a deadline for the next government. That's what it says. And after they talk about these degraded areas, they honestly write that individual programs already exist, but that we also need to talk about reasonably high costs. But I was delighted by the Minister of Health's response. First, because they even allowed him to get involved in this problem, although when we talk about these harmful releases, we speak first of all about human health. Yeah, but who's gonna talk about people's health if not the health department?Oh, my God! And this time it's on. The Minister of Health writes, they set up a working group. The first time she met, she had made two subgroups and the second would address the link between incineration emissions and co-incineration to the state of the environment from a health point of view. They shall also indicate which experts have been involved and that these experts support emission standards as stringent as possible. The answer was great, so I thanked him. But I also asked for a supplement because I wanted to know who these experts were — and he answered me — and thank you for that — and how to work in the already degraded areas. In response, I again get the assurance that for strict standards, stricter standards and something new, new and positive news, the official body first spoke about the synergies of substances. Why is this new? Because when contaminants are observed, even in Europe, they are always observed individually – in all areas this is true. Here's the first time the competent minister says I'm interested in synergistic effects. That's a good call. And then the darkness. From here on out – what do you think happened? How many times have the competent commissions met? What did they find out at that time? Let me do it again. The waste we make ourselves is our responsibility to take care of these wastes ourselves. It's impossible to think that we can drive them elsewhere, that would be very selfish. Incineration and co-incineration are also appropriate methodologies. This is the first starting point. Second base. I understand that it is right for all of us to understand that when certain standards are set, of course, they are first glanced at: not at what technological devices can do, but at what standard is there that does not endanger human health and does not endanger the environment. From here on out, the first misunderstanding is already present. How can the standard for chimney A be different from the standard for chimney B if our primary objective is to protect human health and the environment? Then it's totally impossible. If it is not important for human health, if it is not important to protect the environment, then I understand that there are different standards because it looks at technological capabilities and economic societies and I do not know what else. But once again, the triage priority needs to be clear here. The first question that is most important is: What is it that guarantees human health? The next matter, which is also extremely important – what the Minister has mentioned – is news: we do not know the synergy of the various toxic substances. Therefore, caution is needed. Then the position in which Prof. Dr. Method Dodič Fikfak speaks very clearly and loudly but is not heard. We already have degraded areas in Slovenia. You don't have to be a top science expert to figure out that once you have degraded areas, you need to be more careful. This is also not to be discussed. In general, it would be good if the topic we are discussing today were regulated by a regulation, as in most other countries. However, the problem is that the opposition cannot simply make a proposal for a regulation. You all understand that. And even when the legislature and the others speak, they will say, yes, the regulation, the regulation. Yeah, yeah, but what do you do if the rulings don't want to do anything and the opposition doesn't have the right to make a proposal for a regulation? This, of course, is how I support us to take this law to a different treatment. I also support the medical profession getting a place on such issues, but not only to act in the same way as in the covid-19 epidemic. Yeah, we have an expert group, but you have to have that attitude. Then we better have nothing! But I still believe our experts have a spine, they have knowledge, and now I'm waiting for their answers. Well, thank you for listening to me for 12 minutes and 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following debater is Mr Boštjan Koražija, preparing Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. The main guide of all these policies, which we are going to or are also discussing in the National Assembly, should be the future of providing green jobs, and in general, when we are talking about these degraded areas – what Mr Židan has already said before – it is in these areas that green jobs should be made possible, or in our case also in this case in the draft law, to reduce emissions to the extent that makes it possible to live healthy lives or also these green jobs. But I'm going to illustrate in a plastic way that you'll understand a little bit more in front of the viewers, or in front of the screens, what is the problem with this legislation, which is currently in Slovenia, the difference between incinerator legislation and co-incineration plants or those plants that carry out these co-incinerations. The only real waste incinerator in Slovenia is Toplarna Celje. In Toplar, Celje burns or destroys 36 thousand and 191 tons of natural gas — I apologize. In fact, they incinerate or incinerate much less waste than they destroy and co-incinerate in this cement plant or co-incineration plant, Anhovo. Here is the biggest problem; the differences in these quantities are also up to 4 times as likely as co-incineration, and in these cases, in the co-incineration plant in Anhovem up to 4 times as much waste is burned or destroyed as in the incineration plant in Toplar in Celje. There is already this discreet woman, who can, in fact, influence or already affect the area itself, which is then contaminated or demolished — in this case, when we speak of Anhove. Regrettably, while there is a incinerator in Celje, there are other problems in Celje that are affecting the environment and well - being of all those living in or around the congregation. In Toplarna Celje, the co-incineration actually produces up to three kilograms of lead, chromium, copper and other metals, while in Salonito Anhovo, it is 68 kilograms. Then we talk about sulphur dioxide – 363 kilograms in Toplarna Celje. Do you know how many in Salonite Anhove? 8,000 pounds! Now just imagine this discrepanic woman in the amount of sulphur dioxide. Speaking of ammonia: Toplar Celje 192 kilograms. And do you know how many in Salonit Anhove? 41,000 pounds! It is already because of what I have read to you that these basic data make it necessary to provide and amend legislation. This is not only what the European Union or the European Commission is telling us and that we should really direct and prepare these things to make it possible for these green jobs, which you like to talk about or like to talk about, to be very serious about these preparations or how to get to these green jobs. The fact is that if any people look at a variety of things – in this case, when it comes to preserving the nature or the quality of human life alone, or even then the quality of the environment and the life of animals in that environment, when we are talking about biodiversity, in fact when we are talking, in the case of Salonita Anhovo, and also when we are talking about Celje in general – it is imperative that we start preparing legislation or plans to solve these degraded areas in part, because these areas are essentially wounded and even dead. Whoever does not understand this does not really understand the essence of man or the essence of this policy that we are going here in the National Assembly. Basically, we need to understand, and this is the fact that climate change is happening because of the things I read to you earlier, because of the emissions that are going into the environment, it is due to the increased emissions that are then happening and going into the air. Here it is particularly important to point out that not only into the air, into the water, into the earth, and in fact then make a conglomerate of all these, some enchanted circle of poisoning, destruction of the environment. In Slovenia we have a serious problem with this and it is the last moment, not only do we start to do this or we start to take a primary approach to this and start solving these problems, which we have hugely across the country with these degraded areas and with a health picture of all the population and population in those areas. And, more importantly, with regard to the provision of these jobs, workers working in these environments are also, in fact, at least five to ten times more at risk than in some other establishments or factories. So once again I ask everyone here in the National Assembly to start thinking through the prism, what if you were in such a situation that such pollution would happen in such an environment as you would like. Residents and residents of the Kanal municipality of Soča by referendum – those who do not know – have already voted against co-incinerators in the cement plant. Thus, it is also time to start respecting the will of people and things as they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next one is Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, Mr. Sonibo Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So nice of him to say that I could be a little shorter. What do we really need? We need the synergies of responsible policy, which I hope in the next government will be co-formed by Social Democrats and Levic, including in dialogue with the liberal work of Slovenian parties on the art possible, if I may say so. Look, the fact that we have some quality of life, the fact that we have had some industrial development in the past decades, has also left some consequences for some local, regional environment that my colleagues have listed before me. Somehow our duty not to say debt is to rehabilitate these environments. If the Slovenian policy of independent improvizers, if I paraphrased Gregor Golobic, had more intelligence and responsibility, these matters would have been thought when this democracy was very young. In short, at the beginning of the 1990s we should think about reindustrialisation, based on the hidden knowledge that this particular local and regional environment has, as well as deindustrialisation and also in privatisation processes, actually retain, I would say, 25 per cent plus one share of ownership of the local environment, from which real detoxification would then be financed, if I put it that way. When I listen to these stories of the cement shop, up, down, I can't do anything, even if my father-in-law wasn't a forestry engineer, but we're losing so much wood in our guests, we're taking him to Austria, some mace even in Madeira to make musical instruments. We'll be what? They cemented a lot, didn't they? This is also some thought that might be needed. Beyond what has been said, there is not really enough thought about how to create less garbage. There is almost no reflection, except in some serious part of industry, that some waste in some work process becomes a source raw material in another product. These are, in fact, some of the reflections ahead of us. And, of course, to remain polite in saying that I do not use any more powerful words, where pollution occurs, this needs to be remedied and, of course, waste must be properly processed. According to some basic logic of the geographical centrality of the places are essentially Ljubljana and Maribor are a location for incinerators. Pika, it's over. And to be financed — sometimes we talked about those bats — by using the best existing technology available. After all, we owe this to those who have created and have also created professional diseases, as well as to some generations from which we have, as it is called, a little newage, on a bowl of this beautiful chicken called Slovenia. This is basically this story, where politics must be delayed after 30 years. And this is actually this, of course, taking into account some professions and realizing that professions also have some interests. The introduction needs to be understood. In our country, a colleague of the Jews was very deeply involved in this, who also presented it in enough plastic. Yeah, and it's actually our duty to move forward somehow. It is not that we have some rather empty debates, both at the level, if you want, of the European Union as well as at national levels on sustainable transition and digital – I do not know, whatever. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Soniboy Knezak is the next discusser. Get Mrs. Natasa Sukić ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, in the introduction, as we had in the position of Social Democrats, we feel that we are taking the initiative to regulate these problems, although today we are talking more about Anhoves, the real basis for us to build on them. I would just like to point out that today there have been some comments both on the part of the government service and some good on the part of colleagues and colleagues. I therefore count that, on the basis of this encouragement, which is more than welcome, let me just remember that they were in last year — I think May — we will already have some conclusions about what will happen and nothing will be done in a good year. Thus, I see this bill as a single incentive to speed up developments and to do something about the promises that we have made to the people and residents of Anhoveg in the final stage. Of course, there is a possibility of complementing, given that the first reading is enough, and I am counting on it to make a good law. Today, several times in the debate, the stopover of Anhove is repeated. I don't think it's written anywhere, but no one's fighting to stop Anhove. I know what every job means. I am also pleased that the dialogue is taking place in Anhove, a real local community that is working, which is also aware of the importance of jobs on the one hand, and of the wishes and rights of the people of this valley after all they have experienced in recent decades, for one normal regulated environment. What I cannot buy from myself is in 2021, given technological developments, that it is impossible to limit the emission limits of NOx for incineration plants and co-incineration plants. It is up to us, dear colleagues and colleagues, to agree, as a colleague of the Jews plastically said, whether we will allow such emissions to roll from one chimney and from another. And that this cannot be arranged technologically today, I, my esteemed colleague, cannot buy it. I'm not buying. I was also among those who looked at the already mentioned incinerator in Vienna in the middle of the city. I mean, it's really worth three or four million a year, and I think they told us, but they took care of their waste in one way, which is what's waiting for us. The undertone of this bill is also where we now have problems. We see that environmental crime is happening, because we do not know for ourselves how to find the right solutions for our trash, that we are crazy, and that we are paying 160 per tonne for burning RDF waste, whose burning value is, I have already mentioned several times, also data is from Austrians, from 15 to about 22 giga joules; depending on how much plastic you have, what kind of mixture this is. At the thermal power plant in Šostanj we smoke with a giant lignite, which has a burning value of 9.2 giga jule. If I make it a little easier, we're literally crazy because we're paying someone, and we're giving them fuel, and we're paying him 160 euros a ton because we don't know how to make a deal at home. I am pleased, however, that the thinking here is also changing, that we have quite a few municipalities that have applied, and they are also interested in the location for the construction of this incinerator. Mainly, in the final phase, colleagues and colleagues, this is also business, a business that will not die in two years has a future. They're garbage, more and more, even though we're trying different ways. Plastics are getting bigger. These are the jobs that have been provided for the decade. In doing so, I stress that back there are technologies that allow one normal co-existence and that there are no additional environmental problems that are causing us. I appreciate Comrade Bandell, Mark, I like him, and I have to say that I share a lot of his opinions, but today, the calf, what we did to the Ripper, I don't buy. I also come from Zasavje, from Hrastnik, to Trbovlje I went to school, and every day I passed by there, and I would say that it was hard for the Rippers to say something bad about the cement shop itself and later Lafarge. It was a company that made high profits, and it was also friendly to employees, wages were above average high, and we were not the last to know what had happened, but Rudy had already explained, the last time the court closed it down with a ruling. Nor did we care about 180 jobs – I think there were 180 in the final stage – but the consequences. I remembered passing the cement shop every day driving to school. The forest at the cement plant, this is one big hill and at the top of this hill is also the environmentalist Macerl at home and I fully understand him. He was literally at home with Lafarg's chimney, he had a farm upstairs. And I know what he's put through, so I also understand him in his fight and everything that's been going on about it. There were no trees, it was cement, cemented trees. We had black snow in the winter. I've said it a few times. Analyses that have been made in the tummy gardens of Zasavje — conditionally edible vegetables, deer — I don’t know what else the amount of lead is. So the SMC’s view is that there are no releases – then they should go down to the prevention, on vacation to Anhovo, if everything is fine here. They put pressure on me to do that unless you have someone else to at least think about what you're saying. In short, they're garbage, and they're gonna be our problem. I think if we're smart, we'll sort this out. I am also pleased by the plans in Anhove and, above all, by the fact that this dialogue is taking place. I hope they find a common agreement, one co-existence. Finally, I agree with Mark here, but there is something to live on, so sometimes I am a little allergic myself, that in this Slovenia nothing can be done from the millions of times mentioned wind power plants until I don't know what kind of protected mosquitoes we always find. [[…]] That's how I think we're gonna have to find a compromise there. I understand at all; if you are a young representative of environmental organisations and you are coming to our meeting, and you are sitting at a meeting where you are against all the new sources of energy, but at the same time you have two mobile phones on your desk so that I will not say that I should be a little curious about how batteries are obtained for these phones and how to use children's work. [[…]] In short, let me finish. We will have to find one compromise and I think this is the basis for this law, which the colleagues from the Left have tabled today, a suitable basis for us to take a step, of course, also with improvements, which are, of course, possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Natasa Sukić, get ready for mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. For a while, I am listening to this debate, and I must say that it is quite surprising to the person, how many of the hair-dressing arguments you have cited today that you do not intend to support or to continue this debate, let alone our proposal for a law. For example, one of these was: Yes, waste should be disposed of. Of course, co-incineration and incineration are important. Of course they are, but when you import mainly Italian and Austrian wastes – not our waste – but you import them from Italy and Austria to co-incinerate them directly into the respiratory system of the local population, which is then fatally ill for severe cancers, forgive me, but this is a slightly different story. We are talking in fact about the health risks of our people who live specifically in Anhove. Now I know that this has already been mentioned today, but it will obviously be necessary to repeat the actual data in order to get at least a little bit, and I hope that the Ministry of the Environment will finally hear me, because you are the one, forgive me, we expect you to protect the environment and protect people's health. The constitutional right of people to do that, but you're not, excuse me, anything to see since you came into power. See, while in Anhove in 2018, almost a million kilograms of carbon monoxide, exactly 993 thousand 520, was released into the air in a cell incinerator amounted to a thousand 261 kilograms — in the incinerator, which has to measure the limit value every half hour, in the co-incinerator, where they measure once a day, and see how much it went into the air. For organic compounds expressed as total organic carbon, the ratio is 103 thousand 384 kilograms in Anhove, to 104 kilograms in Celje. Nitrogen oxides, Salonite has been released into the air – beware – a million 491 thousand kilograms, a cell incinerator of only 25 thousand 604 kilograms. But you see these differences? And these differences are astronomical! Don't make me go any further. It went into the air and, of course, into the lungs of employees, because when you fight so much for jobs, the people working there are extremely exposed to health risks, i.e. in the lungs of employees and residents there 2 000 610 kilograms of benzene, 60 kilograms of mercury and its compounds, 56 kilograms of copper and its compounds, and 10 kilograms of lead and its compounds went to Anhove. What about Cel? There were no such contaminants. Do we see the difference? And this is in Celje, where they have to measure limit values every half hour according to the rules, and they don't have to do it in Anhovem. And then, of course, at the end of the day, some things, the average limit values of overstepping, of course, can be hidden in this average, because these suns come in between, but these suns are deadly. Not to mention Lafarga, for example, what was the story about Lafarg? Salonite, for example, let go into the air -- we're talking about benzene, benzene is a disaster -- and he blew up 18 thousand 750 kilograms, 41 percent of all benzene discharges, that's what Luke said before, Lafarge 6 percent, 2 thousand 791 kilograms, and we know what the story was about Lafarg. Let me give you an opinion. Mirjam Bizjak Velinja, a specialist in general medicine, who is the chair of the Mountain Regional Committee of the Medical Chamber, will quote what she says, quote: “While WHO World Health Organisation benzene is one of the carcinogen compounds of the first dangerous group, where there is no safe exposure limit, Slovenian environmental legislation has classified benzene as a third dangerous group in the Regulation on Emissions of Substances to Air from Real Estate Sources of Pollution”. I'm curious, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, why so. And you're aware of that. What are you gonna do? Why are you working against the WHO recommendations? And it goes on, this doctor, "in 2018, it was in Anhove" – right, what I was saying earlier – "2 thousand 609 kilograms of benzene emissions into the air, which represents 40 percent of all industrial emissions of benzene into the air if" – and this is now important – "the benzene should be placed in the first dangerous group, which it should be, at the annual level, the allowed emissions of benzene would be zero more and no less than one kilogram". Do you realize what that means? Two thousand and a half pounds [609 kg] instead of one kilogram, which should in fact be at the global level of the World Health Organization. So that's 2 thousand 600 times the allowed limit, and that's the benzene, which is extremely cancerous. And you're out here pretending to protect someone at all costs. Who says we should close the plant there? No, we should adapt, install appropriate cleaning filters and ensure that these catastrophic releases are not released and that people do not die. No one has ever spoken here about having to shut down Anhovo. Who's talking? This is what you say to those populists who want nothing to change, who only protect the interests of really those profiteers and you absolutely care nothing about human health. Your own people! Yesterday you told the exact opposite story here, that more pharmacies would mean more public health. Really? In Scandinavia, which has a comparable network of pharmacies as we do, they have an enviable level of public health, and in Greece, and in Bulgaria, where they have more pharmacies, they have a catastrophic image of public health. Because you think people will treat themselves by going to the pharmacy to buy without a prescription, and then they'll be healthier. What should the people of Anhovem be counting on this or what? In short, once again: incineration plants, such as Celje, must now provide the prescribed limit values every half hour and co-incineration plants only on average throughout the day. Do you think that's right? I see no reason why this would be right, at all, for a co-incineration plant which imports most waste from Italy and Austria to literally co-incinerate them into people's lungs. Therefore, Members and Members, I am very sorry, one of those hours of truth has come up again when you have to decide whether you will put the health of the inhabitants first and protect our environment, or simply put your head back and nod to the interests of the profiteering interests of the great environmental polluters. That's all this is about and nothing else! And let's get some clean wine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, he was followed by Matjaž Han. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a nice welcome to you on my behalf as well. For us in the SAB party, it is very important to have a healthy and clean environment and that is why we will always listen to people and advocate for their interests as well as health. That is also why we support the continued consideration of the law. However, we want the profession to be clearly invited in further procedures and to make its views known to all these requirements and the dilemmas we have heard here. I am a building engineer myself, and I know in fact certain procedures: procedures for obtaining consent, calls and executions themselves and only obtaining consensus may take one year. Here, I will say, with the request of the proposer of a certain conflict which are impossible; therefore, one requirement is impossible with matters in practice. Then the set of performers or broadcasters themselves may last half or one year and are therefore asked how to do so. I would like the Ministry to clearly define itself in the next stages to all these requirements, invite experts to tell the profession what is possible by what date in the timeline, and then to commit all those operators carrying out co-incineration to adapt their production processes. We must be aware that certain producers, instead of oil, coke, mix up waste instead of these fuels. According to current standards, they must ensure the same emissions as cement ones, for example. Now, whether these standards are sharp enough or not, this has to tell the profession whether they can be further improved, and the profession must also say so. That's basically what we expect for people's well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. There's been a change in order. And now I'm going to read some of the other people who are registered. First it will be Violeta Tomić, followed by Primož Siter, Gregor Perič, Željko Cigler and Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. My colleague, Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. When we talk about the story of the biogas plant in Montenegro, the cracking in Petišovci or now Salonite Anhovo, we always talk about the same story: whether the state places citizens and citizens first or puts the business of some people who go to dirty capital. Don't think anyone else will care for the well-being of the Slovenes and Slovenes, which is why we have the Ministry of Environment and Space, which should be doing this, but it doesn't. On the contrary! More and more people are feeling that we have two ministries for the economy or for concrete, as they like to call it. Allowing so much pollution within certain Slovenian regions is not justified, not morally, not otherwise, not environmentally or even economically, but you like to talk about economic reasons. Let me touch morals. Of course, here the profits go abroad, the owners are mainly foreigners, as I have already mentioned, who will not worry about the health of our population. And here remains a degraded environment, a ruined environment, and sick people. We had asbestos in Anhom's case, now we have so many cancers, and this all falls on our medical treasury. And what's the economic logic here if we let everything else go? A way of thinking is unacceptable for some who deny people the constitutional right to a healthy environment. I wonder you mentioned Lafarge earlier. Is it worth it? Is it worth these few jobs to watch black snow, that children think that snow must look like that? Is it worth enjoying toxic fruits and vegetables? Is it worth drinking polluted groundwater? And the question of what we're going to live on, you know, has thousands of answers. Questions about what we're going to die of, but they're very simple when you look at what you let into people's air and water. All the time this government is talking about, and in the Presidency, and now that we have the means to recover from the covid epidemic, about the green transition, about digitisation – none of this is practical! Because you're thinking in a completely wrong and outdated way. Salonit Anhovo is owned by Italians and Austrians, and from there they also drive a large majority of the wastes that are loaded here to our local population. The fact that profits go abroad, and everything dirty and degraded stays with us, it's terrible. We have already considered a tax exemption law. And here from 15 million profits per year Salonit Anhovo does not pay the profit tax. Where are we? This is worse than in Africa, which those poor blacks are exploiting for some of the interests of foreigners who come, and they beat them there and force them to work in impossible conditions. So the polluter pays principle is a principle that should be respected in every civilized society. This principle does not work for us, and the polluter serves for us. Domestic people pay: pay with their health, pay with their future, pay also financially, because ultimately they are a burden to themselves. And what we expect is casual monitoring. This is the least we can ask that this environmental crime, which is actually environmental crime, whether you like it or not, if you accept it or not, is environmental crime. And constant monitoring is more than necessary. Let me remind you here how exactly the same minister who runs the economy today forced this lex Magna to build a dirty industry on hundreds of hectares of first-class agricultural land and in the water protection area. At the time, in Levica, we strongly opposed this and again heard that we were against jobs. Construction in such areas is prohibited, but a special law has been made. Despite the fact that an industrial facility is abandoned, which is large enough – but not! A stranger can come, choose what he'll do, and how he'll do it. But here there is no one in this existing government, and here I really hope that the government will change as soon as possible, that people will come to power who will have a little more and more hearing for people and the environment, because this is unacceptable, that they will obey and that they will worship foreign capital, and that our people will be at risk for health and life. See, that's not the job of the people we should all be sitting in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Primoz Siter has the word, and Gregor Perič will get it after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Friends and colleagues, hello again! Today we have basically one embodiment or a translation of all the words that politics is full of in the field of environmental and climate issues, embodying in action. Here we have one measure by which we can all prove that we are all who have ever been involved in creating a programme of some political parties, that we have taken seriously, we take one measure that actually goes in the direction of maintaining health, preserving the environment, and is aimed at achieving climate standards to which we are also ultimately bound by international conventions, such as the Paris Agreement and so on. The law that we have on the table is something that regulates a problem that is environmental or, hopefully, here we have been alerted by environmental activists for years and one solution that, if adopted years ago, would have been pursued by activists, all of these mass civilian activations of people would not have to be equalized to the limit values for releases in co-incineration plants with incinerator discharges or vice versa and, of course, consistent and uniform monitoring at all addresses. Because the problem is that we legally have two types of pollutants, namely incinerators and co-incinerators – legally and in practice we have incinerators and incinerators with even greater scope. For the sake of some systemic regulation of this area, more than the need for this law to be adopted. Here, by the government's statement, when it says that the law interferes too much with something that has been systematically regulated, but I simply do not agree, this area is not regulated. Comrade Boštjan Koražija said earlier, imagine what would happen if this situation were in your place. I don't need to imagine, I come from the Bellies, I know what it's like to have an environmental, environmentally problematic and unregulated operation of one incinerator ferocity and exceed all limits of common sense, healthy functioning, health and the environment. I must say that this situation with Anhovi, who was somehow the initiator of this whole initiative to write this law, I look a little sentimental because I do not agree with my forerunners when they say that the situation also reminds us of the abdominal situation of the co-incineration plant. The situation is essentially a copy of what we have been looking at for many years, two decades, in Zasavje or in Trbovje: a degraded environment, a direct attack on the health of the population in this environment. We read what a terrible medical, public health situation is in the population of Anhove. See the statistics of Zasavje – copy paste! So the highest degree of cancer sickness in the respiratory system, the highest mortality rate and so on. There is another similarity, both in Salonite Anhovo and in the story of the Ripper Lafarg. This is that if this factory, once owned by the public, contributed to the social picture of the region in some environmentally-conscious times, the situation changed completely when the company came into private hands. Then began the enforcement of legislation, the pressure on politics, local and national, the pressure on Arso with various stories of job destruction and so on. Throughout this period, factories have been optimizing their work process, throwing workers on the road, environmental activists who have been alerting them to the problems that we are alerting them to here today with this law, and ultimately they have been guilty of a social bomb. That's how it's copy-paste. My message to activists in Anhove – we have already seen these things, this is nothing new and this thing can be bitten: look at the success of environmental activists in Zasavje over a company that – hand to heart, no matter how many times I heard in the hall – has contributed some plastic pial compensation to its former environmental devastation. In fact, there is no such company in Zasavje, at least not as much as you would like. As these current standards are outdated because they are unambitious in the light of environmental and climate responsibilities, they need to be amended. At least here we need to create policies that will be critical to the destruction of the environment and health for profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič has the word, and he'll be followed by Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greetings to all! The debate on the environment, as well as the closure of those plants that certainly have certain emissions and impacts on the area where they operate, is always not only grateful but also a necessary thing, and also with the development of technology this debate is never over. Today this is the situation, and in a year, two years and a decade, the development of technology must also be followed by regulatory frameworks. So I think that this debate, as it were said, is more than legitimate and in place. It opens a wider problem of waste in Slovenia, in the final phase the issue of waste incineration. We have dealt with this at the beginning of this mandate, and – then in the previous government – we have also done, at least certain Members and Members, those who are members of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, a specific inspection of the Danube waste incineration plant; more precisely, I think two. Vienna has four, all located in the urban part of the city, which also shows very clearly that technology allows for the installation of such facilities in the urban environment and there are also some synergies. Of course, there must also be some confidence in these establishments and in the technology that is being used. It's not built overnight. In a particular case that we are also dealing with today, I especially see a fundamental lack of trust that has not been shattered today or yesterday, but, in my opinion, that you will also be able to confirm it – long ago, when Salonit Anhovo was primarily involved in salonite as a raw material that we know is extremely dangerous. She was also extremely present in construction, especially in the previous country. This is starting to go away today. Although there, in Salonite Anhovo, these productions with salonite have been gone for quite some time, we still find many objects on that area and on many others, even in Ljubljana or elsewhere, where salonite still remains as building material on the roofs, in walls and elsewhere. The problem with saloonity as such, that is, these raw materials, can be activated at any time and then trigger a variety of diseases even decades after it was found in the human body. Thus are statistics such that we must read them on the basis of these facts. If we look at health or air quality in Slovenia and look at average PM10 concentrations of particles, we will find that the most exposed areas are, say, Zagorje and Ljubljana center in terms of pollution. The area in question, where this cement plant also works, is inadequately less exposed in this respect, indicating that the pollution factors are large, but they certainly occur in individual establishments close to major pollution. We've been talking about benzene before. Benzen is certainly not something we want — not in the air or in any other form in nature. But the fact is, if we look again at the statistics of the presence of these organic pollutants in the outer air, we will find that for this area where the cement plant or Salonite Anhovo works, the presence of benzene in the air is also found when the furnace itself does not work. So it's sort of a circumstance that probably says something. What does it mean exactly how to interpret it correctly, and I would probably rather have experts explain it myself. What seems important in dealing with such issues as this is that we provide in Slovenia a stable not only economically but also a normative environment. Likewise, those companies operating in areas where, due to their production process, they generate emissions such or different within certain legal frameworks know what awaits them today, what awaits them tomorrow, what awaits them in 5 years and what awaits them in 10 years. This is, for my understanding, a basic prerequisite for them to be able to act and act in some appropriate way and also to know whether any production is even meaningful and economically viable or not. And if they can assess some sense of market presence, they will also assess investment in or in the protection of the environment or that their production is such that these emissions are small. If this environment is stable, then I believe that these players in the market will also invest much more ambitiously in technologies that will be cleaner and more friendly to people. So I understand that Salonit Anho has these desires and these intentions to invest, in a few years, 3, 4 years, I think, 40 million, which is not small in terms of security or business. This is just some amount that says that this company wants to continue to operate in this environment in some synergy, including with the local environment, to be aware that it bears very much responsibility. I therefore understand that we have some responsibility, not only to this business entity, but to all other business entities which, as it is said, produce certain unwanted emissions, allow them to develop in some way. Because if we put on some hands that are unreasonable and short, that is, they will quickly find themselves in an unenviable situation. Here we must be aware that these are not changes in technology that can be made within a few weeks, but require first some studies, we need to find some technology on the market and then implement it. These are the amounts that are substantial and you simply have to have some good project to do this and at the same time that production can still run to maintain jobs and more. This is how I see the problem here, in this law mainly in this relatively short time frame, which is allowed or given to this company to change technology because one is combustion technology, the other is co-incineration technology. These two technologies are not comparable or different technological approaches, and there is a lot of need to be changed. And normally, because technology is different, the comparison by emissions is different. This, if I say very plastic, different emissions from a petrol engine or a diesel engine and replace it means that you have to replace the whole engine. It is not so easy to replace just a part of the exhaust that makes these emissions so much less. In this sense, it seems important to us that, above all, we listen to all those companies, that they are aware that they bear a very high responsibility to people living in an area and also to nature, and that they are allowed at all, if they show any intention to invest additional and significant resources in that their operation is so that they have as little impact on the environment as possible. However, if we give them some unreasonable and short deadlines, this is also a message not only to a particular company, but also to many others that our business and regulatory environment in Slovenia is unpredictable, which also means less ambitious investment in the safer functioning of such or another company. That is why I am not in favour of such a dictatorship in law, because I believe that the intention of the company, which has already been shown, will be to the contrary, so that it will not allow it to perform any rehabilitation in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposer, Luka Mesec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	In fact, I'd like to make a few last thoughts. The first thing that bothers me in the whole of this debate is that I think that Gregor Perič was in fact the only member of the coalition species who even took the floor in this debate. The government, representing the government, has been quiet for more than two hours, reflecting the reality of the people of Anhove and the valleys of Central Soča for decades. They, as I said earlier, are on the basis of the processing of asbestos and mass eruptions of mesotheliomas, plural plaques, asbestos, and so on are now suffering new pollution. Among other things, Salonit Anhovo now spends 41% of all benzene put into the atmosphere by the Slovenian industry. 41 percent will happen at this location. Benzen, as we have heard several times in the debate, is an extremely deadly substance that affects the development of a variety of cancers and so on. What I am trying to say is that the people of these places, united in various civil initiatives, have been alerting for more than 20 years to the problems and serious health and health problems they have and no one can hear them. They did not hear them, or wanted to hear them, or really local politicians, even nationalally, were overlooked in the media; in short, they were there, they were sick, they died, and they were the voice of the screaming in the desert. But the numbers were shocking. Of the 560 cases of asbestososis, 500 occurred in Anhove between 1998 and 2016. Plural plaques of a thousand 773 in the vicinity of Salonita Anhovo, elsewhere in Slovenia only 100 other cases in these years. Mesothelioma 128 cases, this is an extremely aggressive cancer tumor, 128 in the vicinity of Salonita Anhovo, only 40 other cases across Slovenia and so on. If someone closes his eyes to the serious situation in these places, let him look at the disease and see what petition 593 doctors warn us about, who said that literally all the alarms are burning there, that we need to act, but there is nothing to do with this action. We adopted six decisions a year and a half ago on the Committee on Health and on the Committee on Infrastructure, which imposed on the Ministry of the Environment and Space, to prepare an opportunity to equalise standards for incineration plants and co-incineration plants and to regulate the situation in Anhovem in general; a year and a half of this is nothing. As Dejan Židan had previously warned, which the ministry and the minister are responding to, it is that this working group, which, if I am not mistaken, has only met once, has done nothing. All they set themselves up is that within six months of the end of the epidemic, whenever they do, they'll do something. In short, everything is being pushed into the next term and hopes that it will be forgotten. And it will not be forgotten, because we know what the finger is in these places, we know how the water is in these places, we know what the air is in these places, and we know what health is like in these places. It won't be forgotten! People can't forget that. If you get chronically or even terminally ill, you can't forget that. I've been in Anhove several times in the last year when we've been dealing with this problem intensively, and I'll tell you that people there are directly panicking. They talk, write, draw, about genocide over them. There's talk of genocide! Of course, this may be a little too emotional a response to the situation, but you need to understand, I mean, when you see your family dying because of the unhealthy environment they live in, you're in trouble. When you get sick, you're in even more trouble. And here we're literally playing with human lives, and you're silent. Today, the entire coalition was silent, except for one Member. And he's ruling the same thing. That's what we've been doing for 20 years. On the other hand, we hear that the attempt to regulate this problem is now intended to destroy jobs. Here I have to say again, Salonit Anhovo sometimes hired two thousand people, now employed by another 350. It's not true that this happened because of automation, there have been several changes here. Maybe that's how I'll start. If you go there to Ljubljana to look at the old Rog factory, you'll see what capitalism used to look like. It was a factory bike, it had a wall around it, a courtyard inside it, and inside it, the owner built a villa in which he lived. He lived by the factory and he lived with his employees. What does capitalism look like today? Do you think any of the owners live in Anhove or in the area? Do you think anyone lives anywhere in the influential area of the exhausts that Salonite Anho is broadcasting? I don't think so! They are sunbathing somewhere, what do I know about the villa up on the Vrbska lake, or where the Austrian owners are, others who may be lying in Italy; in short, at a safe distance. And what are they doing in Anhove? I think we can call it colonialism. On the one hand, they exploit the natural resource, which is public good, for which they pay 19 000 euros a year for their excavation. You can imagine, all the mines they dig up there, the municipality and the state get 19 thousand euros a year of compensation. That's the concession contract. You can go check it out. On the other hand, we have heard that we will now have Slovenian cement. They don't make cement anymore. They only do the dirtiest part of the production here. They convert the raw material into clinker to convert it into clinker in 40 percent use as fuel for petrol coke, this is one of the most dirty fuels produced as a by-product of oil refining, and on the other hand they use 60 percent of the waste, more or less of the plastic and similar things that release benzene, nitrogen oxide, mercury and so on into the air that is then collected in the surrounding waters, and in the soil, in the air, in the lungs, in the kidneys of the population there and, of course, in the manner of poisoning. However, they kept, as stated in two thousand and 350 jobs. We followed a very similar story in Lafarg in the Rippers. There Primoz can tell you, too, I was a trebwellian Member when this story unraveled, how long it had been to talk about how many jobs we were going to lose, and they were practically reducing the number of employees from year to year. If I'm not mistaken, there were about 140 at the end. The health picture in the Rippers also tells us what it is. If I draw the line. I think the dilemma that we have before us today is very simple: whether we will listen to those who have been calling for help and getting sick for the past 20 years and allow them to finally start moving towards what the Slovenian Constitution is supposed to guarantee them, that is the right to a healthy living environment, or whether we will wear our cloaks and tell them that everything is okay there in Anhovem, we pretend that there is no problem, and leave this cement plant, especially their owners, to continue doing what they are doing. You know our position. I believe that it will be the same voice and attitude of the entire opposition, at least after what we have heard. But it saddens me that the government and the coalition aren't really ready to talk about it. I hope you change your mind before the vote. Like Natasha said before, it's time to pour ourselves some clean wine. I'd rather be careful with the wine because the water running from the taps in Anhove is not very edible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The panellists are no longer present. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] The Secretary of State, Dr. Metka Gorišek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	I don't think we'd have much to add on our part right now. We have stated our position, our concerns, which are both legal and technical, and somehow also because of one, in your opinion, the largest polluter in Slovenia, probably does not write a new law, which then plunges into non-systemic regulated legislation both incinerators and co-incineration plants, and in doing so, as has already been said, it does not take into account the many matters which are prescribed by the European Union. That is why we cannot support these issues at the Ministry of Environment and Space, or this is an intervention within the system framework itself, not only in the field of the environment, but in the area of all the regulations or legal frameworks that we are preparing at the Ministry of Environment and Space. In all areas, both in the environment, nature, water and space, we have roof laws and then individual matters, specific ones with specific requirements, parameters, restrictions and so on, we regulate regulations and other sub-laws. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer, Luka Moon? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Yeah.]] We'll start the application process. Yeah, let me just read it to the end. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer Luke Mesec and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. One reported, Željko Cigler. You have 5 minutes at your disposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear, distinguished representatives of the government! After what has happened now, you need to be deaf, unconscious, unfeeling, or actually reacting to the situation presented. In fact, look, the cost of living, the cost of treatment, the cost of environmental rehabilitation, the destruction of the middle Soča area, which is paid bloodyly and with torment in Desklas, Anhove, Kanal near Soča, strongly exceeds what they give jobs, wages and contributions to Anhove, cement plants as long as they exist. When these cement plants are long gone, there will be no profits, foreigners, owners do not live here, people living in this area will still pay for this damage. And here's the thing: it's necessary to ask whether Anho's pollution is aligned with the zero impact on life and the environment or whether his production has to stop. This is a sovereign decision that must be taken in this country without any incriminating regulation and networks and legal frameworks and so on. This is the transfer of the Ministry of Environment and Space! Before that, my colleague, Comrade Boštjan Koražija, made the whole situation very clear, as well as any other situation. See, Ministry representatives, an immediate identical analysis of co-incineration discharges in Anhove, such as an analysis of the potential effects of co-incineration at the Šostanj Termoelectric plant in Šostanja and Velenje, is necessary. We have experts and institutions in Slovenia who have done so and can do so. And I don't know why you don't order it! Then an equivalent decision or measure shall be taken to establish such effects as has been found at the Chestnut thermal power plant if hazardous waste and other waste are to be smoked, if such effects are to be detected in Anhovem, a co-incineration in Anhovem must be discontinued. I know that 60 percent of the fuel, as former comrade Luke said, is obtained from waste for the operation of the cement plant. Those wastes to which waste producers, suppliers of waste, pay Anhovem to burn them. And when the Lafarge cement plant in Zasavje was banned from burning waste, it simply found that it could no longer function because it was not viable and would no longer be able to generate profits through externalising its production costs to the environment and people's lives. And this must be done as it did in Velenj, or why people in Kanal near Sochi, Tesla, Anhovem are discriminated against. Why are they not guaranteed the right to life under Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Once again, Anhovo externalises an important part of its production costs, which is through the burning of waste and the destruction of the environment, especially on human health. The data they were talking about, Luke, when he said it in the case numbers! I mean, I don't know how you can say that you have to do this, it's production that brings us some profit, it's really smaller than life and the environment, but they have to have it because I don't know, the Ministry of Environment and Space – why? [[…]] In fact, there was no reply that the Secretary of State had previously given. This dangerous operation of the cement plant needs to be stopped. The fact is, once again, obviously without the co-incineration of cement waste, Anhovo cannot function, is not profitable and would have stopped immediately. Look, 'cause it's 20. 2. 2000 when they held a meeting of the Infrastructure and Health Committee, they did not find this to be of any consequence in the conclusions of the National Assembly, “the Committees estimate that, given the current situation in Anhovem, the increase in the co-incineration of hazardous waste and the modernisation of furnaces in the Salonit Anhovo cement plant is inappropriate.” [[…]] We have found that the situation is so now that action must be taken. Let's move! Let us adopt the law proposed by the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're moving to 39. At the beginning of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in Slovenian health in the years 2021 to 2031 under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivice requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Robert Cugle, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The needs of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for health services and the development of health care go with great steps towards the future and, if you want, to maintain the level of implementation of health activities and to ensure adequate health care, investment in modernisation, innovation, digitisation, follow-up of health care, and, if you want, to ensure the proper conditions for the functioning of institutions with the aim of providing services comparable to European health systems. The rise in life expectancy, the rise in chronic and neurological diseases is just a few reasons why the need for health services will increase. From 2000 to today, the number of services has increased by almost 40 per cent, so we can rightly expect that the number of all services at the hospital treatment, hospital treatment, primary level will increase between 2 and 3 per cent annually. This means that health care with existing capacities will not follow the needs of the Slovenian population. Despite the above fact, since 2009 when Slovenia started dealing with the economic crisis, investment funds for Slovenian health have been declining. Thus, between 2010 and 2020, only €396 million was invested in Slovenian health care. This means that a number of projects have not been approved and implemented. The Law on the Management of Financial Funds for Investment in Slovenian Health in the years 2021-2031 is defined in a comprehensive manner and takes into account the necessary investment needs to carry out health activities both at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of healthcare. As an important form, however, education is also essential and therefore ensures adequate education and, in particular, the number of human resources required in the future in the field of health. This takes into account both sustainable development and the needs related to achieving the age of the population. The law thus foresees that we will invest 1.9 billion in the following infrastructures over the next ten years: approximately 760 million in both university clinical centres, which are the heart of the functioning of our health system, 550 million euros for development and modernisation of general hospitals, nursing hospitals and nursing homes throughout Slovenia. The Special Hospitals Act provides a total of 214 million, for psychiatric hospitals of 50 million, for investments in maternity wards of 26 million, 33 million for three of our important institutions such as NIJZ, NLZOH and ZTM. The law additionally allocates another 50 million to co-finance infrastructure improvements in the primary area. In the light of the stated needs of primary health care, these resources will be further increased. Health care is driven by people who are employees, who are directing every day their powers towards the welfare of the Slovenian population. Without them, contributions to the development of an educational system are also necessary to ensure an adequate number of highly trained healthcare professionals and co-workers and all others working in the healthcare system. The law invests EUR 200 million in educational establishments, for a single master's degree in medicine and dental medicine, and for a related teaching and research activity and an additional 50 million for other health education institutions. Dear Members and Members! Slovenian people deserve European comparable, quality health care. They deserve to be treated in Slovenia in an orderly and appropriate room and deserve to be even more satisfied with Slovenian health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	In the LMŠ we constantly point out that there is no dispute over the investment of additional funds in the healthcare system, but we also need to be rational when investing in healthcare, and above all realistic. The additional funds to be invested and redeployed under the budget lines of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport mean that somewhere else these resources will have to be taken. This again creates a problem from the point of view of the country's indebtedness, which is already so record, as a result of the closure of the country and the uncontrolled and aimless financing of anti-Korona packages. On the other hand, we have an excessive debt in areas where this would not be necessary at all. The Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care from 2021 to 2031 will impose a budget of EUR 1.9 billion on the Republic of Slovenia. A thousand 900 million euros we don't have, but it would be good to have them. The National Assembly has already adopted an amendment to the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022. However, as part of the development programme plan, it is only possible to take a look at it by 2025. So we will plan to spend resources when we do not yet have open future finances and we have not even started talking about the next budgets. Meanwhile, according to the latest figures, the budget has a deficit of 1.34 billion euros in the first five months of this year. Expenditure increased by 21.2 per cent and at the end of the first quarter the country's consolidated gross debt amounted to 86 per cent of GDP. This is almost a whole of what creates the economy and individuals throughout the year. As such financial hooliganism is realistic, it will be visible very quickly, as a fiscal rule will be reintroduced at the end of 2023 at European Union level. We advocate investment in health care in the LMŠ, but investment must be meaningful, complementary and – once again – especially realistic. What we confirm today is far from reality, and it's just a beating on the chest. It's just a story that's very likely never to come true. Implementation will be left to the next government and many generations, of course if the law is adopted. Implementation will be left to many speculations about what the environment will be in the future. It lacks not only a view of meaning, the future, but also lacks goals and strategies. It's not just that law that makes no sense. It is illogical, for example, for the action of the Government in January this year, when it refused to consider the decision on consent to the content of the invitation to enroll in undergraduate and single master's studies in the study year 2021/2022. The decision, which allowed for an increase in tendering places for medical studies, was therefore not adopted until February. Increasing cities should be based on expertise, not on political decision-making. We must be aware of the problem of lack of family doctors in particular, but by making decisions without a professional basis we will never achieve long-term health shifts in solving the human resources problem. The law also provides for the majority of investments in health care that are not at all defined in the adopted development plans by 2025. At this point, it must be stressed that it is so much more controversial not to do at least basic specific studies and analysis of the situation first, that we will also invest as a country in projects that are meaningful and based on expertise and actual needs, but not on the wishes of individuals just to be able to knock on the chest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Having a country also means knowing and being wet, thinking about its systems and subsystems, needs and development. Of course, this marriage, or earlier, has a type of deficiency. I will give you the opinion of our professional council, the expert council of Social Democrats, which is our thinking on health and health. A fundamental flaw is the absence of a renewed network of public health institutions. Currently, we have an outdated network of these, mainly on a secondary level – general and special hospitals. This network has now been maintained for more than three decades, although the situation at that time has changed significantly. The population has aged, a type of chronic disease – for example, we still do not have a register of diabetes patients at national level, we have a regional level, if any doctor or team works hard – cancer, need for nursing beds, progress in health technologies, including migration of the population, including the internal field of palliatives and could still be listed. All public health institutions at secondary and tertiary levels are involved in the drafting of the bill, and all proposals received are taken into account without any serious critical consideration of real needs. A key objective is the UKC Ljubljana proposal, which would also receive the bulk of these funds. Of course, investments in health care are necessary and necessary. We know that we have repeatedly repeated the use of equipment over 84 percent, in buildings more than 80 percent, and certainly not without the renovation of the network. First of all, it's important to know what we're going to do, where we're going to do it, whether we have enough personnel there, or whether we have enough interventions to do it safely and prudently, or whether we're doing some interventions at all locations or just one more of them. There are also funds for a new medical university. As a reason, it is stated that we will have more doctors and, as a result, more family doctors. That's basically the wrong argument. The number of specializations has been increasing for several years, but cities remain empty every year, especially with family doctors. It is necessary to improve working conditions and, of course, to change payment policies for primary-level specialists, not just family, but also for paediatrics and primary gynaecology. The bill is primarily, if not almost exclusively directed at the walls, and at least where the backlogs are the largest: technological development, informational upgrade of the health system. Neither are the sources of the provision of funds firmly planned, unevenly distributed, even slightly so, I will say, over the thumb evaluated. Probably already this set of desires, given the growth of the material in construction, should probably be weighted with at least 1.2 if not more at the start. The main focus is on the secondary and, above all, the tertiary level, when it is essentially forgotten about the primary, which is to be processed by four fifths or more of all services, and only 50 million are intended for that purpose. In short, from this succinct opinion of our Council of Experts, it can be clear to you that we cannot support such a law in the Group of the Social Democrats. But we need to support a way to get to this marriage. A way to actually consider the state of Slovenian public health, to consider the network, to consider some needs. It should also be considered that the architectural and urban planning of health and other institutions in this area has progressed over 40 years. It is also possible to consider whether it would not be more prudent to build a new UKC with public money in Ljubljana and to devote the present to a regional city hospital, however you wish. Also a serious consideration of where we will expand the UKC in Maribor and in these enlargements will not be the primary one who will make a speculative profit on some plots. And of course, health: yes, there are, in particular, people, as the Secretary of State said. Consider, in fact, if you want immigration policies, because health personnel will be lacking throughout the world in the developed countries where we belong. Also think about whether I'm going to start with someone who has to have 5,000 euros in his wallet, but at the same time, the digital world is going to write about digital diplomacy. A whole series of things. This concrete is coming to an end, not the way you want to take the story. I mean, that way, if I'm a little cynical, I don't build a little bit of a dog's mouth, let alone the development of health care. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	The Slovenian health system is well fed and in crisis. I'm not talking about the covid-19 epidemic, I'm talking about the situation before the virus even came into the country. I have spoken about this several times at the current meeting of the National Assembly, which is now being postponed to the other end of the week, and I will be doing it again today because I want these points to sit down. For 30 years now, the public health system has been under various pressures to privatise, legalised corruption, and at the same time the state does not allocate an adequate number of resources from the budget, because the health system and healthcare of citizens and citizens is not a priority of the political class, irrespective of how it is sworn in every debate. If we look at the figures of 5.9% of the gross social product in this country, we use public funds for the health system. If we compare ourselves with the developed countries of the European Union, we find that we are digging hard in the back, there is an average of 7.2 per cent of GDP. Translated into absolute figures, we are talking about a deficit of between €500 and €600 million, as far as it would be necessary to allocate public funds to the health system – of course to the public health system – to add as a member of the Left. With the law before us, the government brings in this backlog, or at least so, for itself. Over the next two years, €2 billion is supposed to be spent on infrastructure upgrading, but in reality this ambition is waning as soon as we dig through the breadth of the law. For starters, this law does not have defined revenues, as these revenues should be defined. Simply all these expenditure generated, hangings on the state budget, looking ahead to what is going to happen to the general economy, but there is nothing to consider about the possibility of borrowing. In translation: once the Coronavirus epidemic is over, we can expect the European Commission to reintroduce the tentacles, and the price of borrowing on international financial markets will rise, and pressure will begin on the Member States of the European Union to balance their budgets. What, then, will happen to the law that provides the necessary funds for the health system? He's going to take a dump in the trash because the political class is not going to provide adequate income and investment in health care. Instead, he prefers to provide additional money for the NATO liaison and purchases of weapons that we do not need in this country at all. This is the 780 million euro in Tonin's law that we went against in Levica with a referendum. Similarly, this law introduces a danger after privatisation. For example, financial resources for nursing hospitals and nursing homes under the long-term care system are designed to actually finance other legal persons or private providers of long-term care. Even with such priorities as public health and the public health system, which also maintains and defends us in the middle of the epidemic, the government will find appetites and interests to involve private operators in a two-billion-dollar investment. It will also be in the eyes of the fact that probably one of the more nutritious parts of the Slovenian health system is primary health care. We also have one of the biggest human resources crises, where we are severely short of family doctors. Specialisations have begun to be called upon more than in the past, but there are no applicants. How will this law help with two billion investments in health care? He won't. While providing additional resources for education, medical education, this fundamental crux problem is in no way addressed. This marriage is the sum of the Tomkin village. The government is working with him to do something, it is very evident, as already mentioned, that the revenue side of all these two billion investments is not covered in any way. However, the investments that we can see in the law are not really well defined; for example, how many will go to individual items in a given year. We don't have that information. For example, we know how much funding will go to both university clinical centres, we also know how much funding will be allocated in 2022, but we do not know how much funding will be earmarked for both UKCs in 2022. Here I will expect, in the discussion below, that the representatives of the Government will tell how much funding will be spent in a given year, as this is some basic information that is yet to be discussed. Other information, on the other hand, what is the diagnostic of needs, is something that we served in Levica several times, even at the beginning of the covida-19 epidemic. Let me remind you of March, April and May of last year. The government has been in a hurry to scrutinise the budget, to run out of funds in this budget, or to provide funds at a desperately low level for long-term care, including at a desperately low level for urgently needed investments in the public health system. Instead, at about the same time, we received the already mentioned Tonin Act, which gave priority to Slovenian public money in arms purchases, in the middle of an epidemic. At the same time, the picture in the health field is as follows. I will repeat what I said a year ago, and from then on until today the government has not heard and has brought to the National Assembly a law on health investments that has been made so little over our finger. Petra Mataja Hospital _– in complete disarray, the operating halls were closed a few years ago because they did not have an air conditioning system, windows that do not tighten, very old hospital beds, walls repent, beds are for write-off, bathrooms are useless. There are parts of a hospital where there are no sanitation at all. In the Šempeter Nova Gorica hospital, almost all medical equipment, the shortage of specialists and other health personnel, especially nurses, is a great deal of departures, and in 2019 30 people were fired, which they explained as soft replacements. Waiting patients every day more, the longest waiting time for first examinations can be up to 280 days, and this is data before the Coronavirus epidemic. The machines they have are constantly failing. The Golnik Clinic, which was one of the first lines of defense against the crown virus, is 100 years old, completely prolonged, the earthquake is not safe at all, and architecture does not allow modern treatment of patients. Maribor General Hospital is still waiting for a new infectious department. The current department is so useless that they could not even treat patients at the time of the first wave epidemic, patients were treated in other areas. The current infectious clinic is the oldest building in the house, which, with its narrow corridors and doors, does not even allow the hospital bed to be turned. The expansion due to the age of the building is not possible, the building could collapse. General Hospital Celje – preparing for renovation, expansion of premises, is expected to continue until 2024. Even in Celje, the rooms are long. The oldest building in which they carry out medical activities is from 1887, the same year that the construction of the Eiffel Tower began – ladies and gentlemen, that you can imagine. “Not even all rooms have water, we also have rooms where there are six to seven patients.” This is a quote from the Television of Slovenia when the professional director of the General Hospital Celje Franc Vindišar said this last January. Jesenice – at the end of 2019 they renovated the physical and rehabilitation facilities in the hospital, and these premises were very long, as they were and are still the state's relations, and it all says that they had to cover the investment with the help of donors. This is a situation in the Slovenian health system, for which the government of Janez Janša pretends to save her by means of its law, but, as it is said, it is something sleazy collided together, plunged into provisions that in a year, two very quickly will not survive the meeting with reality, as long as it will proceed in the way that the same law was prepared. You may be surprised to hear the following from all this criticism. In Levi, we will still support this law, although we are fully aware that it needs to be rectified if not sooner, it needs to be rectified in the next government. Why would we support him? Since this is the first statement, regardless of the fact that the SDS throws it into the parliamentary procedure as a pre-election candy, this is the first indication that the state is willing to invest in the health system and is willing to commit itself to it also by law. To put it another way, it is very clear that with this law, the Government and its supporters on the right parliamentary tribunal do not really mean anything. They do this because they can disperse in front of people before the elections and convince them that they are not really as bad as we all know and the whole country knows they are. And that's where the trick lies. The aim of the law, which is to devote two billion euros to health care in the next ten years, not only do we not oppose it in Levica, but we fully support these objectives. And unlike the proposers of this law, we take this political commitment as socialists seriously. If this law is adopted, we expect not only this but also the next government to respect the political commitment after two billion investments in the public health system. We will insist on this, and the health of citizens and citizens must be a priority. But what's in this marriage is schemparia, which is inside the privatisation subversives, which is something that, as we say, has to get out of it in the further consideration of this law. If not sooner, it must be repaired and changed by the next government. Public funds, public money, public health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that will provide for the first time in 30 years in Slovenia alone the necessary resources for Slovenian health care. In a good year, the covid-19 epidemic drained medical personnel, doctors and exposed the misery and depletion of our hospitals and public institutions. In 1994, if I return a little to the past, although the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions was adopted, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, whose purpose was to complete the investments already under way in new buildings as replacement facilities and to invest in new medical and non-medical equipment, reconstruction or partial reconstruction of extended buildings, partial reconstruction and adaptation of semi-permanent buildings due to changes in destination, more demanding investment maintenance, redemption, rehabilitation and construction of buildings and land required for the implementation of investments in individual public health institutions, the fulfilment of credit obligations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of health investments. With the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003, a budget fund for investments in public health institutions was introduced under the Law on the provision of investments in public institutions. The aim of the budget was to separate the management of revenue and expenditure and to implement the programme of investments in public health institutions. Prior to this entry into force, i.e. between 1994 and 2010, a special account was opened with the Ministry of Health, where funds were acquired for depreciation in public health establishments. Today, however, it is sad to note that the funds that have been raised for the purpose of investment and improving health care in Slovenia have not achieved the desired and set goals. There can certainly be more than one answer; it can be that they have been dealt with irrationally, that they have allegedly leaked unjustifiably to fictitious accounts and got confused in the system, as has been shown by the findings of the investigative committees of the National Assembly. Today's law provides funds for the implementation of the most important investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021-2031. In total, it has a total of a billion 943 million, almost two billion. Investments in public health institutions are foreseen throughout Slovenia, and this is an important information. UKC Ljubljana and Maribor – EUR 763 million. Let me just list a few bigger investments. In UKC Ljubljana the construction of a new infectory clinic, the completion of the result of the diagnostic and therapeutic service, the complete energy rehabilitation of the main building Hospital, the energy renovation of the Negal Hospital, the construction of a new gastroenterology clinic, the new facility of the Clinical Institute for Medical Genetics, a new connection to the old maternity clinic, Orthopedic clinic, trauma clinic, Stomatological clinic. In Novi Slovenija we call on the Government and the Minister of Health to add the building of the H Oncological Institute to the investment projects. The Cancer Institute has no waiting types and forecasts for oncology are worrying in Slovenia. It is appropriate to provide investment funds and thus sufficient space for cancer patients and their treatment. The problems of the Oncology Institute with the premises are known to everyone. The cancer institute during the epidemic was not a co-vid hospital, so it fell out of all short-term investment plans. It would also be a great benefit and an excuse for patients and employees to upgrade the H building when the fire system is repaired. The funds are also allocated to general hospitals, nursing hospitals and nursing homes amounting to EUR 557 million. For special hospitals, €214 million, 50 million psychiatric hospitals, 26 million maternity wards, 50 million primary health care activities, and the rest for other programmes and support systems of our health system. Investments for each year will be determined by an annual plan adopted by the Government. The government will report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of this law by the end of May of the year at the latest. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to be informed and to cooperate and supervise the use of public funds intended for the health and care of all of us. Before the fourth wave of the epidemic, however, I would also like to invite people to vaccination because of the burnout of our health workers and the overburdened health system. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the Law on the provision of financial resources for Slovenian health care in the years 2021-2031.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We often hear that according to our medical expertise, we follow time and development. However, it is slightly different with regard to investments, where some tell us that we were stuck in this area during the 1980 ’ s. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031 must touch all levels of health care from equipment consumption to infrastructure. This depends to what extent we will be able to introduce new treatment procedures and provide safe treatment. For the latter, it is not only appropriate infrastructure and equipment, but also sufficient number of adequately trained health personnel. The bill we are considering is a difficult two billion-euro poor, responding to the many needs of our health system. The funds allocated to both university clinical centres carrying out secondary and tertiary activities will provide a real opportunity for the development of staff with the most advanced knowledge and skills and the transfer of new methods of diagnosis and treatment from abroad. We need to be aware that both university clinical centres operate in an unenviable situation and conditions that get a sense of their dimension when compared with a university clinical centre from more developed European countries. Therefore, these funds are more than necessary. As far as general hospitals are concerned, we know that they carry out all of their overall internal, surgical, paediatric, specialist or gynaecological activities. At work, they face spatial distress, and many departments operate in obsolete and completely inappropriate spaces and use spent equipment at work. Special hospitals have been no more in an envious position than other hospitals in terms of investment in recent years. If we think that special hospitals cover specialities such as rehabilitation, oncology, pulmology, orthopaedics and specific treatment of children, a straight-line incomprehensible multi-year stagnation from the investment point of view of such an important segment of Slovenian health. As the applicant himself points out, some analyses show that in the future the need to treat patients will be increased in areas covered by special hospitals in Slovenia, especially in the field of oncology, rehabilitation and pulmology. We discussed mental health a lot during the epidemic. The topic is not directly related to the matter that we are dealing with, as mental health is an integral part of the overall health of an individual, but in the health system that the State must provide to every citizen in the framework of comprehensive healthcare, mental health is certainly one of the segments that we must not neglect anymore. We therefore welcome the planned construction of a psychiatric clinic with an emergency and the construction of a research and development centre for mental health. A few more words about numbers. For both university clinical centres, the bill provides for a good EUR 700 million. General and nursing hospitals and nursing homes will receive financial support of €557 million. Psychiatric hospitals will receive investments of EUR 50 million. Health activities at primary level will also receive €50 million. Investments in equipment and infrastructure of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the National Institute for Public Health and the Institute for Transfusion Medicine are planned to amount to EUR 33 million. For higher education institutions, for a single master's programme of medicine at the University of Maribor and Ljubljana and for secondary schools in the field of health, funds amounting to EUR 250 million are allocated. There are still a lot of content that we have not touched in our position and will certainly be exposed to debate. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health care regulates the provision and use of almost two billion euros in health care up to 2031. Investments are intended mainly for the construction of new infrastructure. We could say that this is once again one of the laws that the current government, and above all all, will commit itself to financial obligations for the next 10 years. The law states that the funds are partly provided in the budget, the remainder or most of which will have to be provided in the budgets for the period 2023 to 2031; and in the event of a 4 billion budget deficit in this year and a historically high public debt. Only together can we hope, especially the opposition, that all of this is feasible. But let's take a look at it one at a time. We agree that the exceptional situation we have witnessed has once again shown that an effective and accessible public health system is necessary for the well-being of all citizens and for the resilience of society. The law therefore provides enormous sums for a number of projects to build new clinics, earnings and so on. Despite all the projects listed above, the Ministry has apparently forgotten the primary level, which is highly undernourished by infrastructure and is allocated only EUR 50 million by law. Experts are very concerned about this and warn that more and more chronic diseases are being addressed at the primary level in reference outpatients who simply need space to do this. There are also development clinics, health centres, mental health centres and, of course, extended health care homes. At the same time, we ask ourselves in the SAB how you can expect health care to be effective and accessible to all, but when you do not take sufficient care of basic, which is the primary level. We have seen how important primary health care is when during the co-vid crisis patients are simply not in time or have not come to their diagnosis at all. That's unacceptable. If I go back to point one, the second and largest puzzle of this law is where the country, apart from the European funds, will even get so much additional financial resources per year for health. The current government has already managed to raise historically the highest public debt of an additional €10 billion due to the resolution of the crisis and the over-indebtedness and payment of the crown allowances to certain groups. The budget deficit for the previous year was over €3.5 billion, with an additional €800 million to increase according to your calculations. In the last two years, the country's debt has risen from 65 per cent to over 86 per cent of GDP. Any serious leader or political party who learns about public finances knows that there are difficult times ahead; times when a prudent investment in investment will be needed, in our case, in health care, while at the same time saving and repaying the collected debt. Instead, you owe future generations and at the same time reduce the revenue of the state budget. Back to the numbers. The compulsory retirement you have passed will go from the budget to the pension allowance of some €10 million. At the expense of the new motor vehicle tax, there will be less €28 million per year in the budget. The social cap and tax reform, if adopted, will cost a total of EUR 350 million annually and the Fiscal Council estimates that the state budget will generate another billion to half a deficit in a year or two. You are also planning the Long-Term Supply Act, which is currently without adequate financial structure. This one, however, will be left to the next governments. So how are we going to fund all these high-flying projects as a country? Or will we start to build and then, like all others, we will run out of money and semi-finished objects will spend decades alone in the eyes of our craftsmen? I'm afraid that's true, because you know what they say, paper carries everything. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we remain detained until such a proposal, but we will not oppose this reading of the proposal, but we certainly expect an answer to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Simonovich. He will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today I have on the table one in a series of necessary laws, the aim of which is the long-term sustainability of the Slovenian health infrastructure and a sufficient amount of adequately qualified staff to meet all the needs, including the needs of the ageing population in Slovenia. In the National Assembly, quite a few laws face the challenges of an ageing society. However, this type of problem and the need for proactive action in the Desus Group has been pointed out all the time. The bill is a large financial stock; in the next 10 years, you will spend almost two billion euros on the investments set. The law provides for the pre-distribution of funds across subsystems, as there are different needs and priorities. In the light of the real estate renovation, it is also envisaged to improve the accessibility of all health facilities and their services to people with disabilities or other problems which prevent access to existing infrastructure. We know that hospitals face the problems of spent equipment, and this acid apple will need to be bitten and remodeled. The key pillars of development are both the clinical centres in Ljubljana and Maribor, the last of which is allocated the most €195 million for real estate investments and € 168 million for investment in equipment, telemedicine and information technology. It is right that today Slovenian medicine, which has always achieved the highest results and internationally recognised achievements, will be able to provide an enabling environment for further achievement of the development breakthrough. In addition to spent equipment, in Slovenian health care we face a human resources deficit. Data show that Slovenia, by the number of doctors per thousand people, is below the average in the EU, especially the acute lack of family medicine doctors as well as other healthcare professionals, which is still important in the treatment process itself. Lack of medical staff is also reflected as one of the factors in long waiting lines. For the long-term sustainability and effectiveness of the healthcare system, it is therefore necessary to increase the number of admissions to a single master's degree in medicine, dental medicine studies, pharmacies and other health education programmes in order to improve the quality of the healthcare system in the long term and bring it closer to the European average. Finally, good working conditions and decent pay must also be made possible for employees. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the key role of public health in our country. If anyone else doubts this, the current epidemic event has said enough. If I finally quote the opening sentence of the text of the law: “Effective health system is one of the foundations of the successful functioning of a modern state.” I can only add that an effective health system also needs effective funding. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021-2031. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	The bill, which regulates the spending of almost two billion euros on health investments over the next ten years, is estimated by its proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Health, to lay down long-term frameworks for Slovenian health care and to invest in infrastructure, modernisation and digitisation, education and the provision of adequate staff. The long-term sustainability of the Slovenian health infrastructure and the sufficient quantity of adequately trained personnel, which will offer a response to the ageing population, are difficult to oppose. Particularly aware of the consequences that the epidemic leaves on all segments of our health system. Thus, in ten years, the law weighs almost two billion and touches all levels of health care. 250 million for educational institutions, primarily both medical schools, Ljubljana and Maribor, 500 million for general hospitals, 50 for the development of health homes at the primary level. Particular financial attention shall be paid to both clinical centres, at the same time to other general and special hospitals. In particular, it should be noted that a number of psychiatric hospitals have been withdrawn to areas that are barely fit for health care because of the stigmatised field of mental health. Therefore, they need and expect better conditions in which patients will be provided with safe, quality and timely assistance and treatment. However, since we will not reach the green branch with only walls and equipment and an increase in the number of places of entry, it is crucial to invest and educate and train health personnel. And the proposal for a law on good work also addresses this issue. The funding is provided for from different sources, with the funds involved in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, the Cohesion Policy React funds and budgetary expenditure. To what extent the budget will truly be able to provide the funds envisaged in the coming years, it is probably a puzzle today. Therefore, the implementation of the law will receive the same fates as all other laws, such as the cultural euro or the defence euro. But it is likely that the inflows into Slovenian health care in the next ten years will still be greater than if there was no law. Solving financial undernutrition with specific laws and in specific areas is not a specific or novelty in our legal order, as we have also dealt with or addressed cultural and defence matters in a similar way in recent years. Each time, the government will have to balance expenditure for this purpose or assess the budgetary situation and anticipate the level of resources for each period, which is, however, only indicatively determined by the proposal for a law. And the area of health care and the provision of quality and timely treatment for patients and patients, citizens and citizens who pay for this whole life, but do not get it at this point, must be a priority. The law itself does not provide sufficient realisation, so we expect appropriate clarifications from the current Minister of Health in the future stages of the legislative process regarding the dynamics of planned investments and the reality of their implementation. However, we will not oppose the first reading of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Nice greetings to all present; especially to you, Mr President, and to the representatives of the Ministry! In fact, all my predecessors have already repeated things twice, three times, but I will continue. We have a marriage worth a little less than €2 billion. It is true that this is a period of ten years, but the question is whether the funds envisaged are sufficiently high or even too low. I remember, or if you remember, in the previous composition of the National Assembly, the president of the Committee, Trček, has always talked about urgent investments in health worth €700 million. Things don't get forgotten. The answer is that it is likely to be sufficient resources under adequate control of consumption, without fraud and theft. In the light of experience, it will be difficult for each authority to meet the right consumption of public money. The law itself does not determine which projects the money will be spent on, but the description in the introduction shows which projects are most exposed to today. Much of the funding is earmarked for UKC Maribor, even taking into account that it also covers the entire eastern Slovenia, including my Ormož. This institution assumes a heavy burden, as it is the only one in this wider territory of Slovenia; on the other hand, it is a disproportionate development of institutions according to their location, which is not eliminated by this law. For example, this law provides for an increase of 50 places of entry at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana and only 20 in Maribor. This is not decentralisation and the law covers a period of ten years, i.e. another ten years of centralisation. Once again, capital flows to the capital and there is unequal treatment. The Ministry is aware of the acute problems in UKC Maribor, but the law we have before us does not describe these problems or mention only certain problems. Some of the outstanding problems are in the Department for Skin and Sexual Diseases, the Department for Pulmonary Diseases, the Department for Infectious Diseases and fevers, cooling conditions and could also be listed. I would like to say that, as of today, the big question is whether all the problems facing the health system are fully anticipated, since the analysis is not just an introductory provision describing the current problems and without projections. The big question is which projects will be in the annual plan. However, it is not foreseen where the problems will occur over the next ten years, i.e. during the period for which this law applies. It can happen that problems and new interests will overwhelm the current described projects, which should have started years ago. However, the question is whether 35 million were adopted in 2018 for the reduction of waiting species was really deliberately used, since I did not get information on whether the money was intended to reduce waiting lines or for something else. He doesn't know. If we are already deciding on such an amount, it is only right that all Members are informed if the money has come to the right place. It is not normal for a patient to be scheduled for surgery for one day, for another day to wait for a service, and for the next day to come, or even later. In my position, I'll also tell you my personal problem. From mid-November to April, I waited for surgery. On April 16, I went to the hospital to perform an operation. They told me I'd get an invitation from the hospital, but that's what happened until today. But I'm not gonna tell you what hospital this is about. This is not normal at this stage of the company’s development and so on. It is certainly commendable that investments in the spatial and human resources problems of the Slovenian health system will be made. The problem is, too, that the premises are not treated rationally. Let me mention that the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television has acquired the chemical college spaces, rather than being dedicated to the Faculty of Pharmacy. There is also a problem with the staff on the new programmes. With this in mind, we have in mind a study course for the pharmacy in Maribor. We want more decentralisation of health care because, for example, oncological patients who are being treated from the outskirts of Ljubljana are going through unnecessary psychological pain. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, everyone! In recent years, the Slovenian health system has been recognised mainly by the worsening accessibility of patients to their treatment, outdated spaces, worn-out equipment, lack of personnel and consequently longer waiting types. Today, former Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar said of waiting periods before the time, among other things: “At the beginning of my first term as Minister of Health in 2013, there were 7 000 840 waiting above the professional waiting period. However, when I took over the Ministry of Health in 2020, there were as many as 73 thousand 765. This clearly shows that the measures we have implemented so far have unfortunately not produced the desired results." End of quote. It follows from this that it is imperative to radically change the existing health system, which has been neglected and forgotten in all these years under the rule of your left governments in particular. Slovenian health care needs to be updated and optimized in its operation and thus effectively put the patient, its care, but not only in words, but also in actions to ensure that people have access to health services when they need them. However, in view of the existing health situation and in many areas, it is only difficult to provide sufficient quality and safe services for patients, the law under consideration establishes new frameworks for its long-term sustainability and functioning. Given the situation we have, strengthening the existing health system is therefore necessary at all levels. The law thus provides for investments in primary health care and specialised hospitals – psychiatric, orthopaedic, rehabilitation, pulmology, obstetrics – the establishment of nursing hospitals and nursing homes as part of the establishment of a long-term care system, the specialisation of smaller general hospitals and the establishment of strong regional hospitals. As a result of past underinvestment in health infrastructure, the use of equipment and premises is now exceptional. The Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia announced in June this year that the proportion of equipment written off in Slovenian hospitals is already more than 80%. If I mention only the largest clinical centre in the country, i.e. the Ljubljana University Clinical Center, from the end of 1975, when the centre was built, until today, i.e. a good 45 years old, no adaptation or renovation has been carried out in many of its departments, which would necessarily be necessary in the first place for the safety of patients and, on the other hand, to improve the working conditions of employees. And if we look at data from the Ministry of Health, there were poor 236 million investments in both clinical centres in the country between 2008 and 2020. Today's law for investments in both clinical centres in Ljubljana and Maribor foresees a total of €763 million in the next ten years; that is, €527 million more than has been earmarked for investments in both clinical centres in the last 13 years. The University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana envisages the construction of a gastroenterology clinic and a new facility of the Clinical Institute for Medical Genetics among the major planned investments in this law, as well as the new background of the maternity clinic and Orthopaedic clinic and the second phase of the new infective clinic. As part of the investment in UKC Maribor, the restructuring of the OP block, the construction of the foundation of the Internal Medicine Clinic and the building of the Oncology Department are envisaged. For general hospitals, nursing hospitals and nursing homes throughout the country, the law spends €557 million in the coming years. The construction of the Gorenje Regional Hospital, the upgrading of hospital facilities and the provision of medical facilities for the treatment of patients with infectious diseases at the General Hospital Izola, demolition and new construction, and the modernisation of equipment at the general hospitals of Slovenj Gradec, Brežice, Ptuj, Nova Gorica, Murska Sobota and Novo mesto. For specialised hospitals, the law provides, inter alia, for the expansion of capacity with new constructions and upgrades to the Soča URI, the Šentvid Center for the Treatment of Infectious Diseases in Stična, the Oncological Institute, the Golnik Clinic, Topolšica Hospital and Valdoltra Hospital, for which funds of 214 million are provided in this area. However, EUR 26 million will be earmarked for investments in the Kranj and Postojna maternity wards, where no funding has been provided for the planned and urgently needed strategic investments so far. Similar conditions are also faced today by psychiatric hospitals, many of which have been removed even to areas that are barely fit for health care because of many stigmatised areas of mental health. In order to provide their patients with safe, quality and timely assistance, the law also provides 50 million euros for psychiatric hospitals, with the provision of a new building in the Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik, the construction of the Psychiatric Clinic with an E.R. and the construction of a mental health research and development centre with equipment at the University Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana. At the primary level, we have 62 health institutions in Slovenia, which are one of the key pillars of our health system and have not been invested in them in recent years. It is true that the founder of these houses is a local community, or a municipality, which is responsible for the management and management of the institution, but also here the state includes its assistance to local communities, for which 50 million euros are provided by law. For comparison only, so far in the last 13 years – only 10.8. But it is not only that in all these years, or more than ten years, there has been a significant under-investment in Slovenian health care and, apparently, less than in other comparable countries, which is why the human resources manna is also a pressing problem in this area. The fact is that Slovenia is below the European average by the number of doctors per thousand. The draft law therefore provides for investments in scientific and educational institutions, inter alia, with a view to increasing entry points for a single Master's degree in Medicine and Dental Medicine and other study and higher education programmes of health activities. The law provides for 200 million euros for the remaining staff for secondary schools, and 50 million euros for higher education for higher education and higher education institutions. In Slovenian health care, many problems have accumulated over the years, which today require immediate responses, if we want to avoid the future, that patients must pay more and more services from their own pocket in spite of paid health insurance, in order to reach a doctor in due course and with the necessary assistance. But the fact is, without additional resources, it will no longer be possible to eliminate the development gap and to ensure that the health system has increased capacity, which will have to meet the growing needs of the growing population in the future. The law therefore foresees almost EUR 2 billion for the rehabilitation and modernisation of Slovenian health care in the next ten years, until 2031, with the use of these funds in addition to the budget also provided for from the European Recovery and Resistance Plan and cohesion funds. And as has already been said today, this is the first law in these 30s of our independent Slovenia, which provides for urgently needed investment in our health system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such an upgrade of the health system is necessary for the safe, quality and timely treatment of patients and for the better working environment of healthcare workers, so today, of course, we will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the government's representative gets the word, mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a system-wide investment law that sets the scope and purpose of funding with one very important objective: to provide health funding in the future. This is the main and most important objective. Yes, honourable Members and Members, it is 1.9 billion euros, but we must be aware of something. Already, more than €540 million has been provided in the React projects, the LRF projects and the planned cohesion project. So we're not starting from scratch, but we're going with a nice passport right now. And I believe that if Slovenia was able to build a highway cross, if we are able to build railways, then we will also be able to provide in the next ten years these funds for Slovenian health care, which are necessary, so that Slovenian health can develop. At the Ministry of Health, we are very aware that we have a 30-year network. And we have a network, of course we have a network that hasn't been updated. We are very well aware of this, so this law is also an opportunity to adapt this network to the regional needs of the Slovenian population and to allow hospitals to do what the regional needs of the Slovenian population need. Mr Kordiš gave a very good impression of what is in Slovenian hospitals, and he probably stopped and could continue. Yes, unfortunately, such a situation as Mr Kordiš mentioned is in Slovenian hospitals and therefore this law is all the more important, as it also invests in the necessary equipment. And not only equipment, Slovenian health needs to be digitized and made more rational. That's what this law takes into account. As far as primary health care is concerned, the Ministry of Health is extremely well aware of what the primary level means for Slovenian health. Very good. If you just look at the role that the primary level played during the covida-19 and is still playing it, of course, the primary level should be given all the attention. At a meeting in Brdo, where the government and the Minister of Health and all the mayors met, we discussed this, we received the needs of the primary level. The Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are aware of the need to invest further in the primary level. We're very well aware of that. Because the primary level is the window into the health system. The primary level can relieve the secondary and tertiary levels. And we are confident that this can be achieved by appropriate investment. What matters to me is that the Ministry of Health will not make any differences in the regions. The Ministry of Health will only take into account what is most important, the needs of the Slovenian population across the regions. Therefore, there will be no difference between hospitals, UKCs, Ljubljana, Maribor and so on. We will take into account what is substantively necessary for each region. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Good day to all, especially to the Secretary of State, who was hoping to come to the National Assembly today; unlike his colleague, who last night knows where she went. She just didn't think it was worth it to come to the board, let alone send someone else, at least an official. No, otherwise, she said that she had said everything she had to say; or that they had said in their opinions, which we then looked unhappyly for after Udis and found nowhere; and in the end they found that she had not actually sent anything. I hope we don't communicate with you like that. Since I'm talking to you for the first time in the National Assembly, I hope you'll at least be a pleasant surprise to me, because your colleague has disappointed me a long time ago. But because it's a very important marriage and because you're not a doctor, you have experience in running Soca, but it's not exactly a hospital. Soča is a high, distinguished institution for me, which also has very nice and good references. I believe that your hospital activity at least on the tertiary level is very clear and hard on you. At the same time, you probably had an insight into the entire health system, how it works, what you are also discussing today and talking about primaries, however. The Investment Act is not exactly one law. I must say, I'm a little surprised that there is so little interest in this law, especially because we're talking about investment in TES 6 money, ranking 2nd track, only the highway cross was more expensive. And it seems to me that it is one and the other at the end, they end up and it will be sooner or later, it's only a matter of time before that happens for the second track, that the criminals will eventually knock on the door and start looking at all the transactions that are already going on. And there's gonna be something like that in this business. If you're faking it, I'm not, because the beginning is so blurry, so blurry that it couldn't have been more fog. And since you have experience with the organization and if you were to be the director of one hospital, I believe you would like to have some steps taken before you decide – I am going to invest. And at least what is, at least, purely household, logically everyone at home thinks when buying an apartment or deciding to build a house that has a financial structure closed. Do we have it? This law does not speak of any financial structure. It only speaks of some millions or billions of 900 million, which is not a small number. And then you say, Secretary of State, 500 million is guaranteed, so let's go to investment in 10 years. Okay, we're a state, the state doesn't just fall through the night, it can get guarantees, the state can also borrow money, hold, in the final stage, why not. But just like this law was written, I would be very concerned if you were the Minister of Health and were to lead this ministry. But I'll talk about it a little bit later. So first, I'm going to ask myself who the author of this marriage is. Who actually wrote this law? And when we look at the papers, we find that there's a lawyer here, Mr. Gardener. Where have we heard that name before? Where did this lawyer's name come from? Yeah, right. Defence Act or military investment. There too is Mr. Gardener, and he is also the co-author of this law. And where else do you have connections? Very similar numbers are in investments, at least as regards clinical centres, because one likes to play with numbers and how much has already been invested. And I'm gonna play a little game. We'll put 700 million in both clinical centres and 700 million in the military. Whose lawyer was this Mr. Swimmer? And who did this Mr. Swimmer help? We've got some interesting stuff here, I'm reading, I've just been going through things, helping Mr. Tonin. Where's the minister? Minister of Defense, yes, that's right. He worked with Mr. Restoring, his lawyer, also interesting. Because he already helped Mr. Tonin whose department is the Ministry of Health? Yeah, look at the fraction, just by chance from New Slovenia. It's too many coincidences, but now I've said it ironically because I'm getting on my nerves, and I have to operate on some names and watch something, who, where he had his fingers. But in this way it is certainly a very bad journey and a bad start. And if we leave this gentleman alone, we'll go to the facts that are written in marriage. If you look very closely at Article 4, which concerns me most in the entire marriage, not this imaginary number, which is fantastic and has no coverage at all, but Article 4, where we are talking about taking on commitments. The first point, the Ministry responsible for health, for the implementation of investments under this Act may conclude contracts with which it assumes obligations for the entire period of validity of this Act. Say and write, read, so ten years if we read the rest of the articles and see how they imagined after the wars how that money would flow in. Ten years, my dears, not knowing that you do not know at all whether this money will be provided in the budget, because it is a fact that from European money, as you can see, will not be able to make the whole. While this government has already adopted the budget for 2022, and if we look at the NRPs in the budget, let's take a look, we will see how much reality there is. We will see, for example, on the secondary, 2021 - 63, 2022 - 67, 2023 - 51 million, 2024 - 48 million, and 2025 - 18 million. Don't joke. That's not nearly enough of what you'd be running out of to get to a billion. That's 200 million. For the record, I'm sorry, but in the NRP you gave zero for 2023, 2024, 2025. There's no euro. And you're telling me that you're going to put it at the primary level, that it's going to have to be given, invested and so on. Really? When? Where? How much? These are things that interest us when we adopt such a marriage if we are to have a serious conversation. Next thing you know, it's important. By Article 4, the Ministry of Health assumes the full responsibility of financing, the full implementation of this law. Do you know what that means? Because you run a hospital and you know what that means when you sign a contract with someone who's done it, and then you don't have the money, that means that money will go out of the Ministry for other things unless the funds are guaranteed. That is why we have a plan for development programmes. And without that, we can't afford any kind of investment. And now to convince us that this is a good law, of course, is right funny until we clear these numbers. Therefore, this law will still have to be radically corrected and refined in order to put in certain security guards. The next thing is very important in this law, and I wonder when the Ministry of Health has been building schools, campuses. What does this have to do with the Ministry of Health? Because Article 4 speaks precisely about this, it assumes full responsibility for all investments under this law. However, investments under this law are clearly listed. In one article before this or in the second article, where you have under 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 healthcare facilities, you have under 8 and 9 educational systems. Here we go, 8 – higher education institutions for a single master’s degree program of Medicine, Dental Medicine, and Pharmacy. I'm sorry, the Ministry of Health has never funded this, never, ever. It always worked, if it did, it was done by other ministries that were responsible for it. The only exception for which the Ministry of Health provided money is specialisation for doctors, provided that we unloaded the health allowance when we transferred the money or had to provide it to the Ministry of Health. You're gonna have to play a little game. I don't know, Mr. Gardener either has no idea or he thought it was an army that can do what he wants, because the weapon is a weapon and it doesn't matter whether it's on the top or below or anywhere, but investment is an investment. In health care this is slightly different and will need to be taught a little; or find someone who is incapable of writing the law. The next thing that matters to me is, of course, how do you plan to invest in a hospital, if we don't even have a 10-year plan for the development of hospitals in the tertiary, secondary and primary levels. We don't have that. But if you do, tell me, because it's probably a state secret that we don't know yet. I personally have to say that I know a few documents and I know quite a bit about it, but I've never seen this document before. I wonder if you know what the network will be like in 2030, 2031 in Maribor. You know what the health net will be like, you know what it'll be like? Do we know what will be needed in Ljubljana then, or in New Town, or in Jesenica? No, we don't know because no one's calculated them yet, because we're barely getting the needs that we have today, because you can figure out what the waiting types are. While, of course, we all talk only about doctors. Where's all the other personnel? We don't even provide these needs. One minister came in, and he even said that 2,000 sisters were too many. Fakin, by the way. This changes from day to day. Why is this important for investment? Yes, for God's sake, because we need to know if we're going to be working on general hospitals and on the logic and strategy that we have today. This is that we have the general hospital concept, which has five activities that are compulsory, then all the rest, which attribute and impose needs or after ability and development or decision as a public institution. Or we will be doing something at last – this is that we will find that Slovenia needs up to 5 to 6 serious hospitals, which are specialized hospitals, which we have been talking about for 15 years. And that it's about time we stopped breaking him down, that at least he has to have a place all because it's not going and he's not going anywhere, because we're not so rich, we're just not going to be able to. We don't even have enough doctors to sort them out. I mean, for those of you who don't understand what I'm talking about, it's more than clear that if we decide to develop eye specialistism in New Town, we're going to invest everything there if we develop orthopaedics in Valdoltra, we're going to invest everything there. I mean, I don't define anything, and I didn't want to prejudge anything with it. But do we know that? Do you at least know that at the Ministry of Health? Because if you know, then faster every day with a word, faster. Why? Because we're talking about a billion 900. Excuse me? Yeah, someone's on the phone. Anyway, a billion 900 isn't enough money. Because of Teš in the Slovenian space, we held countless meetings in the National Assembly, even the parliamentary laws that took essentially a decision instead of a government, because the government did not have this courage, so that in fact we were in some way setting up extra cash so that Tesh could finish. Then we even had investigative committees, and there were only a billion 400. Second track, we had two referendums in Slovenia because of this, but it was a significantly smaller money and a significantly smaller section of the line. But here we can easily talk – not to be misunderstood – I am willing to press 10 billion if necessary for Slovenian hospitals, as well as 10 billion, as for highways, I have no problems, but first I want to know something. What is the vision, what are we investing in, and what are the expectations? Will this, of course, be sufficient for such needs when it is built? Not as fast as the emergency centres were running, the same government started with emergency centres and then in the time of Mileka Kolar Celarc we had to quickly complete those emergency centres that were more or less crippled, all reduced and so on, and we all know why. Because there was nothing? What we are talking about today is money. Because someone was planning on doing this again so that I don't know what's going to happen; and in the end, we were only doing one section so that we could get to what we have today. And yet no one is satisfied again with these emergency centers, and by the way – they are not as bad as some people say they are. But at least what it is, we should have very clear plans. Former Minister Marušič, if you have read, recently gave one record, where he made it very clear that in fact in Slovenia we would need about five serious centres, where in fact we would have everything at the level of the tercian or secondary, these very quality equipped and, of course, with serious needs and capabilities and finally with a clear plan, what this means in terms of teams, not just doctors. Because we all talk too much about doctors, because doctors themselves will not do anything, but they will make a huge contribution if they have a good team; and with this team they will be able to do a great deal. And yet, do we have these clear pictures? We don't. We don't. I'm very skeptical about this marriage, because it doesn't tell me anything, except that we're gonna throw a lot of money away, but not much. What does renovating or investing in walls, as my predecessor put it, mean? What does that really mean? I've even read now that we're even going to invest, so I won't think about it, in phase two of the infectious clinic. Let me explain what a second phase of an infectious clinic is. I don't know what stage two of the infectious clinic is. All I know is the remodeling of an infection clinic or a new clinic. Then we'll be doing a new background to the old maternity ward, the orthopedic clinic, and so on. We're a state of destinies. I beg you, let's stop this nonsense. Let's face it, there are certain demolition facilities because they're inoperable and it's just a waste of money. And I prefer to build a new facility on that plot or adapt it to the new, modern needs of the 21st century. We all know that specifically the clinical center, the UKC, should be torn down. We should crush him because he is no longer effective at what we need in the 21st century and make a completely new clinical center. However, if we do not have the heart to break the UKC, we should make a new building of UKC Ljubljana and UKC should be dedicated to the city hospital, what is really missing in Ljubljana. The complete Ljubljana region was always disadvantaged, unlike everyone else, because it never had a city hospital, it always had only a specialized University Clinical Centre, which was for everyone. And it is not wrong for all of us not to get things wrong, only then the pressure was so great that the rest of us couldn’t even get to the services anymore. What are we gonna do? Will we resolve and answer certain questions by the time it is addressed, by the time it is proposed? Have you done a serious financial analysis? Will someone let me know what we want with the remodeling of the health system? Because it'll be a prerequisite that we don't have new stories again. Now you're talking, everyone's gonna get the same. Secretary of State, no offense, I'll fix you. Not all will get the same because they cannot all get the same, because they do not all have the same needs; and do not explain that they will all get the same. Well, what justice is that? Justice is if, of course, you measure as much as you need to make it possible to live. And so let's stop painting and say that we can't go there that much, because otherwise they're going to get hurt, and everyone has to get the same. Of course, the moment it started to talk about investing heavily in hospital walls, the appetites grew in all hospital directors. It's logical, it's normal. If I were, I would have grown appetites, too, but it is clear to whom this money is intended and for what needs and how this system will develop. But if we are to say that everyone will get what they need, not the same, but what they need, then one serious plan must be made. First, find out what we need, what we even have. Although you mentioned that you know exactly what the primary needs are, but you didn't say, but the Minister said, or maybe even the secretary of state or someone else, I don't know, I don't know, I haven't remembered, but someone said, but I know that it wasn't you, the primary health care state will not finance, it'll only help a little, because it's a matter of local communities. You know, we're gonna have to make a decision in this country sometime. Ljubljana can adapt its healthcare homes and it is and will continue to be, Maribor is harder, and other municipalities I prefer not to mention, very difficult. And that's the problem, and we're gonna have to admit that. But we would like to be told when money needs to be given, and this is not your problem, the Ministry of Health, it is a problem of a complete state and a constant relationship of the state-local community, when money needs to be given, they say, it is a matter of the local community. But when we have to decide on programmes, on functions, on powers, and then the state says - no, but here we will give our consent, and here we will tell how it will be. And that's wrong. Local self-government is independent of state functions. If she wants to be effective and independent, she must have at least two conditions. One is money, the other is clear tasks and powers. Otherwise, there's nothing he can do. And so you will also have to make very clear at the Ministry how much money you will put at the primary level, because this law, let's be concrete, not to mention if you were talking about the Maribor University Clinical Centre and Ljubljana, at least you were still trying to figure out how much land costs and how much investments are going to cost and what you're supposed to calculate, you calculated that there would be 763 million, general hospitals 557 million, special hospitals 214, and the rest you've already started rounding, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50. Don't make fun of me. You know how this works, because I know what happened. But then there was so much money left, and then you had to split it open, and you don't really know exactly what you're going to do with that money today. You only have defined wishes. What's really gonna come out of this, and we don't know yet, and that's the problem with this marriage. This is a serious problem with this marriage. Sorry, this government's been talking all the time, and you're going to be saying it, and I'm going to repeat it like a broken record, and you're going to say it's been accepted by the National Assembly. This was accepted by the National Assembly. Don't make fun of me! This was invented by the government, and with her coalition, she achieved that acceptance. But since this government is going to last a little over half a year, if it's all good luck, you'll fall asleep, the law will be passed, the next government will come. And what's she gonna do about it? What's she gonna do about it? Next thing you know, she's gonna have to sit down and figure out what we really need. But because there will be pressure again, because again there will be hands, because someone will quickly deal and start making certain calls for preparatory work at least for the current year or for the next year and negotiate, because you know – money makes money, business to business. This is very clear to this government how these things run. Of course, it will be necessary to determine what is also concluded and where it is already being wasted. And I'm very, very unhappy. I'm extremely unhappy. I'm sure of one thing, Secretary of State, when you were Director in Soča, you knew for 10 years further what development goals you have in this hospital, and you knew very clearly how you can get to this and what needs to happen if you want to get to it. In this National Assembly, I also advocated the thesis that you must get the parking spaces you urgently need for your activities from time to time. I also told the mayor that he would have to do this sooner; and thank God you've made up your mind now and it's settled. But you still had to make a deal and know what you wanted. With this law, I'm sure you don't have everything you want. But I know why you need this marriage, I get it. If this law does not exist, you will find it more difficult to justify in the EU how you will spend your money. He's in a hurry. I even thought you'd go with the intervention law because this government is popular with these and excited if there's anything interventional, so that it can accept everything overnight because someone wants it. But I'm afraid it's going to be one win in the end. Now it's just a relationship. But inside, I heard something about how much Slovenia is investing and how much the EU is investing. We're gonna have to decide for once in this country what kind of thing we're counting. I am always angry again, but this does not apply to you, the state, in general, to this government, including the previous government, and the previous one to the same problem. Your government has passed a law on long-term care. Calculate how much more money there will be to go from the cash register, which means that the share of GDP will increase, how much to put in health care, because this share of the OECD and their methodology is the share that fits in health, not in social life, as some dream and blouse, and still think that they manage this work. They won't. As a result, money goes and the proposal is made to go to the health department. Otherwise this law does not yet foresee calculation, very smart, because it will be once in 2024, 2025, because it doesn't matter when, said the government. When it is, it will be. But only before the elections can we not say and tell people in truth that they will have to pay for long-term care. Of course they will, of course they will, and you have to say it out loud, and you know exactly how much they're going to pay for it. At least it will have to go from this money around 450 million to 500 million, but what's already going on is already about 300 million from the health department today, what is already indirectly going into long-term care. And if we add that amount, we'll see that we're there. We're there after these calculations. It's not true to put at least in health care. But it is true that we give at least from our own pocket directly, and that is what we are talking about. This share in the European Union is significantly higher or per Member State. Because there's no one here who doesn't want to say anything out loud, the courage to tell people that they're going to have to give more for their health than for their car, and more than for the car for the luxury they want, because health is expensive, so it is. These calculations will indeed have to be made on the table once and not by comparison, which does not withstand one serious assessment. All you know is, if you want to bring a marriage like this through, you have to say we don't give it enough. But the fact is, at one point, we're the same. The financing of health care has been fed all the years, all the years. And that's because everyone knew that in four years he wouldn't be able to do what people wanted to do, and you wouldn't do it either, you wouldn't, because you can't do it in four years, let alone three quarters of a year. State, it wasn't all meant for you not to take it personally. It was meant for the government and it was intended for all of us to think together when we adopt such a law, please do not think that we have no idea of the things you write. So far, the law has been written in such a way that it is ready for elections to inform people that we have given and provided a billion 900 for health care. You don't even have that money yet, you know that. He's not here. He'll just have to be provided. How, in some way, do I expect the committee to prepare this. Personally, I cannot support such a marriage because it is not serious and it is difficult to correct it with amendments, very difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Let's get Gobbler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, remain present, once again a nice greeting! I must say that when I heard the government's first announcement – we decided that now is the time to invest in health care, public health, mostly in public hospitals and everything else, after the new 200 million euros a year – I said, and this is the right decision. This increased what had been done in the past by three or fourfold; and it was doing significantly too little. This general decision to finally realize that Slovenian hospitals need to be invested and to understand how important public health is is really great. That's the first step. Second thing, if we're going to have another 200 million. It is true, as you yourself said, in 2021, we all read numbers, we also see what numbers are planned for 2022 and then on, but in fact we will have to ensure this 200 million because if it does not, it will be a false promise; and that is not what our citizens and citizens deserve. Ensure, of course, by increasing the inflows to the state budget. That's clear. And they would be very credible if there were such legislation in the background, not legislation that reduces the tide by almost one billion. So what do you do to speed up the inflows into the state treasury, all three state cash registers, while at the same time making promises about the new 200 million?Oh, my God! You know, in the end, the budget is just math. And finally, when the Minister of Health is sitting in a room in 2023 and they say, the budget framework is another fiscal rule; yes, and then there will be a problem. But I want you to tell me how you imagined that money would be provided on the line for ten years. Then the next question. It is true that Slovenian hospitals have invested something in their depreciation, something from the state budget, probably also from another source, they have invested little in general. This is a fact, as is the fact that if you choose to invest two billion dollars, you have to have at least a vision that probably a group of smart heads are sitting at the table, scanning where we are, and says – in ten years, we want to be there. So there must be some paper to say, ten years from now, we want to be there, and it would be so good to have this paper attached to this law. I can't find him, Mr. Secretary of State. It's hard to say that I'm a computer expert, I went looking in every way I could, and I can't find this paper. Please inform us where this paper is, that you have found that 2 billion needs to be directly into specific projects. Then, of course, I'm a little scared, but what if it wasn't based on the fact that a group of smart heads didn't make one vision of where we want to be in 11 years' time; and it was just demand, what do you want? If this was the question, then we have a strong problem, which will further increase the perceived irrationality in Slovenian health care if the question of what you want has been sent. I have to tell you, I went to look at the things I've asked in the past. I'm from the Pomurje region, I'm a member of the Pomurje Parliamentary Club, of course, and then I'll take a look at where inside our pomurje hospital, the Rakičan General Hospital, which I think is one of the biggest hospitals in Slovenia, when 500 million are shared for these hospitals. Well, look at that shit. It says – an investment in that hospital, a new building, an addition to construction and the like. What about Pomurje? Just the adaptation of some department. Of course, it follows that as a member of the Pomurian Members Club, we will probably send the question to the hospital’s management – Did you sleep when a collection of wishes was made? [[advertising from the hall]] What the hell is this?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Dear Member, please respect the Rules of Procedure and do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Mr. Jew, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I promise I will never react to you like that. So how did you come up with a set of these desires that one regional hospital would be torn apart? Maybe a rational answer, but we Members can't know it because it's not on the paper. But I ask you to answer me why in Murska Sobota there is only adaptation to something, and somewhere else the demolition is new, new and new. Next thing you know, it's a series of questions. Mr State Secretary, I am also a Mariborian, from which I come, and parents live there, and not least in Prekmurje, where I now live, and I am also Prekmurec; our clinical centre is a Mariborian which covers one third of Slovenia. You probably don't know, because I haven't talked to you enough about this subject, but with all of your predecessors, the previous years, when I realized at some point, there was a general lack of investment, but from 2009 to 2018, that is to say, in a decade, some investment ratio between UKC Maribor and UKC Ljubljana 1:2,22, which is also some relationship between the size and the number of patients they treat each year. Then I don't know what happened in 2018, investments in Maribor are significantly lower, all relationships are broken. And of course I looked at whether this cake is 750 million euros as much – but you have to understand, because I can't find any other criteria in it – then look regionally, one UKC covers one third of Slovenia, the other two thirds, and the equipment of the building is in both bad condition, both of them. If you step into the UKC Maribor area, just look from the outside and then step inside. In general, everything should be rebuilt, rebuilt, as well as in Ljubljana. Then I read what you promise to one UKC, what you promise to another UKC, as you can see. That's what I'd like you to tell me, too, is why you wrote this down because you wrote it down. I wonder if this trend, which is in 2018 – but I don't know why – pointed out that the UKC is out there, I know that this is not really going to be decided by high government officials, but by those officials who are in charge of it, but it feels like there are only people who know that there is UKC Ljubljana in Slovenia. Your minister, when he was a candidate, he was sitting here somewhere, asking questions, and he promised everything he could to do here, and so he wouldn't do it in the future. It is not clear from this document. So I won't waste too much time to say it again. Firstly, the view that more money from the integrated budget will be invested in investments in public, we can call it without embarrassment, the state hospital, it is correct, I support. Second. I want to know where you're gonna get that money. And don't say we'll be so strong in the negotiations, because governments will change. I want to know that if more promises are made, more money in the state budget needs to be provided. Third thing I want you to explain to me. On what basis are specific matters specifically recorded? Is it possible from behind that which is also possible - and if I may have been overly emotional - step forward, then I apologize at this point that you have gotten the smart heads of people who know and scanned Slovenia know what to do, made a plan, and based on this law, it is great. Just show that we will see this as Members and Members; but if we do not have a serious problem in advance. At this point, I will conclude by thanking everyone for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have already mentioned the financing of this law. Of course, we will get more from the European Structural Funds, less from the state budget. However, honourable Members, we must be aware that Slovenia has invested 30 to 40 million a year in Slovenian health care over the last ten years, and I can also speak for the last 10 years. 30 to 40 million a year, and that's why the situation is the way it is. Therefore, the Ministry of Health will make an enormous effort to obtain funding from the European Structural Funds, but it is definitely a fact that the State budget will have to provide more resources than it has so far. It won't work otherwise. If we want successful Slovenian health care, we will have to do so. No matter who the government is, who it is, that's what it's gonna have to do. Mr Židan, you have correctly assessed, it is between €150 million and €200 million per year of funding. I am confident that at least 50 million a year will be obtained from European funds, and the rest will have to be provided by the state budget. Whether he will be able to provide all of these 150 million at the annual level is a question, but once we have to decide here, in Parliament, and probably all the other governments, whether they will support Slovenian health care and make this possible. As far as how we got this information. If you would take into account the wishes of hospitals, as has been said, then you would have come to about 4 billion, because of course the desire is enormous. The main document we have taken into account is a resolution of Slovenian health care, which applies until 2025. This is the main document from which we came, what are the needs of the Slovenian population. On the basis of this document, we have classified the necessary investments, which of course are not all of them. We must be aware that Slovenian health care will change dramatically in the future. The needs of the Slovenian people will change regionally. Residents are moving from region to region, needs are different, but this document was our basis. You also mentioned UKC Maribor. What was the reason why UKC Maribor was not so involved in the past? For the first time, the reason that there were no projects prepared was simple. UKC Maribor had not prepared projects, but if you have read the law correctly, you can see that the relationship at this time between the investments we will invest in UKC Maribor and UKC Ljubljana is properly distributed according to the number of patients that these two institutions also treat. The Ministry of Health has no intention of discrediting anyone in terms of investment, but we will strictly take into account the needs of the Slovenian population, regardless of which region it is from. We have not only Maribor, we have not only Ljubljana, we have Primorsko, we also have Dolenjska and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Get Alexander Reberšek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr Secretary of State, we also have Celje, General Hospital Celje. I hope that it will not be built until the third stage, but then the matter will stop and – as Comrade Micah said – hospital facilities from 1875 will remain unfit for use. I didn't mean to say that. It was just a short replica. Miha has already made it clear that, after the discussions that are taking place in this national assembly, it is clear that there will be no one who will not support such a law unless it is empty paper without real value for the moment. And these debates now remind us all of this very side, of the financial coverage of this law, which is very important, important as a number of other matters. Otherwise, I don't understand why the Ministry of Health, which has a whole bunch of institutions under its umbrella, has outsourced the preparation of this law and also hired a law firm, that's Vratčnik, as previously said. However, if Mr. Vratčnik helped prepare this law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care, and given that Novi Slovenija has prepared a law on investments in weapons for the Slovenian Army, and that the Ministry of Health also belongs to Nova Slovenija in this government, I would expect them to be so specific in this party and in the government that they will also benefit from the knowledge of this gentleman that they will also make use of the law on investments in Slovenian public health institutions. This would first say that the matter becomes concrete without talking about an empty paper that will be very beautiful, and if it remains empty, without financial foundations, it is practically a pre-election pamphlet without value. I want to know something. The Act is to be based on the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. This resolution also states that all investments in health infrastructure will be based on analysis and needs assessment. Question: "Who did this analysis and needs assessment?" When was it done? Is it updated or old? And where can we read it? Please. And a second time. This Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 also provides for the preparation of a long-term strategic programme for the modernisation of Slovenian health infrastructure with a national plan for investments in public health institutions. Where can we read this programme and where do we see this national plan? If it's not there, how do we know that the projected investments, as recorded here, are strategic? Since I'd like to say this, I mentioned at the outset, the basic criticism of the law is that it's an account without an innkeeper. We don't see any financial grounds here. To justify why. I'll say it in two points. The Health Investment Act and the Long-Term Care Act are virtually without financial coverage. And this government will, by reducing income to high incomes and introducing a social cap to the highest wages in practice, we have already pointed out this several times in this National Assembly, greatly reduce the public revenues that are already too small to finance the various legal things that this country should provide to citizens and citizens. And the proposed law, together with the law on long-term care, is virtually impractical unless government action is taken on the revenue side. Broadly tax reform has a social cap and will reduce social rights, this will show up in the medium term. Let me tell you why. In 2023, the European Commission will require a balance of public finances. And the price of money in financial markets will, of course, increase with a smaller printing of money, and savings will have to begin. However, when it starts to save, we will not save on NATO, this is the first law that Mr. Gardener wrote for the purchase of weapons; but we will start saving on the old experience of this country in matters of necessity, that is, investments in health care, pensions, social benefits. This is how it started when the crisis occurred in 2010 and 2014. That is why we in Levica have practically highlighted, and I think that other colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me are also the need to provide financial foundations. And I would say this, the fifth paragraph of Article 2 provides that the financial resources shall be allocated to the primary level. Therefore, the area covering 80% of all health problems is covered by only 2.75% of total investment. Primary level, these are health homes. At the same time, the government says family medicine provides 80% of all health problems to the population. Why does the government not specify this point, which is correct, by investing in the primary health level? As my colleague Jani, Ljubljana, said before, Maribor has a lot in the budget, you will ensure that. What about the other small congregations? Are we going to have primary health care and family doctors locked up there? And I would also say this, you also wrote down or wrote down a lawmaker who was dealt with by the government before he went into treatment, that an important part of the financial means is also spent in the form of long-term investments in health systems that will address the challenges of the future and possible future outbreaks of infectious diseases. Listen, that's arrogant, considering that there's a lot of investment in secondary and tertiary, not primary, as I said at the beginning. While we know that during the epidemic, the primacy has carried out the largest part of the covid entry point business or the organisation of funding. And I'd like to conclude with this. A colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party, who had previously represented the position, said well. The use of equipment in our public health system is 80%, similar to the needs of health services, which also require other spatial and equipment conditions. And Mrs Forte, the Secretary of State, said finely the last time we discussed the proposal for the Law on the Complementation of Health Care and Health Insurance, proposed by Levica and proposed a budget provision for financing healthcare in Slovenia, said – the premises and equipment, if I look at them today, are the same, unchanged as they were 30 years ago or as long as I was educated. That's right. That's a very big bite. Therefore, once again, we support this law, but we call on the preparers – lay real foundations for it. And above all, there's something else we've warned Mrs. Forte. All these rooms and equipment will eventually need a staff to work inside, and that is what money is needed, that is, money for personnel in the public health system, where the number of teams must certainly be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Get ready for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Yes, it is very difficult to fight such a good rhetoric as Jani Möderndorfer in this National Assembly. But it is important to be aware that people will live well if we politicians do well and do not speak well. And please, respectable citizens and citizens, don't forget that. And I'm sure of one more thing. If such a Member had been given scissors and linen in his hands, nothing would have changed in the ten years of health care. The only thing that would change is that Member Jani Möderndorfer would replace five parties. We have before us the law we have drawn up in this government, and this law will for the first time in thirty years provide funds for Slovenian health care. We go from words to actions, because only actions count in this country and not your flossules and beautiful words, populism. Only acts count and nothing else. And the epidemic, laugh, but the epidemic has shown all the misery of the health system. Let us ask ourselves who has always been in power for the past 20 years and never done anything wrong. Let's ask ourselves who it was. You probably have the highest responsibility for the situation also in the healthcare system, in general. I wonder why you didn't do all this when you had scissors and linen in your hands. Why didn't you? And today you've eaten the whole mind of this world. With all due respect, I won't be misunderstood. I suggest that citizens ask themselves why today is what it is. And when I heard the apostle Dejan the Jew, also a great rhetoricalist, an excellent speaker, who says he is a Premier messenger. And how are we going to adapt to the Murska Sobota hospital just one department? Ambassador Dejan Židan has also been an All-Slovenian Member for many years. What did you do in your mandate? Tell me how many hospitals you built when you had scissors and canvas in your hands. Just answer that. Only actions count, not your words. Today's law removes the situation and provides funds for the next ten years. We're up to two billion dollars for that. We're charging two billion for a state of emergency. We should have done that a long time ago. We should have done this years ago. And so the epidemic showed the state of our health. Investments will, of course, be all over Slovenia when we like to talk about decentralisation. Investments are planned for the Ljubljana and Maribor University Clinical Centres, amounting to EUR 763 million. Undernourished UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor. And why are you fed? Because all this time he's been following money to those who are selling medical equipment, and because all this time he hasn't been following the patient; and that's the rakrana of our health care. That is why there is a situation like this, and many in this Chamber have now looked away. And this is where millions and millions have run out. And all past governments are responsible for this, all past governments, from first to last. And we are also doing this in this government so that pre-payments in health care will no longer come as before. Now add up, fellow citizens, add up 1 plus 1 and you'll understand why it's falling so much across this government, why it's been falling so much lately after us coalition MPs. Because we're doing a bad job. I don't think so. Because if they did me wrong, they'd leave us alone, doing what's wrong. Probably because we're doing good, that's why he's flying after us so much. Because we are thinking in the long run, because as it has been, it can no longer be. And that's why we're spending money on health care. To benefit our citizens and citizens. That's why. Let's keep going. Investments are also provided for general hospitals, nursing hospitals and nursing homes. We're making $557 million for this. Special hospitals, I can also list them – URI Soča, then we have Šentvid at the Stična, Oncological Institute, Clinic Golnik, Hospital Topolšica, Ortopedska Hospital Valdoltra, Hospital Sežana. Investments are also provided for the Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik and Ljubljana, the maternity hospital in Kranj and Postojna. Medical activity at primary level – 50 million is earmarked for this. National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, National Institute for Public Health and Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine – 33 million. We also aim at higher education institutions, the Single Master's Programme of Medicine, Dental Medicine and Pharmacy, and related study and research activities, as well as other secondary schools, higher vocational schools and higher education institutions in the field of health. We are earmarking two billion for Slovenian health care. Now I've read it very quickly. And if anyone is interested, I can also post it on my Facebook page, where you can also read it in more detail. And if today everything will be as it must be, if there is any other responsibility in this country or in this hall, I sincerely hope that we will all support it today, unanimously. I hope that we are all aware that the adoption of this Health Investment Act is an undertaking for all future governments, regardless of who will be in power for the next ten years. This is a commitment for all the following governments, but it's in the power of the left, the right, the middle, it doesn't matter. And this commitment will have to be respected. That means there'll be less money for sewerage for some soft studies. This means that money will go into the walls, in that people can use it, because from soft studies – we know what it is. And that's why Jani Möderndorfer, our Member, is unhappy. He himself said he was unhappy because we made a commitment that no government would think of putting money where our citizens needed it most at the moment. And whoever's in power is going to have to give that money exclusively because it's supposed to invest in health care. But I have now heard in the debate that the opposition member says he cannot support this law. Why not? Let me tell you one simple reason. Give me one wise reason why an opposition member of this marriage cannot support this. I just can't understand it. And when we listened some time ago also in this hall to the obvious that we were putting money into the army and not into health care; now we are answering you with our actions. You know, there was a lot of talk about putting 780 million in the army. This came mainly from the Left. But the truth, of course, is quite different. According to Sharča's government, they would have spent 480 million in the military. So we would give only another 50 million a year, roughly it's together, let's say over the thumb, 300 million in six years extra for the army. Now, today, at this point, we put six to seven times more into health care. And don't manipulate numbers and turn them into your own good. 300 million additional for the military and poor two billion, 1.9 billion in Slovenian health care additional. That's a fact, and that's the truth, but everything else is a delusion, and you're driving the water to your mill. I believe that it falls to fertile ground when a member of the Left says – let's put more money into health care instead of into the military. But who doesn't want to hear it because it sounds very good; but of course the reality is different. In Slovenian health care, as I said, we are putting down 2 billion euros and this is not a collection of political points, this is our job. This is a job for our citizens, our citizens, it's a job for people. These are investments for them, to build hospitals in this country, to build homes for the elderly, to build schools, to help co-finance schools and kindergartens across Slovenia. For the first time in ten years, we spend 115 million on kindergartens and schools to help people, as we helped them in the PKP packages, to help municipalities, to raise averages for them, to build roads, to eliminate injustices for our weakest citizens, is said to be disabled, blind people, people with special needs, to introduce free parental accommodation in hospitals, and also to offer them hospital compensation for income loss to raise pensions. This is our job to help the economy. This is our job, and this is not a collection of political points. Finally, our work is also to help exhausted Slovenian health care and to devote 2 billion euros of money to this health care in the next ten years. And to conclude. In life, they count only actions and not nice words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the word that this young man spoke on the other side. You know, public health hasn't called in this epidemic, public health has saved us in this epidemic. A bad government and everyone you support has been kneeled down. And you are trying to fix this today by trying — if you do not fear and withdraw it by attaching a point — to adopt a law that allows for a direct transition to dictatorship. We can only thank the public health department. Thank you for being here, thank you for taking over patients who did not want to be taken over by those who are part of private health care! They were taken over by public health. And there's something else I'd like to tell you. One more thing. I have two minutes. Can you wait? Thank you. Second of all, it is true, it was underinvested in the past. Saving, saving, saving anywhere where it was necessary to invest in public goods. This is now being corrected, but with the accepted paper today or in the coming months, only paper is being accepted and the money will have to be provided. And it was invested all over Slovenia, but I still did not get an answer, who wrote in government cabinets specific words, concrete projects in this paper that is before us; and why the hospital Rakičan is mentioned only for adaptation. I looked at the document you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, and I can't find it. Maybe I'm not looking well because I've looked fast, because otherwise a person can't be here on a computer that isn't a computer, it's a cell phone. But someone's gonna have to answer that. Why is my Rakić, all the other hospitals are, and all we have is adaptation? Was this a call to your cabinets; was there a serious paper in the background that allows for serious development, a ten-year development of Slovenian health care? As a Member, I have the right to this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. I'll allow you to do that. Here you go, Mr. Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you so much for letting me speak again. Neither did I get an answer and my question was: How many hospitals did you put in the SD client; in the last twenty years have you been in power for fourteen years? How many hospitals does it cost to have scissors and a canvas in your hands? Please, if you can answer that. And don't give me up frames, give me a frame. You're talking about dictatorship. What kind of Member is he who builds his political path on his relationship with the President of the Government?Oh, my God! I'm going to build my political path on what I'm going to do for people, because that's what we count on and not a nice word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. President, I think that today, in a way, this debate, regardless of what the views were, has been in some constructive spirit; but now some MEPs have taken a step too far. That someone in this national council is saying that this government is establishing a dictatorship, but that is far too far away. We have lived in dictatorship, and to many this dictatorship has had a fatal impact on life. And I think there's no room in this temple of democracy for such expressions, especially because I'm very afraid of it. In fact, people who read a dictatorship to others worship dictators themselves. And I'm actually afraid that we're really going to come back to where we came from, but not because of those who tell us, but because of those who actually call it that. I would really ask that we avoid a vocabulary like dictatorship in the future and so on. Thank God, we have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, thank God, we have a democratic system so far and let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you for your proposal. Indeed, I, my fellow Members and colleagues, ask us to be patient, be respectful to one another, because this image is also mirrored outside Parliament. Procedurally, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	It will be very short, Mr Vice President. I ask that you prevent me from being charged through procedural motions. We weren't really in communism, we were in socialism, and that's a million years away from dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I will now give my word to the government's representative. Mag. Robert Chugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Židan, Murska Sobota Hospital is one of the most important hospitals in the region that covers it. Now you're talking about one project that's just written in there, and I'm going to point it out again. The law that we will and you will adopt will take into account the same regional needs of all hospitals and will build on this matter. Even Mr. Brickler. As to where we came from? A study was carried out at the Ministry of Health – the establishment of regional hospitals. Unfortunately, this study is somewhat outdated and we will update it, we have a plan somewhere by the end of September, which will show what are the real needs for the development of all regional hospitals and of all other hospitals that come under this law. We have several documents at the Ministry of Health which were the basis of this law; however, needs will still have to be determined and will be determined in the future. Because we need to be aware that the needs of the Slovenian population today are such, they can be different in 10 years, or they can be different in 5 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Get Anja Bah Žibert ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	President, thank you for your word. Hello, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I like something about this debate today, that we have at last only found socially that the health system is malnourished and that something has to be done here. How, in what way, we do not have a basis for what these investments are now listed as being the sum of investments. There's a strategy I'm missing from behind. The resolution on the national healthcare plan 2016-2025 has only four years ahead of it, but it is ten years, so we cannot build on it, something is not going together. After all these high - flying words, which we have also heard on one side, and also the sermon – it is your fault, it is their fault. For the past twenty years, I will point out again, it has been in power for ten years, led by the coalition's government; and those who are in opposition for seven years, count. Yes, SMC twice, and Janša rules in between, and now this one, add up. If you can't count, I'll text you, look at the program. No, because it sucks, we've all been saving on health care, or intentionally or unintentionally, it's a poor health system. Whether we have been building so that privacy can develop more, or whether it is not essential that we creak at the wrong ends. I would say mainly that I miss it when we define ourselves to set up this health system strategy. First, we need to know what the values are. I think we all know, we keep talking about values – accessible public health, these are values. The mission is clear. Unlike some who say that health care wouldn't be in institutions, but economic organizations, it's a crazy idea. See what the Act on Economic Companies says: The purpose of the economic organisation is to create profits. Clear and loud, he doesn't say anything else. That's the purpose. And the purpose of health care cannot be to make a profit, but it is to create health, national, people, opportunities. And this is health, so health is different. But in health care it is also necessary to manage because health has its services, someone is paying for these services, just as long as this is resolved in a non-market way, i.e. planned, through the public, because this has proved to be much more rational throughout the world than market organisation. I'll say it again, America gives me 17%, below 8%. America has worse health outcomes than we do, and once it has higher national income per capita. So our health care, when it's so nourished, has been incredibly good and done. That's why we don't talk. We have top-notch experts, we have dedicated sisters, one bunch of things, but this health care doesn't just need walls, let's remember, not just personnel, nurses, doctors; it needs good organization. The Public Health Agency, again, will tell us when we were in UKC Maribor with the Health Committee, the fine director of UKC told us that they stop operations in September, if they do not have the money provided for in advance, that is what is planned. And the services were not provided, even though there were doctors, operating rooms, hospital beds. They were capacities and were not used because of a stupid or extremely irrational system of thinking and approach. And [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's okay. It's just not changed yet. To tell you the other thing, we can't even, look, my dear girl, I've been screwing the company the whole time, and I know what that means and what it means to finish the construction. This money, as my colleague says, to give it -- our government gives, gives, gives. Whose money is he giving, please? Whose money does he give? He's gone. We're borrowing everything. We're going into a hole that's not taking us anywhere. Right, it's about time, but this hole's gonna have to be covered sooner or later. We need to know how much we're giving. And without one clear vision, whose values, what the mission is, what the vision of health is. In the meantime, we need to have objectives with strategies on how to achieve these intermediate objectives, from point to point. Who is the bearer, how, when, in time, we know how to follow, otherwise we can't come anywhere. And then tactics at the end, which is a planned action to achieve a certain goal. That this plan is ahead of us, I see it immediately, so it is before us, because Europe has kicked us to do it, because in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, Europe has made clear how much for health, for social and other things. When we gave the first plan for recovery and resistance, we were firmly rejected because it sucked. And we're in this plan, which is now, even what we've put together some plans, and that's part of it, because you have to show something that you're going to do, even though there's no strategy at all, there's no strategic plan, there's no values, there's no one, there's no third. She kicked us, and thank God she kicked us, that at least something came up, that we had something to discuss. I think that these investments — not exactly this one, because this will have to be reconsidered — are the real thing, because we have to, if we have 80 percent of the equipment written off. I'm talking more about equipment, say. But after all, you have to complete the construction, and this will have to be made out of the state budget, as you clearly stated, by the Secretary of State. That's not gonna work without it. Where are we going to get it in the state budget? By giving tax exemptions, as we have heard today. Tax breaks. I don't know. That is, if I imagine home, we're in an old house, and we'll deal with our wife and family, and we'll rebuild the house, and we'll respect it. But the wife won't have to go to work anymore. We'll do one salary, not two. You can't imagine that. You can't. You have to invest. You have to get the money. And we do this -- the wife won't be employed, she won't be paying, and the kids, pardon me, I'm out. That's not working. That's not working. We need to know that values, especially in health care, are the ethical basis for action. This vision and mission must set a course. The strategy with intermediate objectives must, however, be as it is being achieved. And that's where we'll know where to put the funds and what needs to be done. Is that, as far as anyone has mentioned, I think that Möderndorfer mentioned the former Minister of Health of Marusic that we need five hospitals. I don't know. I'm not even going to that. When I listened to the listing today, where everything will be invested in the same investment, it doesn't matter to me, it's more professional, let them deal. But I'll tell you, if we're going to go anywhere, we're going to have to change the Public Health Insurance Act, because we're going to have to deploy our forces differently, not having one and the same, and having those norms and their plans. It doesn't work that way. It doesn't work because it doesn't work. On the other hand, the Law on Institutions will have to be changed because the Director I have experience, I looked at it when I left Metropolis, they wanted me at Izola Hospital. [[…]] And I went to the system to see what powers I could do; and after seeing that I had such powers, I said — under such conditions I did not hope to run a hospital. I don't hope to run any organizations because they don't have the authority. You don't have free hands, you're stuck in everything. Also with this insurance company, as I mentioned in the case. How did our colleague who ran Izola Hospital get better numbers? So he cut that they didn't provide those services that weren't paid. Simple. It is also necessary to manage hospitals, health homes, and we need this master to be done by them and, on the other hand, what they do must be paid through a health insurance system. And it has to be rationally organised. But not by making it impossible for us to rationalize and do good work in hospitals and health homes and what I know. Some people think it's even nice because we're opening up space for a private initiative because private is good, public is not good, although it's perfectly clear that public health is implicitly better. I'm for this extra investment, I am, I just need to thoroughly overwind it. Without some strategic plan for the decade, it's totally unreal work, now I seriously say, totally unreal work. This needs to be taken seriously, planned with all the topics, including organizational receptions, here we are most screwed up, I tell you. As I saw, I was once in the waiting room in Isola. I was waiting in the waiting room, where I was all alone, and the waiting room was 30 square meters. Something was irrationally done. So you have to be careful, master what you do, how you do it, for as much money as you can. And the structure has to be closed, remember. Whoever builds quickly, if all things are done, is cheap; but if you delay the years, years, years, and years, the Oncology Institute, second, third, to make your heart ache, the walls stand and fall. It's an unserious project takeover, and it's a national one. The health system is such a serious system that it should not be without it. And if we don't give the heads of the organizational units, whether it's the health department or the hospital directors, they have to be able to work. If we don't give them authority, they can't even be responsible. And as we've seen, as some hospital directors have been changing around here, they haven't actually felt responsible, because they haven't paid them a favor if they've done too much. One of the reasons. And we usually worked on putting a good doctor in the principal's seat and getting a bad director. For the director, to lead the organization requires other knowledge, not knowledge of the human body, organs and so on. I place it on my heart, the banks here you are an interlocutor or the Ministry of Health, including the current government, to prepare this matter, not as Reberšek said – a soft study. Without studies, no one moves if you don't study. Small companies plan their future ten years ahead of time, which would not be one health system. It's got to be, or we lose everything. And if you don't actually have a vision set, you can't have goals and strategies. It's not working. You just can't do that. The structure is designed that way, and that's how all successful companies do it. They cannot without having no values, missions, visions and intermediate objectives and strategies. And then there's an action plan, and that's on the tactical level what to do at some point. And to go back, it seems to me that the number is right. Now I'll say it very carefully. I think if we increase this, this means that investments in health are increasing by 0.7%. That's how I did the math. By 0.7%, we are increasing and approaching, and by almost a percentage, we are closer to the European average, which would be normal, about 10%. Let us think this way and try to stand together and do this in the right way. Now I have a feeling that this was done by force because, thank God, Europe kicked us to do it. And that it was also made a little populism, on the soul of the electorate. Here, we are the first, as the colleague says, but we are the first to put into health care. We're the first. We haven't given anything yet. What did we give you? But let's do it in the right direction. As my colleague Möderndorfer warmly addressed you, so did I, Secretary of State. As I listened to you today, your words were true to me. And let us understand that the members of the opposition also know something and we can make some useful proposal. And I would really suggest that we try this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	President, thank you so much for your word. In fact, it seems to me that today we have to direct our debate towards the citizens, to devote it to the citizens, and that is why my introduction is next. Respectable citizens and citizens, at last! Finally, we have seen something that we have been talking about for years, and nothing is done, and today is the first step ahead. In short, for the first time in history, we will adopt a law that will invest in our health care or spend about 2 billion. It's about our health care. Of course, I listened to opposition MPs or Members, Members of Parliament have not discussed anything yet today, and it was very interesting to see how the five veins were looking for arguments to try to break this law or minimize it. You can't take him. You can't minimize it, spit it out even less, because it's about the money that goes into our health care. The other thing that seems very important to me in this law is that the houses of cards that have constantly been destroyed by this government or this coalition have also been destroyed by public health. It's public health, folks, and we're investing in public health. But we can talk about what we've been doing all these years, and we know what we've been doing. They're fighting a little bit against the data we have. Maybe for the introduction of some important data. On average, the EU spends about EUR 2 000 887 per capita on health care. Data for Slovenia are significantly lower, around EUR 2 000 per capita. You can see here how much we spent for our health care. When we talk about our human resources structure, we often talk about how important and good the human resources structure we have in the area of health. True, but they're also just people and they have their limitations. Therefore, it is also important to have 3.2 doctors per thousand people in Slovenia, while Austria, for example, has 5.2 doctors per thousand inhabitants. We can actually talk about good staffing, but it's not enough. These people can do as much as they can. Unfortunately, the data also shows that doctors are getting more and more ill, as well as the shorter life span, and the law in front of us is responsible for all of this. Earlier it was said that not everything is in the walls, and organization is also important. Absolutely, but it's not possible to organize without working conditions. You can't organize anything in an empty operating room. They can all throw themselves at the patient together, give him artificial breathing, but without suitable equipment and without suitable space, unfortunately, the help will not succeed for much longer or eventually succeed. It is also very important that around 81% of equipment was amortised in 2019. You know what 81% is. And with all the data I've told you, because this is back data, our health system is still facing coronaryism. You can think, with all this really alarming data, our health system has survived practically three waves of coronary disease, much more successfully than some countries that are significantly more developed than Slovenia, which needed foreign assistance or had to drive patients abroad. Slovenia has endured, endured its health system, or endured by healthcare professionals. Now is the time to stop, of course, only once we are grateful to them, but to start investing something in this system in order to make it work better; and that is why today is going on. Two billion. Some people said there was no money for that. The Secretary of State said well, half a billion more than half a billion is already provided from the so-called European funds. Earlier, Mr Starović had said – yes, yes, we were kicked by Europe. It won't be that easy. Their minister was in charge of drawing on European funds, and he did very little at the time, and European funds need to know how to draw and Slovenia has not always been the most successful. I believe that it is under this government — and this is shown by the data — that pumping has improved significantly. True, money will also have to be made from the budget. However, whenever we adopted the budget, I said the following. Priority, budget must be or is a matter of priority. I am pleased that this government also gives health care among the priorities in a very high place, one of the highest, and so is the case. Because decades of non-investment in this system have shown their own and the fact is that, of course, today we can confuse ourselves with some populist expressions, such as: you have proposed too little in this hospital, this hospital is not mentioned at all, the other hospital is always given something, and this is not. I don't think we can do that, because that's how the children go in the sandbox. I think we need to talk about what this law is actually about in general. In general, it brings improvements to the area across Slovenia. It doesn't bring all the solutions, of course not. I think the Secretary of State said earlier that we would need almost once more money. But look, if we are now able to spend this money properly and wisely, the situation will improve significantly. And it's not a fraction that we might be able to add some other things in the future and improve the situation, but it's important to start. And this law is an important beginning in this area. Of course, there has been a lot of confusion, but I think we will take an important step with these measures or with these guidelines. Second, it is not the only law we have adopted in these days that somehow improves the picture in the field of health. It is important to recall once again the law on emergency measures in Slovenian health care, which also greatly helps to improve the personnel picture. We've been talking about waiting species for years. All we talked about was that every year we found that there were more people in waiting lines. In fact, there were no measures. But if they were, they were unsuccessful. The Law on emergency measures in the field of health care, and also this gives an important aspect both in the field of primary health care and also the emphasis on so-called family medicine specialisation. That's not true. Earlier, it was said that we were only dealing with increasing specialization invitations. That's not true. It is in the area of family specialisation with financial inputs that we are trying to solve or allow a few more medical students to decide on this specialisation. We've taken an important step in clinical psychologists. I'm gonna stop here for a while. If I'm in pain of populism, it's the most painful thing in the field of mental health, because it's the easiest place to manipulate. It's about people who have problems in an area that's still very stigmatized. And I'm popular in this area, sorry, it's turning to me. And now I'm going to give you one piece of information. In 2017, I already asked the then Minister, when, however, in Slovenia, respectable, we will get the Child Psychiatric Unit. I asked this question in 2017 because it was not there at the time. It is right that everyone knows that we see what kind of health system we have and what we have done for him. Children were hospitalized together with adults. Along with adults in the same rooms. I'm not going to tell you what was going on, but these kids sometimes came from hospital treatment in other areas that were essentially affected. It's not simple stuff. In 2019, respected, two years later we received a child psych ward. This isn't about some big number. We only needed two years for one psych ward. Today, however, we have things here for a period of ten years that will substantially change or take steps in many areas, including in the field of psychiatry, and it is inside. The area of primary health care, including specialized hospital, general hospital, both UKCs. There's a huge number of areas where things are going to work out. Digitalization, education, human resources policy, many things in this law. And we're dealing with where we get the money. In the budget. And where are we gonna take it? Excuse me, SD Member, what you're allowed to say right now is the President, and that's what I'm asking you to warn him, because I'm not stupid. [[…]] And that I am lacking in my mind, I will not be told by the Member. [[advertising from the hall]] There's a Member behind you. And the fact that someone is allowed to, don't get carried away now, please don't let that happen again, because we're going to meet somewhere else for this kind of thing. [[…]] You're going too far. Yeah, sure, nice, great manners. And that says the most about you and the client you belong to. In short, no, I'm not stupid, and I'm very happy to be able to talk today about these concrete measures that we're doing in the field of health. And let me say some other things that I think are very important here. It has been said, if I am not mistaken, that the Secretary of State could still get something from European funds and around 150 million would probably need it from the budget. I think that this money can absolutely win with priorities, as I said, and that too much money in this country is about things that are not so crucial. I believe everyone wants their piece, everyone deserves their piece of pot or bread, but the fact is, we're gonna have to set priorities in the country. And I think that if we put health care on one of the highest levels, it's very important. To conclude, I might say the following, which seems very important to me. One of the Members said that this law was a matter of financial hooliganism. I think someone who thinks that money that goes towards improving health care means financial hooliganism has to actually imagine. And I hope that citizens and citizens have also heard that, especially those in waiting lines who are fighting day after day with their health. And they've heard that someone thinks that, I don't know, financial hooliganism that we're going to build individual hospitals, rebuild certain departments, help with human resources policy to make it better. Then it's a bad name for this country. That's the end of it. We already have 200 cases of delta versions in Slovenia. This number is likely to grow rapidly, even if suddenly we can no longer trace the origin. Therefore, my call – and this call will always be, whenever I have a debate on health care – let us also help healthcare professionals in this way to vaccine. Let us help ourselves and others in this way to get through the next wave, if it is – and shows as it will be – that is also what international experts say – to come as easily as possible. Let's vaccinate ourselves and get smart in the head. Let's not inherit speculation. I believe that opinions can be different, but vaccination is still the best guarantee to combat this insurmountable disease. So much for the end. Presidents, I am asking you to protect me in the future from Members who think I am limited in my mind, because this is a little too much. Mr. Sonibo, you know, different indicators are about some intelligence, and one of them is also emotional empathy. I have it, so I forgive you for such nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. We are enacting legislation in the National Assembly, and we must be persuaded to do so as an executive. This law that we have on the table is, of course, a strong commitment, but I cannot support such an undertaking until I see the budget document as acceptable. And I'll explain later. Certainly, of course, investments in health care amounting to a billion 945 million, as you suggest, as a figure I say, urgently needs health care, there is no dilemma here, a respected secretary of state. Or they are rightly directed in the right direction, as our colleague has pointed out before, and whether they have resources, but these are big questions, because this document is just a document as such and none of it provides. Of course, 30, 40 million, when we invested so far, was not enough, so this occurred within ten years from the 68% write-off of equipment to 85% write-off. This is already a dangerous situation, very dangerous. And in this way, of course, investments are absolutely necessary. Now you are increasing the annual investment in health for eight times, which is of course very good for health. But how resources are provided, and this law does not solve it. If he solves this, prove it to me, prove it to us here today. You speak, of course, five times this value from the budget and the remaining 50 million annually from the European Union, and these are mostly, I see them as loans. Why? I will believe that when the budget documents 2022-2025 are on the table. This period, however, lacks a budget of 5 billion. We are in these days when we have adopted this legislation because taxes on the income of legal persons are being reduced, from income and everything else and from this investment in health care, the military and more. And this bill doesn't sit. You're in the Ministry, you're not in charge of the entire budget, and you've probably been a little cocky to keep this thing going. I'm sorry, I said that on purpose. Only then will these actions, as my colleague Reberšek says, be accomplished. Today they are not yet realized because they are only on paper without a real basis. In 2000, I participated in the preparation of an investment project at home of the elderly in Koroškem, one of these, and also participated in the expansion of the sports hall in our municipality. I had to define all the resources very precisely, and I was rejected once. I remember, Mrs Celarc was at the Ministry of Finance at the time, I picked up the seams and hooves, went home and came home in a month, of course, with the mayors and everyone else; and it was a matter in its place. I also had to calculate the internal rate of return. Here today, there is no basis for the law as such on paper. I'm sorry. You can't convince me. And that is why we cannot adopt such a law in the LMŠ today, because we do not see the real basis for this thing standing, not at all in the long term, as envisaged. When we provided this 40 million extra for the military in the Sharchev government in the budget, there was no crisis, we were not in crisis. And of course, at the time we made this real, because it was a fiscal rule that the budget could do because we went through all these documents and we proved that it was possible. Today, there is an epidemic, ten billion more debt than then, and we're going everywhere, I don't know what additional investment is, and in four years, we're running out of 5 billion. Yeah, what are we gonna do?Oh, my God! I have repeatedly pointed out in the last few days of this National Assembly that we cannot accept something in part if we do not see the whole picture. That's me, baby. This government, as I said, is increasing this debt and without a real basis at ten billion more indebtedness. Once again, Slovenia gives 8% of GDP for health, Austria 10%, Germany 11% overall, but we collect about 2,000 euros per capita, as the colleague has already said, per capita. In Austria, Germany – 4 000 euros and more, half of which are paid for. It is said that Austria, Germany still has 2,000 left for medicines, equipment and investments, and only 1,000 euros. I didn't say anything new, because this is the government we know about, but we're back to where the resources are. The sources are in increasing the productivity of our country, in growth. We are today at 45, 47 000 added value per employee, Austria, Germany – over 90, European Union average – 65. Slovenia's goal, however, is to reach 60,000. And if we reach $60,000, we can also get resources, because these resources from the added value are also the main sources for health care, and we can reach €3,000. And then there'll be more resources. We have to build on it, everything else is paper, and we're not going anywhere, really not. The funds, let me just say, in 2019 – 55 million, 2020 – 42 million, you now have 60 to 65 million to reduce waiting lines, and half of these funds are unused because there are no personnel. Once again, when I've said so many times, why don't we put it in that worn-out equipment, the difference of resources, when it stays, so that we can reduce waiting lines, because now, if this equipment is obsolete, it's useless, we have to send it to other people. Why don't we approach it like that? Here are the solutions where you could be without billions of dollars. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It is the law that will oblige every government to invest in Slovenian health care, so today this law is adopted or we have a first hearing today. That is why it was made, because until now there was no money and there was no commitment of anyone to invest in Slovenian health care. Another time. We don't joke about health either, and we seriously mean when we propose this marriage, because we are aware of where Slovenian health is. Today there were quite a few very clear messages from Members, what is the situation in Slovenian hospitals; and we must all be aware of this together. The situation is not good, the state of the infrastructure is not good, some hospitals are in poor construction, earthquake, fire and so on. I think that we must all be aware of this, and it is only right that we provide Slovenian patients and citizens with normal conditions. Not only the normal conditions, but what we have already said many times also the staff; and this Slovenian staff to be treated by Slovenian healthcare professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Joseph Horvath ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate today and listen to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, I must say that I am pleased with your answers and also with your participation in the debate. I think you can see that you're an operative, that you know things in the field of health. It excites me with some optimism. I hope that this optimism will not otherwise crystallize or turn into something else in a few months. I wish you all of these words, which you have also said today, then you are also actually realizing. But I know you have extremely little time. And since we are talking today about the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021-2031, I must say that in the law itself I see some advantages, but unfortunately I also see some weaknesses. Yes, we absolutely agree, all together in this Chamber, that investments in Slovenian health have been lagging behind, which I am also very concerned about as a citizen, especially when we compare our situation with the European Union, Slovenia is unfortunately below the average of the European Union according to a number of indicators of investment expenditure. As a member of the Health Committee I had the opportunity to see inside UKC Ljubljana, we also looked at the premises of UKC Maribor, unfortunately I was also a UKC Maribor patient many times and the situation is really catastrophic. Yes, like investing in walls, in equipment; indeed, these two hospitals are not the only ones in extremely poor condition. I must say that a colleague of mine who mentioned what is going on in the field of maternity and gynecology, where the situation is such that the woman is completely dehumanized on this visit to the gynecologist, because the equipment is really catastrophic there. I am concerned that this law somehow does not set priorities, what is absolutely necessary, some long-term account. I would like to know on the basis of what assessments you have assessed these values of individual projects as defined in Article 2. How much funding have you spent on both university clinical centres? Are projects already prepared here from behind? What are the values, because this is essential? We need to be aware that today we can talk about one amount, but unfortunately, the material is currently extremely expensive. And if we multiply this times 30%, what's going on in the field today, I don't know where we're going to be with these two billion over a period of ten years. That's why I want to know if you have financial ratings and priorities. Where should we go in first and make changes? What will you do, say, in 2021, what will happen in 2022? That's important to me, because if you don't have investment or this marriage so prepared, then I wonder if these nice numbers that we're talking about today are just going to stay on paper. I must say that I actually rejoice in the law, because in all this history there has been too little to give; but we also know why. There were crises, there was no money, and finally there was a fiscal rule and we had to swim somehow in these frameworks, which we had at last. Today, there was a speech that our public health system abstained under all the alarming conditions we had at the time of the epidemic. Yes, it is true that the public health system abstained because we had good doctors, good medical staff, good support personnel, who did not kneel all this time regardless of the problems they faced. And yes, and this is true, for the first time in history, as Anja said, we would invest €2 billion in public health for a period of ten years. Yeah, but we don't have the resources yet. And these funds will have to be found somewhere. Otherwise, half a million is planned for next year, and I expect this to be so. These numbers do sound extremely nice. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State also mentioned, but if they are realised, this is a big question. And here I fully agree with him, because I don't know where the money will come from, or I sincerely hope that this money will be provided, no matter what kind of government will be in power in the future. And this is one step forward, because, as we said, in the equipment that really is in the hospitals in an extremely bad state, it wasn't invested. The equipment is amortised according to some data 85 %, including the buildings are amortised. At the press conference, Minister Poklukar said, quote: “We are planning to modernise and optimize the health system, modernise obsolete infrastructure, increase bed facilities, reduce the fragmentation of support activities and manage high running maintenance costs.” I can absolutely agree with this statement, but in this statement I am missing – we will not benefit from an increase in bed capacity if we fail to ensure an adequate number of sufficient staff and adequate funding to ensure safe and quality health care. Why am I stating funding? When we visited UKC Maribor, we were told clearly what was going on. They would perform operations, intervene, their program would expire in September, they had 100%, then they would pull up to 120%, and they just can't. Then it's October, November, December, they're in the air. There's just no capacity. We'd love to work, but there's no money. You can't work in red numbers indefinitely, because health personnel, support staff, have to pay. Costs are coming. I really miss the Minister here not saying that there will also be a need to strengthen the human resources potential. He also said that “the clinic centres are the pillar of the Slovenian medical profession and it is not possible to expect the implementation of new procedures and treatments and new medicines without adequate infrastructure preparation in the coming years. The infrastructure at each step is spent to the extent that it is difficult to provide safe treatment.” I agree with that, too, but safe treatment has been provided for the entire situation. Indeed, the level of safe treatment can also be raised with all these investments. However, I have to touch on the fact that there is a growing need for a thorough overhaul of the network of public health institutions. The network has not been altered or optimized for more than 30 years. And that is what you have already said today that you are also concerned about, and it is expected that something will be done in this area. You said that hospitals will do what regional people need and that the network will adapt to the needs of the Slovenian population. I am absolutely aware that all the hospitals in Slovenia we have will not be able to provide all the specialist services and it will be necessary to specialize in hospitals if we want to optimize their operations, because this is the only way we can provide sufficient quality healthcare for patients. In the law we have, Article 2 is the most financially valued in nine points. It also states in point 8 that we will provide these personnel, which we are talking about being provided additionally, by higher education institutions, for a single Master's programme of Medicine, Dental Medicine and Pharmacy and related study and research activities. And even in today's debate there was a speech that it is necessary and you want Slovenian staff in hospitals, in health institutions. I absolutely agree with this and also support dental medicine. Only today do we know what happens to dental medicine. Everyone's in private, they're all private to express themselves correctly; and that's what I'm worried about. [[…]] We will now invest in this and then we will not be able to keep them in our public health system. Here you need a thorough consideration of how to keep it. And if I just look at Maribor. Actually, I come from these ends. There's a lot of footage going abroad, Austria's close, they're going to Graz. The financial evaluation of the healthcare staff will have to be changed somehow, otherwise nothing will help us if we invest today, and then the frame will somehow go away. Then, too, the number of specializations signed has already increased years ago, but cities remain empty. I think you are aware of this, and there will be a need to improve both the conditions of work, of course the conditions of work with appropriate, appropriate infrastructure and equipment; unfortunately, we will also have to proceed to a proper pay policy for both the healthcare staff and the support staff. I always like to mention this support staff, the support staff. Without this frame, it is not possible, because one doctor without a nurse cannot and also a nurse and a doctor cannot work if they do not have a regular working room. Who arranges the work space? Cleaner. At least it's in the public health system. In private, and I'll tell you, it's a little different. In private, even nurses clean everything else that goes with it, plus sanitation. In fact, there is no guarantee of privacy; there are many such, of course there are exceptions that I will not do wrong to anyone. There will be a lot of work to be done in this area. Investing alone and only in the walls will not bring this effect that we want. We will absolutely have to invest in the walls, in the equipment, in the personnel and also in the excellent or better organisation of the work itself. And we're back on that law about institutions that we can't change yet. I think we're going to have to take a step forward here and also do it to make it right, just like we're all imagining together. But for now, I'm gonna end up in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Yes, as the Ministry of Health is aware and Mr Starović is also aware, and Mr Lenart has been mentioned, of course building without funding is not possible. We're well aware of that because if there's no money, then you have nothing to do. But the Ministry of Health is because money is provided and money is provided through European funds, the RRF project, has started to implement those investments that are covered by money. These investments, which are included in these important projects, are also a priority of Slovenian health care. So we're working on these projects. If we want to build them by 2023 or implement them as well as the RRF, which is until 2026, these investments need to be planned now and immediately. And that's what we're doing now, and these investments will be made. Other investments that – you asked how we assessed them – I fully agree with you. At present, construction is an extremely difficult time, but I am sure that there will also be better times in construction and that especially health care, which will be a major investment in the market, will be interested in healthcare providers to perform at appropriate prices. How did we assess our investments? In view of the current prices, the current prices that appeared on the market are slightly more expensive than they were even one year ago. But that was the main number, how we assessed it. First, we do things that are covered by financial resources. The law that will, and I believe that it will, will allow us to start making other investments. It'll be a big deal for the ministry as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State! I will start with human rights, although some say we must not rank them, but today I have seen that we all somehow advocate that health is our greatest value and that human right to health and to life is in fact the most important thing. Of course, others are equally important, but how will you protest against the government if you are sick? How will you protest against the government if you're dead because of a poor health system? Some of you have pointed out in this law that there is a lack of law that does not include resources. No one asked when we were drastically raising money, money social assistance, to be more accurate. Money Social Security. And I'm not saying we picked it up too much, so it won't be a mistake. We haven't picked it up too much, it's still too low, but we can't do it anymore. It is true that we have achieved one climate in society when we find that it is not worth doing in Slovenia. That's when no one asked where we were going to take it. If someone wants us to write resources here – yes, the resources are in the budget. Should we write that the sources of income are income?Oh, my God! That wouldn't be right, but the law is the law. The laws are adopted by the National Assembly and the Government prepares budgets. And if the Members of this composition are not satisfied with the budget, the budget will be returned to the Government and they will say - the laws must be respected. That's the law. I was there when we adopted the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2008-2013. This was a long time ago, in the 2004-2008 mandate. At that time, we wrote that during this period, in this period 2008–13, we will build 12 emergency centres in Slovenia. That wasn't the law, that was the resolution. It didn't work, unfortunately it didn't work, most of it went well, and we also provided huge European funds. Thank God, now the 12th Emergency Center on Ptuj is starting to realize. This was assured by the government when she last visited Podravje. I also agree with those who say that it is necessary to amend the Law on Institutions, that the Director has insufficient powers. Of course, there's still a lot to change. Is it right, colleagues and colleagues, to hear today that there are quite a few strong suppliers sitting in the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia? Is that okay? It's not okay. And that is what we want to fix in this mandate. I believe and count on the help of the opposition. Every bad thing brings something good. Covid-19 is a very bad thing. Very bad. Because it's good, but it's that this epidemic has actually exposed the weaknesses of all our subsystems. We're talking about health today. I agree with everyone who warns you about certain health care establishments, UKC Ljubljana is 46 years old. I was lying there two years ago, the doctor told me to lie on the first bed. It's not good, even if you're in surgery on your spine. Which means we neglected health care, so there was a lot of flaws at the time of the epidemic. But smart politics detects them and saves them. Also at European level. And the good thing about this weakness is, of course, the next generation of the EU. On 1 July, the European Commission approved the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan of 2 billion and a half. And here we also find the means to modernise our health system. And it is a good plan, although some have already buried it in February, although the regulation was not adopted in the European Parliament until 9 March. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said, quote: "Today the European Commission has given a green light to Slovenia's recovery and resilience plan." It is still somehow in the health sector, the health segment, the subsystem that we understand the most about recovery and resilience. »The plan combines investments for a green and digital transition with reforms of long-term care, healthcare and pensions for the benefit of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. I am proud,” Ursula von der Leyen, “that with the EUR 2.5 billion provided by Next Generation of the EU, we will contribute to the realization of this plan.” And some other statements, but now it doesn't matter that much. I'm talking about sources because it was so exposed. Of course, there will be no 2 billion in this decade, because this instrument does not last ten years. And when I was already at this time interval, in the event that I said how very wrong we were, governments were wrong to implement in some way the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2008-2013 for five years. Similar situations, some Members, who have been here for a little while, also know the plan to build highways. I know that the pomurska was in the plan in 2013. And then we speeded it up for five years, and we opened it in August 2008. I would not like to discuss regionally now either. And it would be a big mistake if you could now write in the articles of this law detailed investments that will be invested in the ten-year time interval of these two billion. That's not possible. That would be crazy. Let's just see what we can say, and now we're gonna build a new regional hospital in X. Do we even know if the congregation has any spatial plans? And so on and so forth. This cake is very well defined in Article 2 – cake two billion, a little less – and it is specifically mentioned, it is now mentioned if we are looking at the location and only Ljubljana, the University Clinical Centres Ljubljana and Maribor – 736 million. I do not think that any Member will protest if there are 800 million and, of course, more for other purposes. And then there's actually the slices, the software slices of this cake, how this money is going to be directed. Of course, it is clear that we have also taken care of the personnel. All the debates that drew attention to the human resources issue were valuable if I may say so. And we can have gold walls and gold appliances if we don't have trained personnel to do this, and if we don't have enough motivated personnel, read -- well paid enough, or if we have a Slovenian degree in medical school, these or them, pack and go out because they can pay better. We took care of high school here, too. Well, there was a talk about Rakičan, a gym in Rakičan, a medical high school after 60 years, if happiness is nice, she'll finally get her own gym. One thing is, it is normal for the government to adopt an annual plan for these investments, and this annual plan will have to be reflected financially in the annual budget, but otherwise. And besides, the National Assembly will have control. I find this marriage fantastic because it has very few articles, but it says a lot. It's true, I admit, in the coalition we agreed to go to the system funding of public health. We in New Slovenia advocate public health. And because we have had good experience with the law, which has provided sufficient funding for investment in the Slovenian Army, which has been on its knees for several years. More. We thought that a similar law like this would be adopted for investment in Slovenian education, but so far the idea is still in the air, I speak as openly as ever, and after eleven years we have provided about 120 million, so after eleven years of vacuum, the full vacuum needs were now so great that we upgraded 40 million more with about 72 and these funds provided for the kindergarten and primary infrastructure, but today this is not the topic. I find the opinion of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia very relevant to me, where they welcome the system regime by which additional financial resources are provided to the health system in investments, since the latter have been heavily financed and overlooked in the past by the regulator. Mea culpa. The association has also been reminded of the lack of investment in health care for years, leading to the inevitable developmental backlog of Slovenian health institutions. If in 2011 we had 67% of the equipment cancelled in Slovenian hospitals, two thirds of the equipment cancelled, this share increased to 80% in 2020 last year. The consequences are felt by a number of workers working with obsolete equipment in inappropriate situations, especially by people in need of treatment. Will this marriage remain after nine years, after ten years? We don't know. Development is moving awfully fast. Today we're talking about digital drugs, and I'm very fascinated by the contributions of a long time ago by a student of mine who is doing literally miracles today, unfortunately not at home, but in Singapore. I conclude with sincere support and with great satisfaction that we have finally received a law on systemic financing or investment in the Slovenian health system. This will serve our people. And we're here to do good for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to comment at the beginning. A colleague of Muršič as well as Jani explained how young doctors are going abroad. Let me remind you that a few days ago we had to vote on the fact that young experts do not need to have a mentor's time after studying medicine and specialization and are not capable of carrying on and so on. A lot of this nonsense has happened in recent years and, of course, we have problems. We've cut the concessions down to 15 years, and they're wondering if it's even worth investing if after 15 years someone can tell you, but now you can't work anymore; while you've invested something and so on. The opposition is full of ideas about what we should do. Jani would even tear everything down and make new clinical centers and so on. I don't know what he's been doing all this time. You've been in charge for 15 years, or you've been in government for 15 years, and you didn't do it. Even more, there was no idea what to put, where, in health homes, in hospitals, what to do. In the 15 years, only the data, from 2009 to 2020, we have invested 360 million in health care, but we have given 700 million more to NGOs at that time. Yeah, well, then it makes sense that we're missing somewhere and that some things weren't done. I've been a member of the Health Committee for years. During this time we visited hospitals, health homes, various health institutions. There were 101 annexes, things were stalling, someone was happy to put money in his pocket, instead of finishing the work he had taken, and so on. 1.9 billion is now earmarked for public health, for investments in hospitals, so this law guarantees this. I'm saying it's not just for the walls and the building of the walls. I think the bottom line's fine, even though Janie doesn't think so. At the time the hospitals were set up, the situation was different, and thank God that there is room for some reason to do at least this part before we get to some completely new hospitals. But in principle, we have regional representation and it is necessary to upgrade things here, improve them and invest them in the work of doctors and medical personnel under the best conditions. The hospitals must have played a very important role now in the crown, in the epidemic. In fact, the epidemic has shown where we are weak, where things are missing, what we need to invest in. Most of these things we knew, as I said, we visited these institutions and talked to the directors about what they needed. They had been fed before, often exhausted, because years and years had not been invested and maintained as needed in health care. And then, of course, some concessionaires, some private people, have gone too far by the quality of the public health service, which is not good. It is necessary to invest and it is necessary to have a vision. This government has a vision, the European Commission has been reminding us of many shortcomings in all possible areas for years. But one government takes it into our hands and then we make a plan to improve things; one government throws it into a drawer, they promise to fix it, and nothing happens. A colleague from the SAB said that we should have a resolution, a strategy and so on. We had a whole bunch of resolutions and strategies, spending millions of dollars on strategies instead of doing something about that money. Just remember social, soft content, debate on what we need, how we can save long-term care and so on. Expensive for this miracle of money, instead of building five and six houses for that money, it would have some effect on it. One more time. What matters is what you put money into. I don't mind NGOs, but if it's a relationship that we gave NGOs more than we gave to hospitals and health institutions, then it makes sense that we have a problem. And where's the money coming from? We will receive grants from the React, recovery, this has already been said, the entire next generation of the EU, even more money, i.e. $2.1 billion; 3.6 billion as loans. And if you are planning and we also have to plan and we have to send the European Commission among the first, remember that we have had an extraordinary session on the subject of how badly we are preparing and how our plan is not right. And we gave him up among the first and even among the first to get approved because he was good, even though the opposition shouted that everything was wrong. And that's where things are going to draw from. And we already have something, that is, moving the Department of Pulmonary Diseases to UKC Maribor, then additional funds for Negational Hospital Ljubljana, these are all things that have been approved from this address. I don't know if we all live here or we read anything; but it's true that in our media wrinkles you can read a little bit, you have to go all the way to the government. They awarded, I don't know, Negative Hospital Ljubljana 4.5 million, but it's not worth one news on national television. We're going to give 3.6 million dollars to move the pulmonary disease department, and that's not on our television. This is not important for national television. This government sees the whole picture, and that's why it's planning. Of course, this period, which we will adopt today under this law, goes beyond the mandate of this government. The next two governments will have to deal with this, but if we put it in a resolution, as a colleague said, we wrote a lot of things, emergency centres, and then we didn't realize it. However, this law will have to be implemented and other governments will also have to be provided. And they're going to have to decide whether they're going to give this 500 million a year, or whether they're going to give it to NGOs. And if there's a commitment in marriage, they'll have to make it. And it is only right that we finally set the right priorities, not to spread money, but to say that the health system is slowly failing or failing; and now we find 101 problems that we need to solve. Of course I'll support this marriage. I am pleased that the opinion and this vision have prevailed to commit the future governments to the money collected by taxpayers together. For those things that are key to Slovenians and Slovenians, and it is not right that our people are waiting for interventions, that under poor conditions and the same under poor conditions also medical personnel, doctors, nurses and everyone else. That's why people are leaving. They are not always the problem of pay, the problem is organization, the problem is poor conditions and so on. And by means of this law, we will undo and correct certain things, including others, digitisation and so on, and all that may not be done with this law. I will, of course, support the law and suggest that you do the same. And I find it really amazing that someone can even say that they won't support the marriage or that they'll find 101 excuses when they finally say so, but now we're going to invest 10 years and seriously invest in thinking about it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, you mentioned me and thus gave me an opportunity to answer you. For five months, the prime ministers of your coalition's clients led the government. From the age of 20, 10 and five months have been run by the government's presidents of your coalition's parties. This is your coalition when you speak here. If you don't have a relationship with SMC fixed, that's your problem, not mine. It's the other way around. If we're looking at client service, your party president has been leading the government for the last 20 years for six and five months, if I'm counting well. The president of the Social Democrats was half-, three years and three months. I only say this because I keep listening to the impressions on your part, “you have led the last 20 years”. That's not true, half, half. If we're looking at clientele, you're a winner. Perhaps another small correction that is not essential. With this law, so at least the yearbook in the law will deal with the next three governments, not two. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Continue with the debate [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, may I? Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr Only Bevk, to prepare Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I am not as reserved or skeptical of this bill as some of my colleagues and colleagues in the opposition. This law reminds me of another similar law in the field of culture, the Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture adopted by the previous government in this mandate, but we have known it since 1999. Of course, the cultural euro is more than ten times smaller than the proposed law on urgent investments in health care, so that this is not entirely comparable. How the law will be implemented is, however, very comparable, depending on how much funding will be provided in each national budget and whether any additional funding from the European budget will be available. The EUR 943 million is not a small sum, nor for the ten-year period of validity of this law. It is comparable, for example, with the investment in the thermal power plant Šostanj, in TŠ 6, perhaps in part in the second track. The only greater investment, far beyond this sum in Slovenia alone, was, of course, the construction of the highway cross, for which we contributed and raised more than EUR 5 billion during this entire construction period. It is said that this project, which this government has set itself, is very ambitious. As it comes true, we will see through the next governments. For example, the cultural euro law, which we knew from 1999 to 2013, is said to have been implemented for a period of 14 years, was 33%. I hope that this law will be implemented in a higher percentage. I would now like to make one comparison with the construction of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana in the previous country, in the socialist system. I don't know if we're capable of building this big today. Or, one similar cultural project is Cankar's home. We have been talking all the time about the need to build a university library, and we have not been able to do this today. In the previous system, Cankar's home was built in the previous country. Imagine Slovenia today without Cankar's home. This would be a culture without a central cultural institution. And if we compare it to the clinical centre in Ljubljana, which began to build in 1966 and was opened on the day of the Republic, on 29 November 1975. It is said to have been built for almost 10 years, nine years, as much as the period envisaged for the implementation of this law, which we are talking about today. How did they prepare for this construction? In 1960, a project group was appointed. In 1963 a special fund was established for the construction and equipment of this facility. In July 1966 construction began, and, as it is said, the project was completed in 1975. At that time, the project cost 62 billion old dinars. This would be worth €463 million today, according to the methodology of the Statistical Office. However, I do not believe that we would be able to build a new clinical centre today in Ljubljana, with eight floors, with all the infrastructure, for this money. It would be interesting to do one project and assess how much it would cost to build such a new institution as it was built in the 1960s and 1970s. But it's not just about the walls, it's about the frames. What happened when they were building a clinical center? In 1970, clinical hospitals in Ljubljana had about 2 000 800 beds, 2 000 400 employees, including about 250 doctors and 500 nurses. With the new building, hospital capacity increased by nearly a thousand 100 new hospital beds, and the number of employees increased to 3,000 900, including 460 doctors and a thousand 250 nurses. The number of hospitalizations increased from 32,000 in 1968 to 44 thousand in 1975. It is said that the walls must also be followed by the frames, for without the frames this shell will remain less useful and useful than it would otherwise be. But it's not just about the walls, it's not just about the frames, it's about the quality of hospital care. We have a lot of criteria, which institution is good. The number of hospital infections after hospitals, the number of falls from hospital beds, and so on. When I asked about the problem of hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals and in the homes of pensioners almost 20 years ago with a question from the then Minister of Health, Dr. Kebra, about the problem of hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals and in the homes of pensioners, I stated that every year in Slovenia, between 400 and 600 patients died, and the Minister did not dispute that information. Today, this information is probably similar, although there is no accurate statistics as to how many people die at the annual level because of hospital infections in hospitals and in the homes of pensioners. However, I believe that several times more than the number of deaths in traffic accidents. So in addition to the walls, the quality of services in Slovenian hospitals and also in the homes of pensioners who have become some kind of nursing hospital is also important. How I'm going to vote, I haven't made up my mind yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Jožef Lenart, and Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Madam President. Nice greetings to all attending guests from the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Managing health problems is essential and is also one of the priorities of this government and this coalition. However, in Slovenian health care for decades and more, the government has been drying up, or that Slovenian health care has been given too little attention, that there has actually been no attention, namely, finances as should be, we all know, every Member here among us and probably a lot of Slovenian schoolchildren knows this. What does that mean? That the contribution allocated to one person in Slovenia in recent years and decades has been increasingly lower than the cost allocated to other members of the European Union. The difference is significant, in Slovenia there are 2 000 euros per capita per year and on average about 2 000 800 per capita per year. Why was this allowed, why did nothing happen? Perhaps it is necessary to ask the presidents of previous governments. I'm not saying it's all the fault of the heads of government, but we definitely have two former heads of government here today among the Members of Parliament, otherwise they're not in the Chamber. In these parliamentary groups they are indeed against, but it is necessary to say why nothing has been done before and what the programme would be if we now run this government and this ministry. A plan, one way or another, and not just criticism. We know she's been dry in health care for a long time if I put it that way. This was especially observed during the covida-19 epidemic. Regrettably, these claims were even more felt by those affected by this disease, including all those who, due to restrictions and even the incursions of this disease, were actually far longer away or longer than their specialist medical treatments. We are aware of the lack of beds, operating rooms, drastic lack of personnel, equipment consumption, 85% of equipment consumption. It is also known that this cannot be changed overnight and financed overnight and not taken from one budget. From this title also as a real response to this present law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care. I must say, also Minister Poklukar says that this fourth wave is only a question, and a similar opinion was the Regional Director for Europe at the World Health Organisation, who visited Slovenia yesterday. He also agreed with the President of the Republic, Borut Pahor, that this could touch us in the autumn. And then we're all so much more aware of the urgency of this update or I'm going to express the so-called healing of health care so that the healing of health finally begins. The proposal of the Health Investment Act will outline some frameworks, we have heard that it is almost €2 billion, and it will ensure the modernisation and optimization of the health system, the modernisation of obsolete infrastructure, the increase in bed facilities and so on. If I touch anything else, there's been a lot of talk about it and where it's gonna come from. We know that in previous years some money was spent on health care, some millions, and it wasn't exactly billions. But in spite of all this, it is really necessary, and we know that if this goes well over these 10 years, and if we hear the secretary now that about 540 million are guaranteed, there are some initial funds. I believe that we will also be successful in providing funds from other addresses in the future. Or I'll say you're saving yourself. That is to say, if there is a need for real, concrete health reform and investment is to be envisaged, then it must also look at rationalisation in all health matters. I don't think there should be a big problem, and then there will be funding, which is agreed upon. However, this law is a good plan, covering both clinical centres. As the Minister and the Secretariat and the Ministry themselves say, they represent our clinical centres of the Slovenian medical profession's pillar. Without adequate infrastructure preparation in the coming years, new procedures and treatments cannot be expected to be implemented. Thus, if we want to move forward in a modern way with the remainder of the European Union, maintain our health care in good condition, we must also provide infrastructure. And now that I've heard about this relationship, three or four times, I've heard about how well the SD knows how much it invested in UKC Ljubljana and too much in UKC Maribor, it's said, the ratios of 2.2 to 1 somehow – I also know that it wasn't okay. Of course I know it wasn't, but if I touch it now, for the third or fourth time, the SD had the last three governments. Because before that, he touched how much someone was in the government. The last three governments are 11, 12 and 13. When you have a government, of course, you have a word where something is put, what is most urgent. And now we are telling one secretary, who is in office for a year or two, where everything has to be invested, where money is to be provided, and that he should have equal access to these funds for all of Slovenia. I agree that it should also be allocated to the region from which I come, this is Podravska, because there is a need to ensure the same. But I can also see the implications of the fact that it will be shared more fairly. It is also a good point and statement by the Ministry that Slovenian health care needs to be digitised, upgraded and made more rational. So it's a high-current cost management. I will add: controlling the high costs and paying the medical equipment to stop it, and the tools and more. I am happy, it will also be built, as in the plan, in some context, if I say so, the modern emergency centre Ptuj. This will set up the operational blocks and intensive therapy department at General Hospital Ptuj. In the Law on Investing in Slovenian Health, we have renovated laboratories, hospital pharmacies in SB Ptuj and, of course, we have also brought to the conclusion that the minister, who I have to say, has a heart and a hearing for the needs of the population, has satisfied this, has detected these problems and will move this over the coming years. So the government listened, planned. If we somehow put the Slovenian Army in our place by law on investing in the Slovenian Army, we will now also be healthcare. It's easy and I'm happy to support and I'm proud. Health is our greatest fortune. However, please let all who may listen to us be vaccinated because this will help to bring about the health and health of people and, of course, the economy from which the money for health comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic, prepare Ms Moica Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Hello again! I listened to the discussions of my colleagues and also to the reply of the Secretary of State. Let me say that this law on the provision of financial resources for investment in Slovenian health is a good plan. A good plan for future governments as well, and I would not be afraid, because it is written down exactly after years of how funds should be drawn. It seems to me that this is the only stability that can provide publicly accessible health care for all citizens and citizens in the next 10 years. If we didn't have it, if we didn't have it, or if we didn't do it, we'd probably have another set of meetings about how everything is wrong in our health system. But once again, it's a good plan, it knows how it's going to build, it's going to rebuild, and most importantly for me, it's going to work for people. No one's going to be able to take it anywhere, it's going to stay where it's going to be built, and I think it's important. Because we will use it, our friends will use it, and not least our craftsmen will use it. I cannot help but say that, although it has been exposed several times before, it was so vehemently said that it was probably a list of wishes that the ministry put on paper, and of course what is inside that everyone said, listen, and I would need it. I really thank the Secretary of State here, who made it clear that this law is prepared for a resolution on Slovenian health. It seems to me that we have had a lot of discussions in this house on this issue of health, including public debates where we invited all the stakeholders, all the experts who have told us what they need. This has been recorded in the resolution and I am pleased that our government has used this resolution to strengthen Slovenian health care. In all the existing governments in the last 10 years, as far as I have been following politics intensively, I could say, it was just blah, just how we're going to do something, and nothing was really concrete, where we're going to take the money from. We now know how much the state budget must provide and how much European funds will be allocated from the REACT-EU programme or from other European funds to ensure better accessibility to health and, of course, to improve the health situation in Slovenia. When I read what was going to be built, I didn't feel like a hospital was being released. Of course, the law itself does not state which hospitals are covered, but this is explained in the explanation of the articles and also in the objectives pursued by the law. Indeed, what is written will certainly be verifiable in the coming years. If it is clearly written, then those who decide who follow, who actually build, know what and what the goal is to follow. Because the worst and worst thing is what's going on – that money is meant to be, and then we don't know exactly how this money would be spent, and, as I said in my position, we find out a lot of things on the investigative boards, and we're scanning some kind of fictitious accounts, which is supposed to be misused. I think we have taken a step further in this area. I wish, once again, that we would not forget all the investments at the Oncology Institute, I always mention it, the oncology is growing rapidly, the number of patients is growing year after year, and it seems to me that even if we go to the Oncology Institute, it is too small for the scope of the work to be done. There was also a covida epidemic. It seems right for me to look at this too, and I want us to take a step forward in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, Mr Tomaž Lisec is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you. I am pleased that we have before us a law on investment in Slovenian health care. I welcome the systemic approach, this is, of course, the law first, and then budgetary documents, plans and public calls and implementation follow. Any other approach would not be the right one, as we would not actually have a plan to spend money. The funds are large, almost EUR 2 billion, which means that there will be a great deal to be done on the construction work and equipment across Slovenia. As a Ljubljana woman, however, I am particularly pleased that under the first number, i.e. under number one, the university clinical centres Ljubljana and Maribor are listed. The Ljubljana University Clinical Center, which has already been inside, knows that it is awfully outdated, that elevators do not work, that ventilation is nothing and that people are pushed into small rooms where it is difficult to close windows where blinds can't even let go. But it's not the most expensive part, the most expensive part is equipment, of course. The Ljubljana Clinical Centre is a top-level institution that has to deal with very complex health problems, while the city hospital could take over slightly less complicated matters. Ljubljana also needs a city hospital, so I am glad that two general hospitals, nursing hospitals and nursing homes are listed. Ljubljana, of course, also needs a nursing hospital and a nursing home. The old building of the University Clinical Center, which I mentioned, has another problem. I don't think anywhere in the world is going through a medical campus, a medical campus a road. The reserve actually flows through the buildings of the clinical centre and this is totally unacceptable. This transport should be carried out around and the part taken by the clinical centre should be uniform and calm and suitable for both work and care of patients. Where do I get the money? I don't think we've ever wondered where to get the money, when the case was a highway cross or another track, but of course we have to make a plan. This plan is now in this law, and this law will be followed absolutely by an adjustment or preparation of the budget. The budget can be Slovenian, integrated, but it can also be European and both will be combined in this work. But I think it's very important that the government that is going to do this is going to be a good government. I am sure that the investments that were led at the time that he led the government of Janez Janša and when the Slovenian Democratic Party was in the government – this was from 2004 to 2008, four years, from 2012 to 2013, one year, and now a good year and something else, together six years and a little longer – have been well managed. We all remember how many schools were built and renovated during the 2004-2008 term, how many kindergartens and elementary schools were co-financed. Of course, implementation is also important. If you work a coat on a block, you can get it for 180 or 130 thousand, depending on the invitation to tender. The good government is preparing a call for a quality and cost-effective solution. I think that this government really needs to be commended here, and I want this government not only to prepare funds and plans for it, it has time to do so, but also to lead these investments in the next term, so that they are well and well managed. Of course, the order and the fair and efficient management of the taxpayer’s money are not good for anyone because they will not fall any commissions along with or what the colleague mentioned in front of me has gone to some secret account. With the government here today, the guarantee is not only that the funds will be here, but also that the funds will be spent fairly and efficiently. So all congratulations on this marriage. All Slovenians can please us, and as a Ljubljana girl especially because there is actually a very large amount of what needs to be done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues who still insist on saying good-bye to all! When I got to the table of the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031, I thought, here, finally one law where we will all be happy to support it, because not only do we as a policy show that we care very much about Slovenian health, especially with this law will all our residents and residents. That is why I must say that in my office, I listened to individual explanations or positions of the sentinel groups when they explained why they were against and where they saw problems, almost dealt with Imaginational writings, so that they could find an alternative, why they would not oppose or why the law would not be supported, that I had not read such a substantive law for a long time. Not only are the articles short and very clear, but this introductory part has greatly impressed me, because it is very concretely written about what will happen in the next decade in the field of health infrastructure. But I have to say, I'm very excited about it, too, because I can see that you don't forget anyone. Let us leave aside because my colleague Mojca has already explained our tertiary level, which she knows much better as a Ljubljana girl, I myself have watched much more about what this law brings mainly at the secondary level in the field of health and, last but not least, in the primary part of health care. Since I come from a congregation where we have a very large healthcare home, where we are very proud of it, I must say that when we spent the last 10 years watching what we would do in our health care home, when we, in particular the director of the health care home with our employees and the congregation, including my little thing, tried to get emergency medical care, to get a satellite emergency center, to get a few programs, we always wondered what the investment in the space itself was. Since 2012, when the then Minister Zvone Cernač has given the opportunity for local communities to apply for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities, since then there have been almost no resources, at least not at the primary level. I personally know quite a few mayors who were very happy and who were in the present time, somewhere since 2012 and then during the recovery of 2013 and 2014, not only did they personally rebuild their health homes, i.e. the primary level, but together they may have added a little bit more. But they were left to themselves, and I am so much more pleased today when I read the main solutions for the primary level, I quote: “To strengthen the primary level of healthcare, new building and renovation facilities are envisaged and to obtain the necessary therapeutic and diagnostic equipment necessary for the effective functioning of the primary level.” In short, we are not always just talking about Ljubljana and Maribor, going to that lowest level of decentralisation in the field of the health system. I was also very pleased to read the chapter of the Main Solution for General Hospitals, where in fact it is very well stated what and where it will be built. As someone who comes from Posavje, where both Members from Posavje and our mayors have fought this for a long time – first we fought to keep gynecology at Brežice General Hospital, then we wanted to lower the level of Brežica General Hospital to some third-class hospital and now we have a construction plan for the so-called care department or nursing hospital at Brežice General Hospital – I have repeatedly stressed the construction of the F facility and the reconstruction of the A facility for the management of the care hospital for the Posavje region. I know this isn't going to be today or the second year, but since we have a law where we put almost 2 billion into this area, I believe that all those who have spatial plans will be able to dig into this law or draw funds from it in the coming years. From this point of view, too, all praise goes to the preparers for listening to all of us who come from little smaller places in Slovenia, but where we do much more, where at least individual citizens are not naturally given something. On the other hand, I must say that this law comes at the right time. Credits are cheap, and when you have smart people in the leadership of the government and at individual ministries who know how to spend money rationally and transparently, when you end one European policy on the one hand, you prepare for the other, you have intervention European measures, it is high time for Members to come before us with laws like these today between us. It is just another continuation of the success story of this government, this time in the field of health infrastructure. We put in military infrastructure, we put 72 million into school and preschool infrastructure after 10 years. If the former minister, who was supposed to be the best minister, was one of the worst ministers for my terms, he did nothing for sports and school infrastructure, it would probably be at least one week in mainstream media full of articles written by praises, and this time nothing. It is likely that this law, which will bring almost 2 billion in the next 10 years, will be more written by one, a marginal line on the fifth side of some major Slovenian media, instead of thanking everyone together for not only the government but also in this national assembly with great support to propose, and in particular to adopt laws that go to the area in Slovenia, as the epidemic has shown, the most impoverished. In short, a big thank-you to the planners. It is up to all of us to make sure that all the investments mentioned here are soon to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters and are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor if he wants to. [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today's debate at the temple of democracy gives me optimism. Because I have a feeling that we all have the same goal. I have a feeling that we all aim to have modern health care and follow diagnostic methods and arrange appropriate spaces for our patients. That we want all the health care that will enable us as quickly as possible, and especially such health care, so that Slovenian citizens will trust us who work in health care and trust you who adopt laws. It's very good that we have the same goal. Although the life expectancy in Slovenia and in other countries of the European Union has increased significantly in recent years, the majority of people survive with one or more chronic pain, disease, disability, which leads to a substantial number of services, unfortunately also to disability. European studies show that over the next 20 years we will have about 10% disability in Europe, and probably Slovenia is no exception, we currently have 6.7. European studies also show that in the next 10 years every third person in Slovenia, as well as Europe, will have problems with chronic pain. These are very difficult projections. Just one more case. Slovenia currently has 9.7 rehabilitation beds in 17th place in the European Union. So we really need this law. As can be seen from the analysis of the health system in Slovenia, capital investments have changed as a share of total health expenditure in the past. Of course, since the pre-crisis rate was 5.5%, during the crisis it fell to 4.5% of total health expenditure, and statistics for 2015 showed that gross investment in the health system in Slovenia rose by 7.6%, which was below the average of the European Union. In Austria, for example, this percentage has 20%. So we can ask ourselves why, unfortunately, some of the people from Slovenia are also going there. Patients expect health-friendlyness, prudence, excellence and quality, all of which are provided by satisfied healthcare workers. We all know that one of the main reasons for the satisfaction of employees in addition to wages and well-coordinated relationships and good organisation is the regulation of workplaces. Many employees, who unfortunately decide to leave Slovenian health care, say that in conditions without air conditioning in 100 and more years old buildings, unadapted institutions unfortunately no longer want to work. Dear Member and Members, health must not and cannot be a privilege for anyone. We are health care, and we will need everyone in the future. Let's give Slovenian health care an opportunity and start with this law, and let's get closer to all the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether there is still a will to discuss. I can see that. Just Mr. Doblekar? [[Yeah.]] Just a reminder that if a representative of the Government wants to discuss it again, he gets the word as last. Mr. Doblekar, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I will, of course, be very happy to support this Health Investment Act. So many years of neglecting Slovenian health care, so many years of corruption, stealing money from health care, not investing in infrastructure, neglecting personnel, there is a lack of doctors, medical personnel, diagnostics – if this is not an important reason to support such an important law that we work with, we build the foundations! The foundations of health care for the first time, I can say, in Slovenia alone, if we ignore that period of socialism, which also neglected health care. Here were some praises about the construction of the clinical center, at what price it was made, but it was not told what the cost of the materials and the cost of the work were then. That's not what they said. In short, we know who was the director at the time, from Eartherič on, and what had happened to the present days, how many investigations had been made, how much money had run out. We know everything, because we all know it. Lately, to make order in this area and to spend money on investments in health care, for investments in personnel, in education, in hospitals and health homes. We know that there will be a billion €900 invested in 10 years, and we also know that there are 3.2 doctors per thousand people in Slovenia and 5.2 doctors per thousand in Austria. We also know that there is €89 per capita for prevention in Europe, only €62 in Slovenia, and so on. In short, the data has already been presented so many times that every citizen and citizen can already know them. We also know that current expenditure on health care is 25% below the average of the European Union. We know all this and it is therefore the last time to move forward in this area into the good of citizens and citizens, for the good of health personnel, for the good of health. Here we listened, LMŠ had concerns, SD, not to support this law, but to support the way, so thought, would support thought. Haven't there been enough of these thoughts and these studies? I really don't understand how that can be said. Then Left here says they're socialists, and I don't know what. One good information concerning socialism was released in Cuba a few hours ago by imports of food and medicine, which is said to be an unlimited supply of food and medicine to the country. Can you imagine what socialism does? And there was nothing better about us either. I think it's a really recent time for us to move on and do something. And remember, 2007 this government started preparing and building a heliport at the Clinical Center and was also successful and functioning. And we can all be happy and happy. This government, which was then in the government, namely President Janez Janša, has also prepared a bunch of projects for the emergency centre, and then the government has changed, the ministers have changed, the calls have been repeated, everything has been irritated, everything has stopped – and where are we? When this government occurred during the epidemic, in the most difficult period in the history of Slovenia, this rule was prepared in almost a few days for covid patients. That's it, so they count the actions, not what someone will say, but how nice they'll say it in what way. And when I'm listening here to all sorts of experts who are getting smarter than all the medical staff and all the state secretaries, the ministers, in short, everyone who's dealing with this is passing me by. I hope that this law will in fact be confirmed that the Lithium Health House or emergency medical care will also receive the funds provided for primary health care and that we will be able to finally upgrade and receive modern emergency medical care. I hope that the KUL coalition will not engage with its subjects in this law if it is adopted, which I hope will be another referendum under the pretext that this law is harmful to people, which we are already accustomed to. And there's a call for vaccination. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.24 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 35, 36, 39, 10, 15 and 33. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 35th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 45. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the broken 36th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Waste Incineration and Co-incineration Devices. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on waste incineration and co-incineration facilities is suitable for further treatment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. As you probably know, in Slovenia we have one waste incinerator in Celje and currently one operating waste co-incineration plant, which is the Salonit Anhovo cement plant in the valley of Central Soča. In the valley of Central Soča, this factory left behind a large blood tax in hundreds of years on human health and the health of the environment. In the last century, they worked there with asbestos, and now they add their own Salonit Anho to this pollution. Salonite Anhovo operates more or less on petrolkox and on waste burning [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Okay, can we? In short, while the waste incineration plant in Celje annually incinerates 30,000 tons of waste, Salonit Anhovo, although only a co-incineration plant, burns 100,000 tons, is more than three times higher, and Salonit has asked Arso for permission to increase his smoking rate by 25%. What kind of blood tax is left behind by the past asbestos work as well as the current contamination with various compounds left by the burning of plastics and petrolkox, these numbers tell you. Between 1998 and 2016 there were 560 cases of asbestososis in Slovenia, of which 500 were in the vicinity of Salonita Anhovo, a thousand 886 pleural plaques, of which only 100 were not in the vicinity of Salonita Anhovo, 169 mesothelioms, are very aggressive cancers, of which almost three quarters were in the vicinity of Salonita Anhovo, and so on. In short, people there are exposed to extreme health risks and it is high time something changed. In the National Assembly in Levica, together with civil initiatives, we tried to call on the Ministry of Environment and Space. In February last year, six decisions were adopted to bring the matter in order for the Ministry to settle within six months equalising the standards for incinerators and co-incineration plants. Nothing happened in a year and a half, and even now it doesn't show what's going to happen, so we made a law with them that regulates this thing on our own. We're not going to jeopardize jobs like we hear. For information only, Salonit once hired 2 thousand people, currently 350, by producing only a semi-product of clinker in Slovenia, which he then transports to Italy for refining, and here he smokes waste and uses mineral resources. However, it is necessary to set a time limit for people to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Nice hello to you all! In the SAB party, of course, we support all efforts made by people in the direction of improving the environment. This is also why we will support this law so that it is fit for further consideration. However, we expect that some of the concerns that we have expressed during the debate will be answered by the section below and provide appropriate clarifications. As we explained and also said in the debate, these plants operate under basic environmental permits, i.e. in this particular case as cement, and for cement, higher releases are allowed because of the technology itself. For us in the SAB, it is very important to ask or answer whether because part of the fuel, so instead of coke or oil, changes with waste change emissions. This I think is a key question to be answered by the profession and whether, in due course of three or five years, we can reduce this emissions according to the state of the best technology. We know that the cement plant Anho has indicated that it is available to reduce these emissions. For us in the SAB, it is important whether these goals and this will, which has somehow been demonstrated, are sufficiently ambitious and in terms of protecting the environment. We must all be aware that the trash is simply something to be given and other alternatives to it. All these questions and all these risks need to be answered further. We have not received them now, and we believe that the law is good in the sense that it addresses a very pressing environmental issue in the local environment and beyond. We do, however, expect, I stress, from the profession, that it will submit the answers to specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. While the World Health Organization, WHO, benzene, is only one of the substances that Anhovo releases into the air, is classified among the carcinogen compounds of the first dangerous group, in which there is no safe exposure limit, Slovenian environmental legislation of benzene unfortunately belongs to a third dangerous group. In 2018, 2 000 kilograms of benzene was emitted into the air in Anhovem, representing 40% of all industrial emissions of benzene into the air in our country. However, if benzene were actually placed in the first dangerous group, which we should have, annual emissions of benzene would be zero and no less than one kilogram. In other words, in Anhove instead of one kilogram, they blow up 2.6 tons of highly carcinogenic benzene. No wonder, then, that the health situation in the valley is catastrophic because of such cement practices. Let's just say mesothelioma. It is envelope cancer that surrounds the internal organs in the chest and abdomen cavity. There are 128 cases of this total cancer of 89 in the vicinity of this cement plant. So in Anhovem, among other things, it went into the air and into the lungs of both employees and the inhabitants of the area of 2.6 tonnes of benzene, and in Celje, where the waste incineration plant after the current regulation must provide the prescribed limit values every half hour and the co-incineration plant of Anhovo only on average throughout the day, nothing. Of course, the co-incineration plants take about a day to various breakthroughs of these limit values, and these impacts of pollution are, according to medical warnings, the most dangerous to human health. So let us stop blinding our eyes to these cruel statistics and facts and support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much, President. One very simple reason. There is now an arrangement in Slovenia that could otherwise be saved by means of sub-laws, but is essentially absurd. We have waste incinerators, and we have incinerators. The current situation in Slovenia is that the largest co-incineration device burns more and, of course, also makes more emissions than the largest incinerator in Slovenia. The consequences of such an arrangement are known mainly by the people of the Soča Valley, mainly in Anhove, Deskla, Kanal near Soča, where, in fact, they have to live in some way with the effects of industry in the area for a hundred years. If this was possible something that was unconscious 30, 40 years ago, in 2021 we should no longer keep our eyes closed. Civil initiatives and the people of this area have been pointing out for decades what my colleagues have already said. Practically most of all diseases mainly come from this area when we talk about all of Slovenian statistics. The EU Directive, which is highlighted by opponents of this novel, does not stipulate anywhere that such an arrangement as we propose is not possible. The EU Directive sets the lowest possible standards and Member States may decide to raise these standards. In the light of what is currently happening in and around Anhom, of course, this would make sense because the government and the ministry have not done theirs for two long decades. That is why we have come to this solution that the equalisation of emissions allowed is regulated by law, because this waiting for the people of this area is impossible because they can no longer survive. From this point of view, this law is appropriate, it needs to be supported, and I personally support it, because ultimately it is a matter of human health, contrary to the profits of this co-incineration plant. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you. I will, of course, support this law, because when we talk about the Chernobyl biogas plant, when we talk about fracking in Petišovci or in this case about the Salonit Anhovo co-incineration plant, we are talking about only one thing, which is whether we give priority in our country to dirty capital or give the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to a healthy environment. Here it is very controversial both morally and environmentally and ultimately economically. Because all these profits — the owners of Anhovega are Italians and Austrians — go abroad, out of 15 million profits a year do not pay the profit tax, and here they leave a ruined environment and sick people. We know that there has been a lot of asbestososis, now there is a lot of cancer and of course respiratory diseases, which is unacceptable, and we must not do this to our inhabitants under any circumstances. In fact, environmental crime is happening. We have previously heard: "Yes to what will we live if we do not allow all the dirty industries that are regulated or even banned in many countries of the European Union here with us?" A better question would be what we're going to die of. Here we must imagine whether it is we who deny our citizens and citizens the right to a healthy environment and whether it is right for children to see black snow, eat toxic vegetables and fruits and drink contaminated water. Absolutely not. This environmental crime needs to be stopped and there is a need to ensure direct monitoring and higher standards for the well-being of the environment and people. Of course I'm in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll vote for it myself. This is because of a simple answer to a simple question whether to be smoke from one chimney should be milder than to smoke from another chimney. If a healthcare professional asks what he thinks about it, he says no, that the first chimney already has standards, what is acceptable to human health and what is not acceptable to health. Having double standards to two different chimneys is not a medical profession’s position, but the answer is that it’s because in another chimney they can’t clean so well. But this is a completely wrong question from the point of view of human protection, its health and nature protection. And last but not least, abroad, they've proven that they know how to clean just as well in both chimneys, only will has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 39th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care from 2021 to 2031 is suitable for further consideration. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government has introduced a law to the National Assembly, which it says will strengthen the Slovenian health system with €2 billion over the next 10 years. Unfortunately, the government is doing this in a pre-election package, and with its own law, it's not serious at all. For the first time, we can see this because it gives only EUR 50 million to the primary sector, which carries the greatest weight of patient processing and guidance. Secondly, we can see this in the absence of the strategy and in the way that individual investments are put together, even the cost items are not clear. But the most powerful statement of how the government does not take this own law seriously is the fact that these investments in health care do not have a closed income side. The government has simply put investments on the state budget, the same state budget, which it wants to largely cut off with Simic's tax reform and the social state by taking away 1 billion euros of revenue each year. Ladies and gentlemen, who's going to fund these investments in health care? The answer is no one. That is why I say that this law was sent into Parliamentary procedure with a fig in its pocket and that it needs to be corrected. I will not say reject, I will say correct, because unlike the government of Janez Janša in Levica, the intention is to invest in Slovenian health care as a social priority, we take it seriously and we are about to invest 2 billion euros in new appliances, in a new hospital, in additional health infrastructure. After all, we are deeply lagging behind the percentage of GDP for developed European countries, how much money we have to spend on public funds for the health system. With this law we can cover the gap behind the developed ones, but only by taking the intention of the government seriously, as the government does not want. And this is not only true of the current call of the National Assembly, it is also true of the next call of the National Assembly. In this reading, we will therefore support this law, and we expect that the financial objectives, the commitment to the public spending of the Slovenian public health system in the future, will be respected regardless of who is in charge. We'll insist on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. We welcome in this law that obviously all policies in Slovenia have overlooked the need for public health care, including public hospitals to invest and invest heavily, directly from the state budget. This is the positive thing we see in marriage. On the other hand, we do not see in the law, nor has it been explained today, on the basis of which the Government has decided to offer some hospitals new construction, demolition of the old, construction of new premises, and some adaptations of certain departments. So we expect them to come forward in the process with arguments why a different approach to different hospitals is so different. We are also looking for the assurance that this, this paper, will not only be an empty promise, because it will be realized when the money is provided and when the investments are made. Therefore, the majority of the parliamentary group today will not oppose this law. However, we would like to see to it that what we are interested in, what such a law urgently requires, is provided in a further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Alenka Bratušek has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The public financial situation in our country has deteriorated disastrously under this government. 8.6% deficit, that means more than 4 billion losses, by home, you'll only make this year. Public debt has never been as high in the history of the Republic of Slovenia as it is today. And it's true, we find it hard to believe that you will provide these additional 2 billion for investment in our health care. In the autumn, when the budget is to be brought to the table for the next two years, when it is necessary to bring the framework of public finances for the next two years, the situation will be much clearer and you will say where you intend to take it from, whether you plan to take it from public education, you plan to take it from the social community, you plan to take it from the pensioners, so that you can finance what is written in this law. In any case, health needs additional investment, so we will support in the SAB party the conclusion that the law in the first reading is suitable for further consideration, but before continuing or before our continued support, we absolutely expect to be very clear and shown to whom and where you think these 2 billion that are needed for health care are taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. In his own name, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. I guess I'll be the only one who's gonna vote against this starch that would be insulted if I told her the law. In this call from the National Assembly, I have probably visited a number of hospitals, and I am actually following the Social Democrats health line. As it is written, in this way no mayor of Slovenia deals with public finances, nor does any mayor of SDS. We are the custodians of public finances and this – and I also belong, with the exception of Alenka, who did this on the previous shift, among the people who have read the entire budget to the last comma and dot – is simply not doing so. We adopt budgets, we adopt laws, we should ask ourselves what is the state of Slovenian public health, think about how to change, upgrade the network. Of course, money is needed. Think about what's to be broken, what's to be patched, what's to be rebuilt. Probably reconsider the intentional – sometimes we said tolar – euro. Like this, it is extremely irresponsible politics, and as a responsible person, I cannot support it, even if my parliamentary group, I don't know, hanged me by the balls. I will therefore vote against it. Because I'm serious because financials are a big deal, even if you weren't an old dad. Thank you. And I'm ashamed that you support this political little thing in your pocket. This is irresponsible to public finances. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	We're here to explain the voice. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 2. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under the headings 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This amendment, tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the SAB and the LMŠ, is in fact following the Constitutional Court's decision. It speaks of the need to finance the compulsory part of the programme in private schools at 100%, while the extended programme is not. That's actually what the Constitutional Court said. The proposal proposed by the Slovenian right, with the support of the Modern Centre Party, while providing 100% funding to the mandatory programme, also retains 85% of the funding of the extended programme, which is absolutely unacceptable for us. Indeed, this almost equates the financing of private and public schools. This leads in the long term to a breakdown of the public network of schools in Slovenia, but we know that public schools in Slovenia are one of the best in Europe and the world. And this is absolutely unacceptable for the Social Democrats, so we hope and believe that our amendment will be adopted. Here we particularly hope for the support of Desus, which has been publicly exposed for years and years by defending public education, for how important public education is, and today the Desus Group will also be able to demonstrate by action that it is actually behind its words.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	Comrade Koprivc, everyone's explaining their voice. Mojca Škrnjar has the word on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB because it is contrary to the constitutional decision. In Slovenia, however, there are 448 public primary schools. With 15% of the work required for children, this will be the cost of the state 300 000 per year against a budget of 11 billion. Why are private schools important? There are differences in teaching methods. We know very well the mathematical didactics of montessori. In large part it was also transferred to the curriculum of nine-year-old mathematics. Children are more likely to adopt mathematics. We know the artistic souls who come from the Valdorf School and we also know the values of the Catholic school, that's one of those six, where they are raised, ethics, compassion, responsibility and so on. Private schools are visited on the left and on the right. Here we have quite a few famous and distinguished people in Slovenia, such as Harvard, the best university in the world, American, PhDs Dr. Ana Kučan and Dr. Klemen Jaklič. Private schools are visited by the rich and the poor, but the latter, the poor, will be the ones who will be able to pay them this expense and, of course, will be easier to attend these schools. It is simply a little different pedagogical, which, of course, by their differences enrich the school space. But it's not a competition, 6 to 450 really isn't a competition, and there's no decomposition. The amendment of SD, LMSH and SAB is not well supported, so I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovacič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, President. Given that we have signed these amendments and have tabled another of our amendments, I will explain both. What are these amendments talking about? About what some have taken years to begin to understand, or it has had to come to one more constitutional decision, so that now we can all understand what we have actually been saying in the book of Marjana Sharca all the time. It is the responsibility of the State to finance the mandatory part of the programme, and it is not too bad that those who did not want to understand it or wanted to give something to their friends needed a decision from 2020, which also clearly writes it. We are actually implementing a constitutional decision with both amendments in the List of Marjan Šarc. The same as we wanted in 2018 or 2019, when the government of Marjana Sarca made such a proposal, but those who have so much to the rule of law have unfortunately rejected the proposal. I hope that the first or second amendment will go through and actually implement the constitutional decision, as the Constitutional Judges have written down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Once again, the ruling coalition, as it has done several times before, is trying to legalise private schools, equalise private school funding, weaken public education and devalue it in the long term. It is not just a few hundred thousand euros that the proponents want to present. It's not about money at all, it's an important substantive issue. What kind of education do we want in Slovenia? Do we want to continue to have the best, quality education in line with the development of a society accessible to all, including the less privileged children, or do we want, in the example of America or perhaps the United Kingdom, to have two types of schools, private and public, those for the rich and those for the poorer? The applicants refer to the 2014 Constitutional Decision, which was very unclear, and I have also pointed out this on several occasions, but now the Constitutional Court has made it clear that 100% should be financed only by the mandatory programme and nothing has been said about the widespread. Now, the coalition leaves 85% in general and raises to 100% in compulsory terms. In our country, we are already funding 85% of the programmes in private schools, but this is not enough for them, respectable. They will now raise this to 100 and the difference between private and public school will become minimal. And gradually – why not? — Many parents will decide: “Why would we put a child in a class where 30 children are some Roma and one migrant from Syria is one with severe autistic problems that disturbs learning? We will put the child in a private school, pay 100 euros, and there, in a private school, they will choose the right children." And after all, we know who has the only money to even build schools, and what his interest is to build a private school. The fact that they offer special pedagogy is an option now, and also public schools can offer special pedagogy and you know it. I am well aware that you know the project Amazing Years and many other programmes offered by public schools, as well as montessors and other methods of public school can offer. It is only about the privilege of individuals, the privilege of the private sector, and the private sector understands us by funding the public sector. They would go to the private sector with public funds. We're not in the SAB for that. Eighty-five percent of funding is completely sufficient and we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that we will not support the amendment of SD, LMSH and SAB. But let me say that we support public education, we strongly support it. After 10 years of vacuuming we provided 112 million for primary public infrastructure and kindergarten protection! 112 million. We support public schools, public primary schools and kindergartens. But even if there is now a division, I find it unacceptable. We're not gonna legitimize anything, we're just abolishing what the Constitutional Court ordered us to do. The Constitutional Court found in its decision of 2020 that the National Assembly had failed to carry out its task. That he didn't do his job. And we will carry out this task because in New Slovenia we take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then Lydia the Savage Mirnik in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. Knowledge is the foundation of social and economic development. With this, I hope that everyone in this room agrees. In LMŠ, when we talk about education, we advocate two principles. First time, high-quality, fair public education. Secondly, promoting lifelong education with the competences of the future. That's what's gonna take us on as a society. We therefore want quality public education, accessible to all, but not the choice of students according to different criteria, such as the start of private schools. First, they collect tuition, secondly, they choose students according to different criteria, such as sex, nationality, and other religious beliefs. And no, respected colleagues and colleagues on the right, it is not about implementing a constitutional decision, as they say, but it is about financing private education, namely a 100% mandatory programme and an 85% extended programme. That's what this is about. Homemade, it's about money. And yes, it is, so far there are not many of these private schools, but nowhere does it say that tomorrow will be no more, and tomorrow also, because they are almost 100% funded on both programmes. The right to choose is not a right to finance, my dears. Of course, parents can choose in any way where their child is enrolled, but they need to know that if he is enrolled in a private school, they will finance it. It's that simple, actually. I will vote for our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much. My colleague Franz Runk in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	In my own name, of course. As a science-mathematic technique and a little bit of an artistic soul [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, What am I, a sheep? Okay, like the sheep I'm going to say, is that any better? As an asshole, do I say, "Honorable Hand," that's better for you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Comrade Duck, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Yeah, okay. Why are they breaking my voice if that's what I am? Pika. What? Or should I deny my own self?Oh, my God! Christian, is that what you want, Janishts lost?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Please! I'm asking for some respect, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Now I'm gonna keep going. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] May I continue? Public education is a civil acquisition. Among the first, they started public compulsory education in a land that did not rot, but is called Denmark. I agree with my colleague Škrnjar that educational, didactic, Andragog approaches should, of course, be renovated and upgraded, but in Slovenian public education. That's what this is about, and we should actually talk about it. As for the decisions of the constitutional courts that you are enforcing, I do not understand why you are withdrawing today the law on communicable diseases, which is much more specific than what the Constitutional Court of 2014 said.Oh, my God! Because you're delusional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Comrade Runk, I give you a reminder. I think that this expression is disrespectful, and I ask that we all abstain from it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	But you didn't give a warning when they insulted my professionalism. Are we going to the 21st century like idiots?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Comrade Runk, please! Comrade Koprivc has a word, an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. As I said before, I will vote for this amendment. The Slovenian Hand is constantly trying to show that the bill seeks to comply with a constitutional decision or a decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this does not really apply because the Constitutional Court was clear and the decision was very exact. It speaks only of the compulsory work of the funding programme in private schools, so please do not mislead the Slovenian public. It's something else. The point is that the Slovenian Hand, with the help of SMC in its last breaths, tries to prey even after private schools or tries to acquire its kindergarten in this area, as in universities, as in the media, trying to obtain additional funds for private schools, for their schools, for Catholic schools, for schools where people are close to their leader, near Janez Janša. This is unacceptable, and please, stop, stop the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 3. Procedural proposal, colleague Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	I don't know if I heard you wrong, but I don't think you put the LMSH amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	He's coming. He's coming. The number 3 is LMSH. Comrade Rajić, you have the floor to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello! The funding model according to the 100% formula for the mandatory part of the programme and 85% of the funding of the extended programme is fair, human and generous. Our society is lucky to be able to do that, it can do that. This amendment also introduces a solution that responds adequately to the very request of the Constitutional Court that it has given us. For almost seven years now, we have been making more sincere efforts to implement this constitutional decision, but we have actually remained on this front between the two ideological agendas. The amendment, which we have tabled, introduces a prudent guardian and sets the basic criteria for financing private schools, must, of course, be included in the application, must ensure equal entry conditions regardless of nationality, gender, race, sexual orientation and religious belief, must ensure the critical mass of full-time teachers and parents for the compulsory part of the programme for which they will receive 100 % of the funding from the country, the school must not charge tuition. We want these guards to be more, but the article that was opened doesn't allow it. However, if possible, we would certainly endeavour to make a clearer distinction between public and private programmes, to introduce evaluations of the implementation of the private school programme throughout the course of one generation and to allow for the withdrawal of this public service if it proves incorrect. At the end of the seven-year journey, when each child is paid the same for the compulsory part of the programme, regardless of the decision of its parents or whether they will enter it into a public or private school. Also due to the enrichment of the school space and the strengthening of its diversity, 85% of the extended programme will also be financed by the State. We must not separate children according to the criterion of payment of their primary education, because it is their inalienable right and must not be shortened and it must not be decisive whether the parents chose to enter a private school instead. Children cannot influence this choice and it is therefore appropriate that we, as a society, give them equal conditions. We will only support the marriage if our amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1 has been adopted under Article 2, the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members to this Article has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you again, President. Public education, as we have already heard today, is a civilization achievement, is a good thing if you want. The key importance of public education – and fortunately in Slovenia we have a wide public network covering the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia – is that it also has a social function, that it is inclusive and that it equates differences, especially social ones. It does not distinguish between who can enter primary school and in principle provides at least approximately the same starting conditions for all pupils. This does not mean, of course, that it does not have its mistakes, that it could not be better, that it could not actually be free, that, for example, no student would have to pay for any additional activities and similar matters, but that is still a good thing to defend. On the other hand, we have private education and therefore this law is not a law that only implements a constitutional decision, but is a law that constitutes an attack on public education. Private education is exclusive. Private education can choose, private education can charge, private education can set its own conditions and is fundamentally contrary to the concept of primary education. What the coalition is doing, or, above all, what our right hand desires, is to slowly, as we have seen now in the last few months in other systems, begin to eat up the public service system. We'd privatize health care, of course, after the curves, in a similar way to education. It is said that concessionaires and private individuals would be given public funds for the provision of certain services. We have exactly the same story here. Now we are going to fund private schools with a ratio of 100% to 85%, which is said for both parts of the school process, which in the long term can pose a threat to public education. Yes, there are six private schools today, there will be 12 tomorrow, 24 tomorrow and so on. It is totally unacceptable for the State to finance private interests that are partial and are not exclusively different learning methods. For example, you have a Catholic school that writes very clearly in its curriculum that the whole study or school process takes place in some way in the extradition of God and so on. The country does not have to finance such things, and these are also the various European institutions that have identified them, and it is the decision of each individual country to do so. In Levica, the position has remained unchanged since the attempt to change the Constitution, every euro for private schools is less for public schools, for those same public schools that have suffered from the tightening of belts in the past year due to the covid epidemic, and we will be absolutely against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc has the floor on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much, President. Social Democrats will be resolutely against this law. Again, as it is said, this is not about compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is a lot more. It is an attack on the public school system in the Republic of Slovenia and the undignified gifts to private schools by the government of Janez Janša. This is absolutely unacceptable and we are absolutely against the collapse of the public school system. As you know, as has already been said, our school system is one of the best in Europe. Private schools, as a complement to public schools, are absolutely acceptable, but we cannot agree that funding is so much the same, as this means that the public school system will begin to be broken down in the long run. However, public schools are accessible to all citizens and citizens regardless of religion, regardless of political conviction and regardless of the part of Slovenia they come from. But of course, the right government of Janez Janša, with the help of SMC, wants to make the Slovenian school system an elite system, which is absolutely terrifying. We will use all means to ensure that such a law does not enter into force. Once again, please do not deceive that this is a matter of compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Such a law was adopted by the previous government under the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of Germany, and the same right was against it at that time, and today it is argued that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be taken into account. It's very clear what this is about. The point is that the SDS and Janez Janša click to strengthen their influence in the school system, and because they cannot do so through public education, they try to offer unworthy and inappropriate gifts to private schools through the help of the Roman Catholic Church. You do the same in the field of higher education, in the field of media and in the field of health. The model is clear, you follow Orban and some other dictator, which is unacceptable and unacceptable. We will not allow you to destroy the Slovenian public school system in a few months, as far as the end of this term is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Please explain your voice in such a way as to downplay the arguments why you will vote in favour, but not to use this time to deal with others. Aljaž Kovacič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you again for your word, President. In this crisis we saw the importance of the public school system in Slovenia, that even if the department is in charge, forgive the expression, such an incompetent person, has survived and worked very well in these times of crisis. As far as private schools are concerned, both the European Court of Human Rights and the European Commission have been clear on several occasions. No international document obliges the State to finance or co-finance private education. So the state decides to what extent. Around 1995, 1996 there was agreement between the government and the RCC to accept the ZOFVI, and for many years there was peace, and then greed was growing and as a result there was dissatisfaction. The Constitutional Court has made several decisions. Although everyone who wanted to understand understood this, unfortunately some did not, and the 2020 decision was needed, which is clear. The country is obliged in Slovenia to finance the mandatory part of the programme. This has also been offered several times. Sadly, many were dissatisfied. We will, of course, vote against this harmful law in the letter of Marjan Šarc. However, all those who support this law will confirm the extensions that they will be able to become businesses in the future of primary school and that public education will begin to be threatened. Of course, our vote will be absolutely against.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	President, thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that in this brief explanation, I will not be ideological. The first thing I want to say is that some private, private school in Slovenia could still be, and this would not bring down public education. Given that we have been exposed to public education for 30 years in our programme, of course for such a law as it is now, we cannot vote. Given that the LMŠ, as our voting controller, actually had its own amendment, we were prepared to support these controllers in fact. Unfortunately, this vote has not taken place. Because of the lack of voting, we have decided that we cannot fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of New Slovenia will be supported by law. But now after seven years things are really becoming crystal clear and very simple. Although at the moment the decision was issued, we understood what was actually going on. Thank God in our Constitution we have the freedom guaranteed, in this case the freedom of parents to provide their children with the best basic education possible. On the other hand, every citizen also has the freedom to bring this law, if adopted today, to the Constitutional Court and to request an opinion. We in New Slovenia sincerely, and for the hundredth time again, support public education. We understand public education as an education, as a system financed by public money. I can honestly say this year, after 10, 11 years of vacuum, we have provided 112 million euros, 112 million euros for public kindergartens and public primary schools, not for private schools. Not for private. At the moment, it is also well-designed to thank the unrelated Members for gathering this wisdom, especially here my colleague Bane, as I call him at home, Branislav Rajić, was also chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport once. Perhaps it was because of this experience that they could find the right measure of text that would actually eliminate unconstitutionality. On our part, sincere thanks and once again support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Alenka Bratušek has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote against this law in the SAB Group. The vote for marriage is a vote for private education and against public education. In a public school, every child in Slovenia has a place in private only for the chosen. Children who are enrolled in a private school are also in public school. And that's the difference between public and private. This is how you start to divide our citizens and citizens into first-class and second-class ones in the first-class class. We are very much opposed to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. But it's an interest in its own name. I'm going to run the list. Please report to the person who wants to explain your voice in your own name. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I will vote against the law. I would like to stress once again that the right to choose or to freedom, as my colleague Horvath says, is not the same as the right to finance. I absolutely believe that every citizen has the right to choose between a public and a private school. To someone who wants to go to a Catholic school, there is no way that we can challenge this, and it is certainly his personal right to choose it. The second question is what is the duty of the State. Is it the duty of the State to provide a quality and strong public school system that is ideologically neutral, which accepts every citizen and citizen regardless of religion, regardless of where it comes from, or is it the duty of the State to finance, on an almost equal scale, some private schools that actually work from this business? I think the answer is very clear. Once again, every additional euro in private schools poses a threat to the public network of schools, which are excellent in Slovenia and have been built for 75 years. There's no way we can agree to that. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. The government of Janez Janša guides us centuries ago when we did not have a public network of education and health care and watched nuns guard children and heal the sick. I think that this time is long overdue and that it is essential to drive ideology out of school in the first place. And of course Catholic schools won't do that. The worst of all is that you, who are defending everything in private and privatised, should privately finance it with common public money. We'd have private media funded by public money, private hospitals funded by public money, private schools funded by common public money. If you need to have private schools, hospitals, the media, just pay for them. It is unacceptable, however, that public education, which is essential for every euro and which is exasperated — we know how to fertilize selected subjects and languages in public schools — is passed on to a private school where, as many have mentioned before, not everyone is welcome. And above all, it's not about equality. You will be able to separate your children from a child from a kindergarten, from the first grade of elementary school, and to raise them twice. What kind of country are we going to be? Of course, a first - class and second - class country like your John is so fond of mentioning that he forgets to say that he absolutely works and advocates only a handful of first - class ones. Absolutely against such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Let me speak before me. I can't get the ideology out of the school field. The school field is one of the key ideological structures and apparatus that Altizer taught us long ago, as well as someone else before it. I advocate the ideology of solidarity, the ideology of secularism, the ideology of the indistinguishability of citizens to the first-, second-, third-class. And here we are on our left brothers with, say, French nudists. That is why I will not support this law because I come from a different and different ideology than the Slovenian right. I will not support him for this – now the bouu – because I was the scientific coordinator of the great European project and there I am talking to people from different parts of Europe. I was talking to a friend from Port who had three beautiful pubes, and he had a good porter. He said it cost him 800 euros a month to train a child in elementary school. That was there in 2008, 2009. Well, there were the predominant primary schools of Catholic, quality, in the hands of nuns, as they say at home. I don't mind, but it's not an ideology I'd advocate, it's not an ideology of schools I'd want for my own children, let alone grandchildren or grandchildren if they ever came. It would also be nice to say, however, that if I paraphrase the Premura colleague, that this 112 million is, of course, a pouf, similar to most in this government, which will be paid by those who will study. And I agree with the fact that loans are given on purpose for more intelligence and for more knowledge, but not for concrete. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Of course I will vote against it, as I have said many times. However, I would like to respond to the claim that every child deserves the opportunity to attend a free primary school in our country. Of course, every child has this option. Even for children, as has already been said, who will eventually join a private school, our country has built a school, even in the farthest place, in the highest village there is a school, which is equipped, which has a roof, which has a heating room, has a classroom, has equipment and waits for the parents to decide whether to put it in a private school or a public school. And if he puts it in private, he'll stay in this school. Slowly, when there are more and more children in private school, we will close this school. The one who says it doesn't involve separating children, you know that's not true. I understand that there are private colleges, I understand that even some high schools, and in primary school should have all the children, all of them, even the poorest, one way or another, the possibility of going to quality school with their peers. Every euro, I agree, which is private schools, is less about public schools, which are bloodthirsty. If they were sitting on my oil, you'd understand that money is also being donated to the private sector, and that's not the case. It is rejected and it is unchristian that this greed is that 85 % of funding is not enough for you to want 100 % and go to the private sector with public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. In our words, we are all Members alike, we differ in our actions. You have a lot of nice words about public education, and we will support public schools with actions, with the biggest invitation from independence on. No such call has been made so far. We spend €115.5 million on school infrastructure from the budget. And not pumping people. We will help 126 congregations, help many children, teachers, to have better conditions. Of course, I will support the bill, because of my system of values. You are disgusted on the left because we want to respect the Constitutional Court decision and finance schools where Slovenian children go, where our children go. On the other hand, you've been shoveling millions of euros for non-governmental organisations on the Metelk, and God forbid someone would take away their euro. Since, unlike our left, children are more important to me than non-governmental organisations on the Metelkova, I will, of course, undermine the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Private schools are also posed as NGOs, but of course the government of Janez Janša does not pursue them, further rewards them with public money. Of course, I will vote against this law, which it takes to public education, and this means to private schools. Public schools follow a common interest, an interest that we have as a society as a whole, and private schools operate and exist because of some partial interest either in a business way that someone will earn from them, or in the way of some special ideological agendas they have. Of course, the government of Janez Janša set out to privatize public education, just as all other social sub-systems in this country. But just like in health care, he can't do it directly. As the support for public education in Slovenian society is very high and public education, public knowledge is regarded as a value, it does so by bending it by further financing private schools with our public money. We also know what the next steps are. It is not the ambition of the government of Janez Janša to privatise schools; it is also the ambition to clericalize them. But as long as these schools are public, he can't do that. Private interests are the only thing the government of John Janša realizes, which it understands. It parasites in our common good public rather than manage it, it cuts, privatizes and flows into private pockets. Today, we have the opportunity to put our private interests at stake in education, but only if we collect enough votes to reject this harmful law for the privatisation of education. Desus, unrelated, we're looking at you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u242	Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u243	I will support these laws myself for the following reasons. First time. The civilisation of mankind was created by people of different approaches to solving certain problems and by understanding that where everyone thinks the same way, no one thinks. Point one. The second most important point is that today someone said that public education came about 75 years ago and that this is why they are defending him. 75 years ago, there was an ideological public education, and that's why they're defending it. Public education in our area was created by the Teresian Law, the reforms of Mary Teresa and Franz Joseph II, by the so-called Law, which is called the School General Order, on 6 December 1774. At that time, public education was first lit up in our space as such, and at that time a partial civilisation began in this space, which was blurred during the communist dictatorship. My colleagues have said today that they continue to think about the social democrats and the Slovenian leftists about the public school system. Their minister, Pikalo, has put together a total call for EUR 4 million for the whole of Slovenia. With that money, maybe two school roofs. The government of Janez Janša raised €40 million in the first phase and, at my initiative, an additional €74.73 million, totalling around 113 million. So we've reached 113 million so that in every village, the farthest part, children can enter quality public education. Of course, this should be added to the fact that private education is an addition that is very quality. As a result of the way it will now be financed, people from socially weak families will have a great opportunity to step up to their best in private schools. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 43. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2021, published on the e-club. Procedural proposal, colleague Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedural proposal in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups, we propose that the decision on the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund, thirdly, be postponed to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Yeah.]] My friend Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Yesterday we listened to how important this law is, how vital it is to adopt it as soon as possible, otherwise there will be great damage. Today, when the presidents of the three coalition parties announced what a colleague from the SDS had done now, they said that the atmosphere was too warm and that this was one of the reasons why this urgent law, which would do much damage if it did not go through, would be put to decision at one of the following meetings. At one of the next meetings. However, there is a reason to be truthful. The reason that we are moving the decision on the demographic fund to one of the next meetings is that you do not have enough votes to adopt it is nothing more than that you are actually afraid of voting in this national assembly. And the same is true of you finding that the law on infectious diseases will fall, that you do not have enough votes to endure. Today, when these three presidents of coalition parties spoke of the responsibility of people to face the epidemic, they forgot their own responsibility, at the responsibility of the government. Their responsibility is that when it is found that you do not have enough votes, either give up or tie your confidant to something or laugh as cynically as you are now and hold authority at all costs. And that's exactly what you're doing today. You're actually making a fool of people. You're afraid of elections. A politician said a few years ago, something like this: “When trust falls so strongly to the government”, I think he spoke below 25%, “the only anti-crisis measure of early elections.” And early elections are the only way to gain people's confidence. You have lost it, and now, at all costs, even at the expense of decision-making democracy, in this House, you are breaking what should not be broken, exposing this law. In the LMŠ Group, we are not afraid to vote on this law and we will vote against you withdrawing because you have no votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of our parliamentary group is, of course, such that this law is bad, that this law does not solve the issues that it should resolve from a demographic point of view, and that this law also has certain entirely different purposes in it. But this position doesn't matter right now. It is an important position of coalition parliamentary groups that has so far been so important that this law is of great importance, that this law is a priority, that it is the first saving government to be able to bring this law under the roof, that it is substantively assigned and that it also has the necessary votes. But apparently there are no voices. Apparently, there's not even the courage to vote on it. Which is understandable, of course, according to the fiascos that this government and this coalition experienced this week. After a fiasco at Sunday's referendum, after a failed jump to the Constitutional Court, after a veto in the State Council, and so on, of course, no one would dare to allow this vote, where the very obvious voices that are very necessary, of course, are not. Or it is, we're all asking ourselves today, something else in the back. Is buying the votes of some Members in exchange for supporting tomorrow's vote on a ministerial candidate? That's probably it. We're assuming that's it. However, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, of course, we oppose the motion for postponement and insist on voting and showing who is who, who is where, who has the votes and who does not have them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Until yesterday, it seemed to me that one of the key laws of this coalition, a demographic fund that would save the pension fund in 20 years, after 30 years, must be adopted at all costs and that this would be some kind of state-of-the-art action looking forward to some future. We also agree, Social Democrats, that we need a demographic fund. Only the difference between us and SDS is in the concept. We defended it and then passed a law with the SAB, where the demographic fund concentrated in such a way that in 20 years, when it was supposed to start filling the pension fund, it would not be exhausted and would not be used up for direct consumption of the profits. That's our concept. With regard to these personnel matters, who will sit on them, this is less important. That's why we were against your marriage all the time. Until yesterday, it was one of the most important laws. Today, on the night that it was seen that we have a real minority government in the country, depending on the voices they receive from day to day from other opposition parties, when it was found that on Sunday there were still 700,000 people against the government, when the State Council, which had not even winked at this government, voted veto, of course had to do something. The easiest thing was that things were moving away. We are pleased, however, that the matter is withdrawn, that the law is not on the agenda. And now I'm gonna bet, almost bet he'll stay in the drawer. That he'll stay in the drawer, too. But if such a marriage goes forward, it is likely that the fate of the referendum will await it. So, dear gentlemen of the coalition, what you have proposed today, you will also have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I kind of welcome this withdrawal, because apparently, after Sunday's fiasco at the referendum, when she managed to mobilize 700,000 people against herself, and on the other hand only 100,000 people after her, it becomes clear that with the society she wants to lead, she cannot be at war. You can't be at war with civil society, with the profession, with the unions, with the opposition, with the media, with the judiciary, with all the opponents that you'll come up with, and you can usually put left-handed stickers on them. Well, we didn't. I mean in this black and white world of yours. We have a united democratic opposition and we have a government that wants to monopolize power in this country. We've been processing this demographic fund for a year, and we know exactly what time it is. The demographic fund is no solution to pensions. This year's pension deficit will be around €200 billion, from state-owned enterprises will come to the budget €170 million. A billion too little to cover a hole at all, and you say, not just pensions, but family policy and home for older citizens will be built with this money. Out of 170 million, you're going to create 2 billion with a magic stick, which is just an accounting that you can only sell to people who believe you blindly. On the other hand, everyone who has read this law knows that this law is nothing more than an attempt by the government to monopolize state property and turn it into their hunting ground for political personnel, which can only be set up by state companies. We have known this for a year, and in May, June or July, the situation was no different. The only reason you're withdrawing is because you're afraid of a new referendum because you're afraid to face a new reality that you've created, it's a government against the people. You can't do that. I will not support this maneuver of yours because I think you must face this reality, and you cannot escape this reality or pretend that it will disappear over the summer. The atmosphere, you say, is too warm – you overheated it yourself and it is time to face this reality, but really in the early elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Alenka Bratusek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Your demographics bill is a complete disaster. Of course, we don't support him in the SAB. In the SAB party, we support a demographic fund that would provide only and exclusively for pensions, where funds would be accumulated for the first 20 years prior to consumption and where, in addition to state property, two of our greatest natural assets, the real resources from water and wood management would be earmarked for the future. Once again, your marriage is a complete disaster. We've been explaining this to you for six months. Yesterday you convinced us how good this law is and how Slovenia will collapse if we do not accept it immediately. If it wasn't for state property, what's going on today would be funny, and that's unfortunately a disaster. You're playing with 9 billion state assets. Unfortunately, it's really sad that this exercise of yours is going nowhere. But I'm sure it'll be over sooner or later. Once again, we do not support the demographic fund law that this government has drawn up, nor will we support this exercise of yours with the conclusion that the demographic fund should be voted on at one of the following meetings. But I join in wishing that where this law of the Roma is now, it shall remain in the drawer forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Does the representative of the proposer of the postponement wish to further explain his proposal? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on the motion to postpone the decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the decision on the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund, EPA 1397-VIII, to one of the next meetings of the Assembly. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and the National Assembly will therefore take a decision on the proposal at one of the next meetings of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pharmacy Activities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Pharmacy is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the parliamentary group Dusan Verbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that, President. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we recognized the need for a minor amendment to the Act on Pharmacy Activities, and only in the work to grant greater autonomy to the mayors of Slovene municipalities, who are best acquainted with the situation in their local community, regarding the situation of establishment and integration, especially in ensuring the functioning of pharmacies themselves at the primary level. At the same time, the amendment of the existing Article 26 of the Pharmacy Act makes it possible to establish its own suppliers of pharmacies. This proposed amendment is all the more important as the competition between suppliers of products offered by pharmacies on the Slovenian market is unleashed. This will make it very likely that there will remain greater profits for pharmacies in Slovenian pharmacies. Thus, these profits would allow further development of municipalities or would be known at lower prices of medicines or aids to relieve the pain of citizens, patients and all those who visit pharmacies. The current practice shows that there are profits from suppliers of pharmacies and pharmacies everywhere, only for the benefit of citizens or users of pharmacies. The proposal for this amendment also provides an opportunity to solve the case of the Maribor-based Farmer, the Ljubljana Grossist, the problems of the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota and a number of municipalities which have been facing similar problems for many years. In short, in our parliamentary group we are firmly in the position that as many profits as possible from the supply chain of pharmacies should remain with the municipalities, founders of pharmacies. On the basis of a reasoned proposal by the Group of the Modern Centre Party for amendments to the Act on Pharmacy Activities, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš has the word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, chairman. This law has basically one and the same goal, which is to increase the number of pharmacies we have in Slovenia. Not because we would have any real need to need more pharmacies and that a greater number of pharmacies should be followed by better medical care. Oh, no, not at all. This law was introduced into the procedure as a lobbyist law, because the field of pharmacy in our country is really privatized to some extent, but it is not liberalized. From gravity areas, how many pharmacies can we have on how many people there are, these are prices, these are all regulated in us and they are the same. In other countries, such as Australia, we were able to monitor what happens when you allow vertical integration between individual small pharmacies and their retail sales and wholesale suppliers while at the same time treating the entire supply of medicines as a normal economic sector. The use of medicines jumps, smaller pharmacies emerge, which does not lead to better public health, but only to higher profits to the detriment of human health, in fact. Since pharmacies are specialized shops selling medicines, in a deregulated, liberalised regime of course they can make profits in one and the same way, that is to increase the sales of medicines. Profit motive overwhelms public well, profit motive overwhelms public health, consumption of medicines increases excessively. We will, of course, vote against this law in Levica. It was written from a totally lobbyist perspective of large pharmacies that exist in us, or from the perspective of individual mayors who work with their municipalities as privatized pastures. Mr Zoran Jankovic, the municipality of Ljubljana and the Ljubljana Pharmacy are certainly the first of those octopuses to want to spread hunters through this evil law after the rest of the country and suck up small local municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u261	Now, a little reality, I hope, for a change. It is difficult to understand the concept of vertical connection and gravity areas, so it is crucial for me to answer the next question in this law. Will it make consumers have a lower price for medicines and other things they can buy at a pharmacy? Bodo. Will there be more pharmacies in our country in smaller villages, of course if the local community, the Ministry of Health and the Pharmacy Chamber give their consent? Yes, in this case there will be a new pharmacy. Above all, it is crucial for me to keep the money, the big money that comes from shopping in pharmacies, from the local community. The Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor have only its own velodrogerist and all the money that comes to the municipalities is spent on municipal projects. Thus, the profits, the large profits generated from this activity, in this case, remain to the congregation to build schools, roads, health homes and so on. If this law is not adopted, the Maribor and Ljubljana municipalities will have to sell their wholesalers by the end of the year, and they will buy them, there is no doubt about it, one of the two drug providers on our market, two multinationals, names I do not even need to mention. All those who will vote against this law obviously want large profits from pharmacy activities to be cashed by two multinationals who do not even pay taxes in Slovenia. Rather than getting this money from the Municipality of Ljubljana, God forbid Zoran Jankovic, and the Municipality of Maribor, which will put it back in the public good, in public good, you seek to sell these companies, that two foreign multinationals dictate the price of medicines and other aids on our market and that the medicines will be irritated and the profits will go into private hands. In private hands. Vertical connections in Europe are not prohibited. Austria has part of them, Finland prohibits them, the Netherlands has everything relaxed. Are we really going to give up, even if it's just two of our biggest cities, golden chickens carrying golden eggs, and giving these golden eggs to foreign owners?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Branislav Rajić has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. There is also some reality on the part of unrelated Members. We undermine the provision that the public pharmacy office may own a velodrogerist for the supply of medicines. This will, for the first time, reduce health expenditure and, secondly, will also reduce the prices of medicines for free sale. Public pharmacies that purchase medicines in their own Grossistes, as in our country, offer medicines to their residents at a lower price than are offered by private pharmacists. Grossists own their profits, and this is an additional quality, they target the public health network as well as the local community. There is also something to be said about the fact that the European Union does not, in fact, prohibit vertical connections when it comes to protecting public health and when a Member State so decides. Therefore, the vote against this law will be a happy news for the multinational and foreign suppliers. The very existence of wholesalers, such as the Maribor Pharmaceutical, should be in line with public interest, mainly due to the lower price of medicines. Today's vote will show whether, as legislator, we are able to turn the law into our country and our people's best interests. It will also show whether in Slovenia we read the word directive as a directive or as a dictatorship. Today's vote will show whether, as a liberal society, we are capable of resisting the interests of multinational capital and rational, prudent, dedicated and smartly enabling domestic golden geese to roll their golden eggs at home. A voice against this law means that we will kill and kill our golden geese and the geese' liver humbly serve the revered strangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, first Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I have said several times in this National Assembly that it is necessary to nationalise the entire pharmaceutical sector. I'm talking about production, I'm talking about research, I'm talking about supply of medicines in the pharmacy system. This is one of the main sectors to provide complementary health care and human health. The law we have on the table today doesn't do that. He won't nationalize Salus, he won't nationalize any other nationals like Chemofarmation. But it will allow pharmaceutical grapes to spread their hunters much wider than they can right now. This means that the number of pharmacies will increase, meaning that the number of medicines sold to people will increase regardless of whether people actually need them. The result will be the destruction of smaller pharmacies, concessional or public pharmacies in smaller municipalities. We will, of course, vote against this law in Levica. This reminds us that the pharmacy industry is also partially privatised to us, and it is highly regulated. It has prices that are set, has margins that are prescribed, and no deregulation will lower any additional prices. All it will do is that some major players will be able to monopolize the market and then supply medicines for certain purposes that are not public objectives, but are the objectives of filling some private pockets, the objectives of pursuing private interests, even when these private interests are covered in public functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Andrey Reich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Comrade President. First, I want to explain why I'm going to support this marriage. For the first time, I will support it because the amendment of the law will allow the two biggest Slovenian municipalities, which still have wholesalers, not to be forced to sell it by the end of the year. Therefore, the sale within four months is a forced sale with a very low and questionable buyer. This is the first case, so that the property of the citizens of the two largest Slovenian municipalities is not damaged. Another issue is why I will support this law and this novel because it still maintains that consent to the distribution of the pharmacy network is given by the local community, the Pharmacy Chamber and the Ministry of Health. Otherwise it is not possible to expand, these are the conditions under which the pharmacy network can be expanded. So if the local community does not agree to a pharmacy to come to the congregation, then it cannot come to the congregation and, in fact, these repeated fears are unfounded. Third time. Because I stand for strong public health because I don't want two foreign multinationals cheating on profits with public money. Because I don't want them to go to profit abroad and because I don't want public health in this way to be poor in the local community. And I do not want foreign multinationals to avoid paying taxes in Slovenia. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Of course I won't support the law. Yesterday, it was clear why it was a lobbyist law. I am sorry, but some Members are also in the role of city councillors and are tied up and working with the mayors who are at the forefront here. But more importantly, they object to this view of the Faculty of Pharmacy as well as the Chamber of Pharmacy and the Chamber of Commerce. Of course you won't say anything about that. Among other things, they say at the Faculty of Pharmacy: “The proposal concentrates pharmacies in cities and the needy network of pharmacies in rural areas. By doing so, we are moving away from providing a pharmacy activity under the same conditions. The concentration of pharmacies in cities is not intended to ensure better supply of medicines, but is intended to further commercialise the pharmacy activities for other products obtained in the pharmacy. By doing so, the pharmacy activity is moving away from its primary mission," I repeat, “department from its primary mission, that is to ensure effective treatment with medicines and medical devices. Increased concentration of pharmacies means fragmentation of the size of pharmacies and personnel, which does not allow a quality organisation of pharmacies. The human and financial implementation of the pharmacy is undernourished, leading to commercialisation. Vertical integration, which was mentioned only in terms of the ownership of large-scale pharmacies by pharmacies, would constitute unfair competition with other velodrogeria. The proposed deregulation will not and cannot lower the price of medicines, as we have a centralised price-setting approach," and so on. In short, our network is comparable to a network in Scandinavian countries with a high level of public health. Networks, i.e. more pharmacies, are found in Greece, Bulgaria and so on, where we would go and where public health is very low. For the fact that people are wooded in pharmacies and without prescriptions buy some tools, ointments and so forth and heal themselves cannot raise the level of public health [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now deciding that the law is suitable for further consideration. This means that if this decision is voted on, there will be a great deal of opportunity to discuss this law. And I remind you of that because I can see that there are still a few more hands and that you want to explain your voice. I'll start the list, please really sign in. We all have another regular session today. The application shall be made. The word is Frant Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. Well, if we say it's a lobbyist law, it's also what my colleague Sukič read, some kind of lobbying. If we touch the countryside – unfortunately I am also a spatial sociologist, boom – people will move from the Slovenian countryside. Since we are neglecting this rural area because there will be no adequate infrastructure for young people there, let's remember that Cerara government, something closes, then goes to Brglez – what? – open an ATM because they will not have adequate jobs because they will not have adequate public passenger transport. And that's what you have to think in this cluster. Most pharmacies as public civilisational acquisitions, of course, have a certain exposure that makes profits, as well as certain exposures that make downs. There's something important that's been said before me. You should consider some sort of regulation of all that happens in pharmacies without a prescription. That would be necessary. This family I, of course, am not bound to any instructions under article 82. [[…]] After seven years, you realized that I would be a heavy rocket directed by anyone else. But this story around the Farmadent in Maribor we are already pacifying, I don't know, since 2014, 2015, even Maša has told a great story here, including colleague Reich. It is clear that I will vote in favour. But if I were to nationalize something in Slovenia, I would nationalize stupidity, including the one that I say, and the one that comes from private schools, I would burn it in a new incinerator in Maribor and Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u273	I don't think I have to tell you again that I'm going to vote that the law is appropriate. However, I am reporting because it is extremely insulting that the name lobbyist law is called something that brings more public funding. It brings more money to two local communities, but these are public funds. The Lobby Law is usually used as the concept of private earnings. And claims in the style of “both wholesalers or wholesalers would constitute unfair competition for other wholesalers” – to which?Oh, my God! Two are in Slovenia, and those are multinationals. Yeah, it's true, they're competition for multinationals. That's right, yeah. And now that we stop them, these multinationals will no longer have competition. That's right. And two multinationals, Salus and Chemofarmation, will dictate the price of medicines and these things that are sold in a pharmacy across Slovenia. Two privates to private and public pharmacies. And the fact that they will exhaust large pharmacies – the mayor of a small municipality, where he will already have a pharmacy, of course he will not give consent to come to Pharmacy Ljubljana or Pharmacy Maribor! He will say, “No, we have our own pharmacy, we serve with it, we give no consent.” The mayor of another congregation, where there will be no pharmacy, will give his consent because he will be happy to receive a pharmacy that he has not yet had. To think that if people don't have pharmacies anymore, they won't buy pharmacy products, but it's so stupid! “If there are more pharmacies, people will heal themselves and become more and more sick.” I mean, something like that! I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. This law is more than appropriate for further consideration. I myself have had the experience of designing at least 10 pharmacies, and I have learned this activity well enough to claim completely sovereignly that what this law brings is fully improving something that currently existed in our society. It was said that the law would allow for the construction of new pharmacies in the urban environment. I do not believe this mainly because no pharmacy is so crowded and an investment for one pharmacy costs at least EUR 600,000. So find one smart person to build a pharmacy to keep it open for two or three patients who are in it right now. Next. Pharmacies and pharmacies are needed in this society and will be even more. As you can see, in the developed world of vaccinations they are also transferred to pharmacies, pharmacies are provided with advice, health checks, including blood pressure, sugar, cholesterol in the blood, all of this. Therefore, the basic purpose of what we have said today – I am not saying that this law is ideal, this law needs to be improved in the second and subsequent readings, but the basic purpose is to prevent the two multinationals mentioned from devouring these two wholesalers, who just came from the public institutions of local pharmacies, such as Ljubljana and Maribor. In that sense, we have to put ourselves in this. Finally, it is also necessary to stand on your feet when it comes to assessing what one directive means. If half of the countries in Europe interpret the directive and have also received the approval of the European Court of Justice to hold this claim, it is not necessary to end this vertical link. So it is not necessary that we therefore have to agree that these two Velegrossists devour a multinational. Therefore, the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u277	I will also support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, which does not, of course, mean that I will also support the law at the end, because I think a number of changes need to be made. I hope that, during the course of the proceedings in the National Assembly, we will be able to improve it to this extent, so that I can end up giving it my voice. Today I will not – yes, I will just say – about all the nonsense we have now heard about pharmacies and pharmacy activities. However, I look forward to this debate from another point of view. This is that today's law in force in the previous term was advocated by the SMC, which was the best law. This same SMC today proposes that we correct the mistakes made in the previous mandate. So I am looking forward to the debate we will be having at the committees and in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 15. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that in 15 minutes, this is the 21st and 5th minutes, the 79th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin.
