ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 79th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I invited a representative of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 79th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 13 July 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 4. I take it the agenda of the 79th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intangible Diseases. At its 25th extraordinary meeting on 12 July 2021, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bogomir the grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 25th extraordinary session of 12. 7. Adopted the request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall act on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 13. 5. 2021 drafted the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases and sent it to the National Assembly together with a proposal to be treated in accordance with an urgent procedure. In her explanation, she stated that the proposal for a law should be adopted following an urgent procedure due to the difficult remedial effects on the health system and health of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its decision to the Council of State, ordered that it remove the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases within two months of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time as the text of the proposal for a law on communicable diseases, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also drawn up a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum, explaining that it is a law falling within the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that a referendum is not allowed to be declared on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security and remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is 28. 6. 2021 drew up an opinion on the proposal for a law on communicable diseases and on the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a referendum. It found several shortcomings and pointed out certain legal reservations and dilemmas. Therefore, the Council of State proposes to the National Assembly to reconsider and remedy any irregularities without undue urgency, and consequently proposes that the National Assembly decide again on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was considered by the Health Committee as a parent of the labour force. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u4	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is at its 55th emergency meeting, held yesterday, 14. Seven. 2021, addressed the request of the National Council for the Renewal of the National Assembly on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted by the National Assembly at its 24th regular session 7. Seven. 2021. The Committee was provided with material requiring the State Council to take a decision on the re-decision of 12. Seven. 2021 and opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13. Seven. 2021. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, Bogomir Vnučec, on behalf of the proposer, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented the key arguments in the written opinion, as he did today. The representative of the Law-Legal Service Špela Maček Gustin reiterated that the comments from the written opinion of the ZPS remained as they were not fully addressed. It highlighted the opinion of the Council of State on Article 3, which amends Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, and stressed that this article has the highest weight in the law. The opinions of the members and members of the Committee on the appropriateness of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases were different. The opposition Members agreed that the law was illegal to prevent any deficiencies found and, above all, to give the government too wide a mandate to restrict human rights. The Coalition Members have warned that the Government is not acting alone under this Act, it is taking decisions in cooperation with the National Institute of Public Health, and they have pointed out that this is a law that would eliminate the lack of compliance with the Constitution, which was in the decision of the Constitutional Court, and this is to be resolved within two months. By a majority of the votes of all members, 10-8 against, the Committee decided that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected state councillor, dear colleagues and colleagues! Recently, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the 26-year-old law on communicable diseases was inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has set a 60-day deadline for the removal of unconstitutionality to the legislator, i.e. by 3 August this year. New Slovenia is close to people. We have heard people, we have heard that they want a broad debate on this law. Many e-mails called for a broad debate, which, unfortunately, was prevented by the Constitutional Court with the deadline mentioned above. This time, the Members of New Slovenia, except for the Constitutional Court, will turn our backs. That is why the New Slovenia Group is rejecting the law today. We will vote against it, but we expect that, not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the Slovenian public will help create such a text that will be acceptable to all. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Depending on the vaccine content available, we no longer want drastic closures, school closures, factories, and so on in our country. But we want people to choose to be vaccinated. It's actually the only solution to defeat the virus. Here I have the honour to read the invitation of Members and Members of the National Assembly to be vaccinated. I am pleased that we have been united and invited to respectable citizens and citizens. In view of the predictions of the forthcoming fourth wave of the covida-19 epidemic and the related consequences, you, citizens and citizens, the President of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups are jointly called for vaccination, as the transoccupation of the population at this moment is crucial to health and normal life. We have also been vaccinated by Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. There are enough different and effective vaccines available. Vaccination is voluntary and is one of the most important ways to combat the epidemic together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The last year was marked significantly by the covida-19 epidemic. Many government measures, decrees and laws adopted at this time have had a significant impact on our lives, social events and economic activity. The New Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are re-declaring today, was created in response to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which in early June found non-compliance with the Constitution of certain government decrees to contain the covida-19 epidemic. The Constitutional Court has repealed government decisions restricting movement. Thus, it was not in accordance with the Constitution that the curfew, the prohibition of merger and the prohibition of inter-community crossings. The current law on communicable diseases in the contested provisions states that when measures cannot prevent the introduction and spread of certain communicable diseases in Slovenia, the Government may prohibit or restrict the movement of residents in infected or directly threatened areas and prevent the collection of people by schools, cinemas, public places and other public places until the danger has ceased. Let us not forget, the right to health care is the one with which we must reach all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, and the country must take such measures as are aimed at preventing and treating epidemic diseases and controlling them. The country must also provide an accessible and capable health system. Health care must be sustainable and able to provide health services to citizens. All of this must also be provided at a time when we are facing an epidemic of covida-19. Through this prism, we are also looking at the amendments to Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are now re-declaring. The proposed amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases allows the State to fulfil the positive obligations set out in Article 51 of the Constitution in a way that establishes measures to protect the health and life of people. It is a new condition that the Government must obtain an expert evaluation before certain measures are implemented, which must include epidemiological, medical and social aspects of the proposed measures. The mandatory content of the expert evaluation is also specified, with particular attention being paid to the report on the benefits of the recommended measure and to the degree of limitation of movement and collection and other human rights in which individual measures are affected. The amendment also introduces mandatory 15 criteria and criteria to be taken into account in the preparation of the expert evaluation and in the decision-making phase of the Government on the adoption of individual measures. Time and space limits of individual measures are also laid down. The latter may be set for the shortest time necessary to provide adequate protection against the spread or communicable disease and to protect the health and life of people, but each time for a maximum of 15 days. Despite everything that has been said and after re-examination of the legal matter, I believe that the law on the measures envisaged allows for a broad field of assessment of what is the appropriate measure and how long it should last. There are also doubts as to who is responsible for taking decisions and, as a result, determining the measures by which they so affect our constitutional rights. We were also warned by the Ombudsman about certain dangers. It also mentions the principle of proportionality among the deficiencies exposed, according to which the new Article 39 of the Infectious Diseases Act should clearly classify and define measures and their means of enforcement according to the intensity and the conditions for their application. On the basis of the proposal of the amended law on communicable diseases set out in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u9	Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u10	If the coalition really heard people, we'd be talking about early elections today. The law on communicable diseases is harmful, so we will vote against it in the SAB. The law was prepared and adopted without professional discussion, without public debate and by emergency procedure. You're paying for a mistake and a price today. This government has so far faced a very poor crisis, with a visible crisis. Why? Because people trust you. They don't even trust the best measure and don't believe it because they don't trust that government and don't trust that coalition. Too many dead, too long closed schools and too few vaccinateds - you are responsible for all of this, a respected coalition. Of course, we need the Law on Infectious Diseases, and here I invite you to include in the preparation all those that need to be included in the preparation. Probably the opposition in this national council. Once again, we will oppose this harmful law. But it's sad or catastrophic to watch all your stunts after Sunday's big defeat. If you look at your words from the past, we should talk today about early elections and nothing else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. The President seems to have been really late for the hour. The proposal for a new law on communicable diseases, which is now back on our benches, seeks to implement a constitutional decision by which the Constitutional Court found that article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases is incompatible with the Constitution. In the opinion of the Constitutional Judges, the purpose of the measures must be clearly reflected in the law and should also be sufficiently precise in the definition of allowable methods or types, the extent and conditions of restricting freedom of movement and the right to assembly and association and other appropriate safeguards against the arbitrary restriction of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It has ruled that the contested regulation of this constitutional requirement is not sufficient, as it leaves to the Government to choose, on its own initiative, the ways, extent and duration of the restrictions. The government fixed the law and put it in the National Assembly. We have partially amended it here, and there has been no comfortable support in voting to ensure carelessness on the part of the proposer. 44 Members and Members voted for it, against 42. There was another last act at home. The state council voted veto. As part of our consideration of the novel itself in the Desus Group, we expressed our view that we are ahead of a very ungrateful and difficult task. In the light of the urgent control of the epidemic, it is necessary to weigh the importance of individual fundamental human rights. In dealing with such a sensitive issue, we would like more consensus, but we have also expressed doubts that this is even possible. In the Desus Group, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's own decision and also in accordance with the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we wanted the amendment to contain a restriction before the possibility of an arbitrary decision of the government. We are aware of the sensitivity of this area, which can extend deeply to fundamental human rights. That is why in the Desus Group, we supported some of the amendments containing such safeguards in the context of the consideration of the novel. Unfortunately, they weren't voted on. In the light of the rule of law, the legislator is committed to clearly defining the norm or its content. We estimate that certain concepts could or should even be defined more precisely in the novel. In the Desus Group, we want the law on communicable diseases to provide for a more active role and involvement of the National Assembly in the adoption of measures. We also share the view that the Institute of Public Health is an important participant in the preparation of the epidemiological and medical assessments, but a broader set of proposed measures is needed to assess and take into account social aspects as well. In the Desus Group, in the context of the re-decision on the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases, we will define ourselves as a majority against.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u14	The recently adopted amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases is of the view that the ruling coalition should consistently and irreparably implement the last Constitutional Court decision, which found that the applicable law was inconsistent with which the government ruled on restrictive measures by decrees and restricted freedom of assembly and freedom of movement. The Constitutional Court has decided that this has been done in a disproportionate manner and, above all, without an appropriate legal basis, with a Bianca's view. In the meantime, we were able to monitor the irrational, if not even the bizarre, position that the year 1995 and the then ruling policy were responsible for such a situation. It must be a coincidence, and it is hard to believe that the Law on Infectious Diseases, which dates back to 1995, did not foresee the apocalyptic possibilities of a deadly pandemic. In particular, if we know and know that the government has been very well aware of the shortcomings and inadequacies of the current regime since the first wave of the epidemic, of course it has not shown any interest in correcting and constitutionally balanced in the meantime. Because, of course, it is easier to rule after a 20 - year - old law that allows you to do exactly what you want to do at the time of the epidemic. Although the Constitutional Court does not claim that the government should not act at all. The measures have, of course, been and will be necessary, but they should be in line with the constitutional order. And they weren't. By an adopted law, which was not supported by unrelated Members in the first vote, this situation should be rectified. However, there are reasonable doubts if what is written is indeed sufficient to meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Reasonable doubts as to whether the method is appropriate and if all of this is indeed proportionate. The adopted law lacks safeguards to ensure the proportionality of government action or sufficient balance and barriers so that other systems can respond in the same way to government decision-making. It is true, as the rulings claim, that the legal basis for establishing measures to prevent communicable disease must be regulated and consistent with the Constitution. And it is only partly true that, in the event of the untimely abolition of the unconstitutional provisions of the law on communicable diseases, irreparable consequences could arise as the legal basis for establishing measures to prevent and spread the virus could become unconstitutional. No, Your Honor, it is already unconstitutional and it is likely that the law does not abolish this unconstitutionality. And it is certainly not true that by vetoing it, the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation is blocked, since the Constitutional Court laid down in the sentence of the provision a clear safeguard to apply the existing law to the elimination of the finding of non-conformity. The fact is, between the first and second waves of the epidemic, European countries have adapted legislation to all the negative dimensions of the pandemic. Those who take the principles of rule of law seriously have also considered the constitutional framework of anti-Korona legislation and government measures and adapted them to these constitutional frameworks. Unfortunately, in Slovenia this thought has diminished. The responsibility for this should be assigned to the rulers and should not be avoided by today's vote. We will not once again support the unrelated novelties of the Law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u15	Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President, and a nice good evening to you all. The pandemic that swept all the countries of the world last year surprised us all very much. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to respond to this pandemic quickly and effectively, and therefore, pursuant to the Law on Infectious Diseases, adopted in 1995, it also adopted decrees on the temporary and general prohibition of the movement and collection of people in public places and areas. Here I would like to point out that most citizens have respected all these measures by our government in order to contain the epidemic as soon as possible. Many of them have unselfishly offered their hand to help both the wider community and individuals. The group of instigators, which has submitted to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the decisions on the temporary and general prohibition on the movement and collection of people, has, of course, been different in their opinion, and I also take this opinion into account. On the basis of this initiative, the Constitutional Court issued a decision in May this year establishing that the second and third paragraphs of Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which discuss the restriction of movement and the collection of people in public places, are inconsistent, I repeat, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court of the second and third paragraphs of Article 39 of the Act has not repealed, as these two provisions may still apply until the finding of non-compliance has been corrected. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account the Constitutional Court’s decision and has also drawn up a proposal for amendments within the time limit and a supplement to the Law on Infectious Diseases. The fact is, however, that a number of comments and concerns have emerged at the very stage of this legislative procedure on the law, which, in our view, are still relevant and, if possible, should be taken into account. As stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u18	Today, we really would not need special philosophy and big words. The fact is that the new Law on Infectious Diseases, such as it is, is not acceptable. Not only does it not agree with a number of legal professionals and the Ombudsman, who jointly point out that the amendment does not really take account of the Constitutional Court's decision, but it gives even greater powers to the government than it should have as executive authority. The novel was not agreed by the State Council, which voted veto on the law, so we are here today. And last but not least, our people don't agree with her. Hundreds of e-mails have been sent to us by Members of Parliament these days. In them, the citizens urged us not to accept this novel in a single voice. As with all these loud calls from the people, the silence of the government is also very clear. The fact that there was no representative of the government said more than a thousand words yesterday when we re-examined the amendment's proposal on the parent committee. When you don't have any arguments, you're quiet. And the government kept quiet. That is why, today, the views of those sentinel groups who advocated and defended the amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases are even more surprising. From yesterday to today, nothing has changed. Clearly, however, the awareness of those who have tried to circumvent the will of people by banning the referendum has changed until recently. Dear citizens and citizens, let me just remind you that if the amendment of the law were adopted today, this government coalition would have prohibited you from making a referendum decision on this law, because a meeting to vote on the decision to ban the referendum has already been called to stock and would have taken place 15 minutes after this meeting. These were indeed the purposes of this government. That is why today's coup d'état with the coalition and its supporters is the victory of the opposition, even more so is the victory of the people, or the victory of all those who have been warned of the danger of this novel. Recently, 42 Members and Members voted against the law. We are Members of Parliament and Members, who have been sincerely defending the same position all the time — this law is harmful. As it appears, some members of the coalition will also join our votes against today. A sudden change in their attitude, virtually overnight, may raise the question of their honesty. Today's collapse of the Infectious Diseases Act will in fact reflect two moments. Those who were aware of the harmfulness and danger of government change have already given up their support to the law in the first vote. However, those who deny the support of the amendment only today, while they have been bitterly and faithfully defending and justifying the proposed amendments yesterday evening, will vote against the law only and only because of fear of revealing the fact that the ruling coalition does not have 46 votes. The fact that a government coalition of such mathematics gives priority to content is a sad fact. Respectable citizens and citizens, this is your government. The unconstitutional law will remain in force today because of government arrogance, so we expect the government to prepare a law immediately, not until September, which will fully implement the Constitutional Court's decision. Otherwise, in the LMŠ Group, we will see government inaction as the intention of a planned delay to enforce the law under which the Government issued non-constitutional decisions. No, we do not trust this government that it will take the initiative to refrain from unconstitutional repression and, finally, in the past, they have also fought for human rights for the price of life, and today there will be enough pressure on the right voting button. In doing so, some of us will be honest, but some of us will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, at the outset, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I should like to thank the councillors and the councillors of the State Council, who understood a clear and loud message from the opposition, which in the legislative process very consistently and clearly drew attention to the weaknesses of the proposed novel and voted against. They further heard a clear message from citizens and citizens, civil society, professions and put a procrastination veto on the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases. This enabled today's re-voting and gave us the opportunity to re-emphasize the exceptional weaknesses of this novel, the non-compliance with the Constitution and the arbitrariness of the provisions. Thus, since the beginning of the legislative path, we have been strongly opposed by the new UNP because it has not been for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and has not exercised their protection even less. The government has once more allowed itself to cut down heavily on the human rights field, which in the epidemic has already been the target of various government measures in one way or another. Under the line, the Constitutional Court ordered the Government to turn back to the starting point and to bring its rulings under the roof of constitutionality, not to be further pushed aside, but by the Government, in fact, to do so with the proposed novel, past any, but a wide public debate, which, of course, justifiably upset the Slovenian civil and professional public. This novel does not in any way implement the Constitutional Court decision. It creates some kind of legal basis that, while ignoring the principle of proportionality and democracy, legal security and predictability, the full disregard of the rule of law gives the Government exceptional powers to allow exceptional and arbitrary interference with human rights and freedoms and freedoms for an indefinite period. That is not enough, the government has decided to propose an amendment after a reduced procedure, without adequate information and public participation, even though the consequences of the measures would be borne directly by the public or our citizens and citizens. The proposed law does not in any way implement the Constitutional Court's decision, it does not protect our people, but gives the government legislative leave to essentially do it unconstitutionally throughout the past year. The total ignorance of the National Assembly and its role in the system of barriers and balances and the system of power-sharing, which clearly defines the government's subjection to the National Assembly, is also among the forces of controversial changes in the Government's law, and not the other way around, although the Constitutional Court in its decision has made clear the importance of the principle of democracy and the fact that the rule of law must not be so vague as to allow the executive authorities to regulate the legal matter in its original form. The legal solutions show the desire of the current authorities to seize power to the point where the National Assembly and its coalition majority would only be the scene of parliamentary democracy. This is not only at odds with the fundamental requirements of our constitutional regime, it is an insult to all citizens and citizens whose representatives we are Members and Members of Parliament. Derogation of Parliament, violations of the principle of power-sharing, underestimation of parliamentary democracy, ignorance of its own people, and concentration of power in one body remains the government's iron repertoire when it comes to its decisions, legislative proposals or views on current content. Even in the case of the new Law on Infectious Diseases, there is no difference. Instead of bringing clear criteria or limits to the adoption of restrictive measures under strict and consistent parliamentary supervision, the government has done exactly the opposite in mocking the rule of law, the Constitutional Court and Parliament. The government can be comforted if the measures of the novel are legal, but they are certainly not legitimate or constitutional and even less ethical and moral. Thus, according to our firm belief, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, many Slovenian lawyers, interested professions this novel does not eliminate unconstitutionality and legal voids, but merely tolerates the arbitrary rule by decrees to some legal level. If today the coalition is actually going to vote against its own proposed law, as the Prime Minister has said today, as is evident today from the positions, we welcome this move, but at the same time we are aware that the process of adopting the new Law on Infectious Diseases has not been completed, for it has already been evident from today's forecast that the government will try again in the autumn. That's why we're warning you, take a different path. First listen to people, read in detail what the Constitutional Decision says, implement properly, listen to the legal profession and civil society, prepare a broad public debate in cooperation with the health and legal profession, and prepare changes that will take into account the prohibition of arbitrary interventions into human rights and freedoms and implement legal solutions that will be appropriate, clear, specific, human, ethical and moral. Otherwise, all you bought today was time and passion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. In Slovenia, the people have authority, and you can be sure that when elected representatives of the same people take the path they should walk, the people will exercise their right to direct decision and will take their own power at the edge. That is exactly what people did on Sunday when they defended the water against the private privatisation appetites of the government of Janez Janša. They have also opposed the policy of repression, oppression, threats and insults that Janez Janša has had for a year and a half. For a week now, a meeting of the National Assembly has been held, and for a week, we have been defined by the tsunamis of this universal earthquake. The referendum was followed by a decision by the Council of State, which voted veto on the Law on Infectious Diseases. A few moments ago, the decision on the demographic fund was postponed because the government of Janez Janša had no votes for him. And now we will obviously be united throughout Parliament to vote against the law on communicable diseases, including government parties, which were so bitterly advocated a few moments ago. This is a complete debacle of existing ruling policies, perfectly consistent with the debacle in the acquisition of protective equipment, in the management of the epidemic and in the protection of vulnerable older people in citizens' homes, and the last disaster is the organization of vaccination. One of the reasons why the government of Janez Janša in a year and a half brought defeat after defeat is its incompetence. The second reason is her opportunism. Since the beginning, the epidemic has not understood as the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years, but as an opportunity, as an opportunity to concrete itself in power and to give public funds, the resources of all citizens and citizens, to the extent possible, into the private pockets of its friends. The epidemic has come to its attention in all these ways in particular from the point of view of repression, the suppression of the democratic desire of citizens and citizens in this country, under the cover of the spread of communicable diseases. And this is the first problem of the law on infectious diseases, as prepared by the government of John Janša, and it is the same as it has had in the last year and a half. The restrictions it has and can implement under the law have not been used to protect the public health of citizens and citizens, but it has used it to oppress citizens and citizens as a political body. On the other hand, it has placed so many exceptions in its own limitations that, after an accident, these restrictive measures could not function in the pursuit of the public health monitors to which they referred. Workers were still able to go to work in infected factories. Once things opened up, the second time they closed. Reimbursement for sick workers would not be provided. And all these restrictive measures didn't help anything. The epidemic went on. The infected grew exponentially. From home to work, from workplace to other households, from that household to the home of the elderly, with the final balance sheet of 4 000 400 deaths and a large part of these deaths, we can mark them as excessive deaths and avoid them if they were not so incompetent and so beset by government ladies and gentlemen. In Levika, we are aware that movement in epidemic situations needs to be limited in order to prevent the spread of infection. But this should be done with the thought of public health, with a view to protecting citizens and citizens, not with the thought of some foreign corporate interests that even in the midst of an epidemic in infected factories want to stack metal pieces for the German automotive industry or for people to lock themselves in their homes, that, God forbid, they wouldn't come to the streets to tell you what we really think about the government of Janez Janša. The new law on communicable diseases, which we are dealing with today, should be a tool against the epidemic. In fact, it is only a tool to combat, in the light of Hojs' decisions, and we will once again vote in Levika against this, against the incompetent management of the epidemic and against the abuse of the epidemic for the partial purposes of the government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. An explanation? Who wants to explain the voice? Meira Hot has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Since the very beginning of the legislative procedure for the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases, social Democrats have consistently pointed out the shortcomings of the law, the fact that you have drawn up an extremely indeterminate law that allows unlimited powers for the government during the epidemic, which depreciates Parliament and does not actually implement the Constitutional Court's decision. We're very surprised what 24 hours brings. When we tried yesterday, this law was excellent, clear, determined, properly implements the constitutional decision, when a new morning happens, a new dream, a new general amnesia, and this law is in fact not necessarily needed at this point in time, and it is not so much defined and so on. In fact, we're kind of glad that you missed Esmeralda free, but we sincerely hope that you won't be deaf and blind in the fall. We will vote against the law today, as we have always done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. It's because we're making a fool of ourselves, to some extent it's part of Parliament's theatricality to make a fool out of Parliament's seriousness, and that's crazy over the edge. We have a constitutional parliamentary democracy so that laws do not essentially determine the street in the loudest way, sometimes in a lynching way, sometimes in the same way as they say they tremble. Now, in essence, the chairman should apologize to me. Less than a day ago, just after 10:00 p.m., you were defending this marriage with five veins. I slept in Ivančni Gorica, which has long been controlled by the SDS, and we have not experienced any enlightenment there. At least I didn't. In the meantime, you've experienced it as a matter of fact. You've had it! Do you know why this is dangerous? Someone a little more intelligent is going to program two three shoes or a shoe, and he's going to charge you five chain mails, send you to parliament, and the law is going to fall. Yeah, no, just take your head off! After all, I can do it if I get back to programming. You're literally doing piss from the legislative process. And what you are doing is called confusion in the Slovenian language. In the dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, your policy has long been marked as Janism. Whoever's doing this is delusional. I've only written off the last 24 hours. I beg your pardon. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u27	Your Honor, I understand it's already late, but please raise your hands, how many of you are interested in explaining your voice. [[…]] I'll start the list. Please, everyone who is interested, please report that you will not then drip one after the other. The application shall be made. The first one has the word Dejan Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Just two minutes of your attention, please. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But, President, I don't get it, everybody talks, I can't even hear myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u29	My colleague, Dean Jedhan, is asking for some attention. I'm asking for some peace, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u30	At the time we were looking for attention, I wasted 15 seconds, but so be it. I have to say that I have been fighting this law, which, once again, I have said a million times, is harmful and dangerous. The majority of this fight seemed to me somehow when I was invited on Monday at 12 p.m. to exchange arguments with the coalition, and I stood there alone on TV and Mr. Igor Bergant and no one else. At that time, I realized that something would be wrong and that you would probably take a step back. And it's good that you made it. That's what I'm saying. Of course I'll vote against it. But it is also important to think when we vote against what is a step forward. I would suggest it to everyone myself, but only you who are ruling can take it out. Please, from now on, when you choose, let the experts, not the experts, communicate with us. That's an important reason why people don't believe anymore. And secondly, look, we got almost a million e-mails, people standing in front of Parliament behind. I talked to them. I immediately told them that I believed in the epidemic and that I believed in vaccination. But people are frustrated because no one talks to them. All who talk and talk about sickness talk to each other and spread their truth. But there is no dialogue that the silent majority would like to observe. Both of you to put experts and not stutterers in the right places, and secondly to start a general dialogue. Only you on the right can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u31	The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u32	I'll vote against it. That's not even a question from the very beginning. What is more interesting is that the opinion of the organic advocates of this law changed today at 5 p.m. unanimously, not unanimously. The opinion has changed unanimously. And that's what worries me more. Not as an army of computer bots sending e-mails, but to change one person's opinion on the orders of the entire parliamentary group, but also those who support it. That's dangerous. That means either you've lied before or you're lying now. Just make up your mind. That's definitely not right. The only thing that's okay is that this marriage is going to fall today. But it's not right what you're actually doing. At least we would insist on our story to the end, even if we lost at the end. And one way or another, they're gonna lose. Once again, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u33	Dear colleagues, I ask you to stick to the rules of procedure. We're here to explain the voice, not the debate. Marriage has already been discussed and will be discussed. So I suggest you just state why you're going to vote one way or another. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues! I will also vote decisively against this harmful law that infringes on fundamental human rights. On the one hand, I am extremely glad that the night after us, which was a little chilly, the brain got oxygen again, sobered up, and today we are faced with the fact that this harmful law is also falling, which people will be happy to do, because such a grave interference with human rights as they were in this marriage should absolutely not be. Such a law should not even come to third reading, even less to veto, and the absolute right decision is today as it will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u35	Marko Koprivc also has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Members! Look, there is no dilemma, I will vote absolutely against, against this extremely harmful and dangerous law, the fascist law that the government actually wanted to abuse on behalf of the epidemic to strengthen its power and to limit freedom and human rights for citizens and citizens. But, dear colleagues, something else is more interesting, and I'm kind of running away. This today's government manoeuvre, the government majority, by which the government of Janez Janša avoided voting on two laws, which until yesterday or this morning were said to be the most important and urgently adopted: the Law on the Demographic Fund and the Law on Infectious Diseases. You know why? The answer is very simple. So we can stay in power for a few more months. That's why. That's why you're willing to eat the word. You're ready to deny what you were up to yesterday. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u37	Comrade Koprivc, explanation of vote [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u38	You are ready and you have a face to vote against today just to be in power for a few more days. [[…]] I'm calling on the government and the National Assembly to move out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u39	Comrade Koprivc, you can't call, that's the explanation for the voice. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u40	the non-constitution to eliminate unconstitutionality as soon as possible and to vote on a law that will effectively eliminate non-compliance with the Constitutional Court. [[…]] But today, of course, I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-15-SDZ8-Izredna-79.ana.u41	My friend Koprivec and everyone else, if anyone else is going to come forward, I'd say there's a little bit of oxygen now. Please stick to the purpose of explanations of vote, that's to present your own arguments. This is not the time you have to talk about your political opponent. Anyone else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 1 to 78 votes in favour. [[The vote was 1.]] [[Against 78.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 79th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
