ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Monika Gregorčič from 15:00 to 20:00, Janja Slug from 1:00 p.m., Ivan Hršak, Franc Jurša, Franc Trček until 12 noon, Marko Koprivc from 17.30 p.m., Marijan Pojbič, Mateja Udovč from 11:00 to 13:00 and Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, cooperation outside the meeting of the National Assembly has not been announced by any Member or Member of the Parliament using an application for a remote meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Act on Medicinal Products within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Anja Bah Žibert, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good morning, everyone! Allow me to report on the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Medicinal Products Act. At its 12th regular meeting, the Health Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. Mr Pogačnik presented the supplementary explanation on behalf of the applicant. He stressed that they wanted to supplement the existing law with four contents. The first discusses the accessibility of security studies in the public that are considered business secrets. The second content of the proposal is that the safety of vaccines should be checked by double-blind studies using placebo in the control group. The third content relates to vaccines authorised in reduced and simplified procedures. This should not be used in compulsory vaccination programmes in the view of the applicants. The fourth amendment, however, prohibits medicines and vaccines that alter human DNA. According to the applicant, the proposal for a law is based on the principle of proportionality, which in the content under consideration constitutes a harmonisation of the specific legal nature of compulsory vaccination with the specific requirements for ensuring its safety. The Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health Mag. Maria Magajne. She pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not support the bill. Among other things, it has pointed out that medicines are governed by common European legislation, which Member States are obliged to transpose into their legal order and comply with. The quality, safety and efficacy standards shall be the same regardless of the type of procedure for obtaining a marketing authorisation or the legal basis. The European Commission shall issue a marketing authorisation for all Member States. In accordance with the Regulation, all new vaccines are subject to a centralised marketing authorisation procedure within the European Medicines Agency. The documentation in the application for a marketing authorisation or vaccine is a business secret due to the information which is the intellectual property of the manufacturer. Summary of product characteristics for physicians and instructions for use for patients or users are publicly available from the documentation. Each medicinal product used in humans and animals goes through a special process during which the safety and efficacy of this medicinal product is assessed in non-clinical and clinical studies. Medicinal products that do not achieve a favourable safety and efficacy relationship during development shall be discontinued. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service presented by Špela Cat Gustin. This stressed, inter alia, that a more appropriate text should be drawn up in the framework of the legislative procedure, which would clearly reflect the purpose of the proposed law or of the legislator in relation to the objective of the proposal itself. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by the State Council of Mags. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission was not in favour of the bill and pointed out that the Commission had addressed the bill with all the attention and care given that the text had been tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. The representative of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Sabina Zalar, explained that the scope of medicines is governed by extensive European legislation. All data on the registration of medicinal products known and regulated by law ensure that only safe, quality and effective medicinal products are placed on the market. The main objective is to protect health and the proposed amendments to the law pose a risk to public health. Some other representatives of the invited representatives also submitted their views on the bill below. The debate has shown that vaccination is the greatest achievement of modern medicine before communicable diseases. In all of this, it is also important to have an appropriate degree of transparency, and we must also be aware that certain data are business and intellectual secrets that are not fully available to the public. The role of public health regulator is therefore very important. The country must have sufficient safeguards and protocols to ensure the safety of medicinal products and vaccines. Given that the draft law has been tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters, the proposal calls for respectful treatment. In view of the above, the Committee concluded that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act was not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the 5,000 electorates and voters of the Magi. Gregor Kos to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The introduction of a proposal for a drug law is our creative assistance, our call for social attention at a time when people at risk are observed how our country is being steered unconsciously through the declared crisis to the detriment of the people and in the interests of the business interests of certain manufacturers, such as vaccine producers or the proper professional expression of producers of experimental genetic therapy. That people think properly about the current situation in the world and in our country also confirms the decisions of the Council of Europe. In its resolution, it expressly and decisively prohibits any discrimination against people on the basis of vaccination against SARS-COV-2, covido-19, especially violence or coercion, which we are already aware of. Who in this country dare to ignore the most important supranational organization for the protection of human rights and freedoms? The People's Initiative also argues that no vaccine, but less experimental genetic therapy can and must not be subject to any obligation, and in particular no declared crisis must deter vaccine producers from respecting the transparency of the manufacturing process or testing of products in terms of safety of use and at the same time liability for harmful consequences that are a fact. We have heard several times from your mouth how to fight corruption, while at the same time blocking the proposal of a human initiative that would prevent the concealment of security studies and create greater transparency, which is the only mechanism to prevent corruption, and do nothing about our concrete warnings that at the Public Agency for Medicines and Medical Aids from restricting the current director in 2018 they no longer know the registered lobbyist contacts of the economic interest association of pharmacists and no further lobbyist contact since 2019. We demand that the Public Medicines Agency cease to hide safety studies on vaccines and ensure vaccine safety. The fact is, honourable Members and Members, that as long as you allow the concealment of security studies, you cannot expect public confidence. As we have heard from the Health Committee, the former President of the Medical Chamber also publicly acknowledges that the opinion of the section on the topic of vaccines is not uniform. What is important is that this place should be followed by a civilised exchange of arguments, which, unheard of, always prevents the argument of power and even the intimidation of that profession, which hopes to speak publicly, which in fact follows the basic axiom of medicine, does not primarily harm. This proves the smallness and at the same time the sale of scarecrows and the vast heart of those who cannot be silent. Slovenian legislation still shockingly sets out the obligation of research and studies on medicines and vaccines, on their composition, on efficiency and harmful side effects as a business secret. Although the information officer on the non-constitutionality of that provision has already made public a legal opinion, no law still regulates an effective legal procedure and means in cases of rejection of treatment, vaccination or the occurrence of adverse effects of side effects. The decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue from 2004 is still not respected or implemented. The Law on Infectious Diseases even excludes the liability of doctors and healthcare professionals for professional errors, of course also for harmful effects on the health of an individual due to drug or vaccine impairment. During the year of the declared crisis, you deliberately intimidated us and destroyed us. On the average, you have denied us our fundamental human rights and freedoms. Moreover, you have abused our public media space, in which you manipulated the dictionary of solidarity in a deliberate and completely inappropriate manner. Regrettably, solidarity is an economic concept that has no meaning in individual or collective health, except for creating psychological confusion and the plight of people of faith. However, this economic concept clearly led you, but the Latin word solitus means firm, and this word used to denote the conduct of a group of people in a similar situation, having similar obligations and interests. The right word to guide you in a crisis situation in which you have carelessly thrown us into is, of course, compassion. There is compassion in human relations among humans. That means you feel other people and not just yourself. This means that you feel the desires and fears of other people and not just your own. This is where we need you, and this is where we're waiting. Voting is your responsibility, which we will not forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Janez Poklukar, Minister of Health, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The main purpose of the proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act, ZZdr-2B, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 5,000 voters and voters, is to achieve a higher level of vaccine safety by incorporating the principles of transparency, proportionality and prudence. To this end, the applicant has included four elements: publicly available safety studies for medicinal products with the addition of Article 68 of the ZZdr-2, double-blind safety studies for all medicinal products, incompatibilities with the authorisation of medicinal products in reduced and simplified procedures for medicinal products in compulsory vaccination programmes, and the prohibition of the use of medicinal products that alter human DNA. The field of medicinal products within the European Union is governed by Directive 2001/83/EC, which Member States need to transpose into their legal order and comply with. The ZZdr-2 Act is in accordance with that Directive. For all medicines, including vaccines obtained by means of biotechnology, EMA should be authorised in accordance with Regulation 726/2004/EC under a centralised procedure at European Union level at the European Medicines Agency. Prior to obtaining the vaccine or any other medicinal product, the development process is carried out through the difficult processes defined by EMA, the ICH guidelines, which determine its safety and efficacy in non-clinical and clinical studies. When all the data are collected, the EMA expert group will carefully review and assess whether the benefits of the new vaccine or other medicinal products outweigh the risks. If, during development, it fails to demonstrate effectiveness and a favourable relationship between safety and risk, it shall be waived. The development of vaccines or other medicinal products in accordance with the provisions of EMA and the ICH Guidelines is based on a scientific process that is regularly complemented by the latest findings made publicly available on the EMA website. The Summary of Product Characteristics and the Package Leaflet should include, inter alia, all warnings regarding its use, method of administration and dosing, precautions and anticipated adverse reactions. The main role of EMA and all national medicines agencies in the European Union is to represent the public interest and individual's right to safe medicines. When the vaccine is on the market in the European Union, a pharmacovigilance product that records all adverse reactions starts to be taken from the mildest to the most severe. This is important because some side effects are so rare that they are only detected when enough people are given the vaccine. No vaccine used in the compulsory vaccination programme may be authorised under a simplified procedure or with reduced documentation, even when we are speaking to DNA non-replacement. All vaccines in accordance with European Union legislation belong to a group of medicinal products subject to specific control, the provisions of ZZdr-2 are in accordance with the provisions of the Directive governing the field of medicinal products at European Union level. Therefore, any amendment to the ZZdr-2, including Article 68, would have no effect on the authorisation of a vaccine at European Union level under a centralised procedure. On the basis of the above facts and reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. The position will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The topic of vaccination has been dealt with for the third time in the last month in the National Assembly, and probably not for the last time in the light of the Coronavirus epidemic we have witnessed. This time, we have before us an amendment to the Medicinal Products Act, which focuses mainly on the safety of the components contained in vaccines, while at the same time proposing public disclosure of these ingredients and safety studies by vaccine manufacturers. On the home working body, the bill proposed by the voter and electorate group has not received sufficient support for further consideration, but this proposal is a good opportunity to discuss some problems related to vaccination and vaccination. To emphasise, vaccination is one of the most important public health measures that make a very effective contribution to the prevention and control of communicable diseases in both the world and us. Unlike mandatory vaccinations, for which vaccination in Slovenia is also relatively high compared to other European Union countries, vaccination in the case of recommended vaccinations is low and lagging behind the average. The question is, why is there such a low degree of transplantation in the case of voluntary vaccination. The answer can also be found in the lists of information available to an individual about the composition of vaccines and studies. Therefore, the question raised by the amendment to the Medicinal Products Act is about publicly available safety studies, according to our on-the-spot assessment. Under the current legislation, safety studies are treated as a business secret and the applicant wants to supplement the Medicinal Products Act in such a way that certain product information, including marketing authorisation data, the Summary of Product Characteristics, the Package Leaflet and so on, is not considered as a business secret. Such an amendment is also supported by the Information Officer, who considers that access to comprehensive information relating to the vaccine does not guarantee the individual’s right to independence in the decision on treatment. When it comes to weighing between public health and the protection of users, on the one hand, and on the other hand the interests of pharmaceutical companies, the Authority has no doubt, in the opinion of the Authority, that public health and human health have an advantage over the business interests of pharmaceutical companies. In the SAB Group, we attach this view to it, and we believe that strengthening quality and affordable public health is a priority. From this point of view, we support the intention of the proposal. Therefore, we did not oppose the proposal of the new MPs on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and will be presented by Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! When considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the Medicinal Products Act, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by a group of electorates and voters, we can first conclude that such a debate is welcome, of course, but that there is a need for great caution before certain beliefs are generated. We are talking about the safety of vaccines that have prevented the spread of truly severe infectious diseases and are the greatest achievement of modern medicine in this area. According to the applicants, the main purpose of today's proposal is to implement the basic principles aimed at ensuring the safety of vaccines, the principles of transparency, proportionality and precaution. The applicant included four elements in the text: publicly available safety studies for medicinal products, double-blind safety studies for all medicinal products, incompatibilities with the authorisation of medicinal products in reduced and simplified procedures for medicinal products in mandatory vaccination programmes, and the prohibition of the use of medicinal products that alter human DNA. On the other hand, the section notes that the scope of medicinal products is already governed by extensive and strict European legislation, which Member States are obliged to respect. All procedures for the registration of medicinal products governed by legislation shall ensure that only safe, quality and effective medicinal products are placed on the market. The European Commission shall issue a marketing authorisation for all Member States. In accordance with the Regulation, all new vaccines are subject to a centralised marketing authorisation procedure within the European Medicines Agency. The documentation in the application for authorisation of a medicinal product or vaccine is a business secret due to the information which is the intellectual property of the producers. Summary of product characteristics for physicians and instructions for use for users are made publicly available from the documentation. Each medicinal product used in humans and animals goes through a special process during which the safety and efficacy of this medicinal product are assessed in specific studies and the benefits are weighed. In the Desus Group we welcome this kind of debate. The initiative of 5,000 voters and voters is of course legitimate, but we believe that any creation of conviction in this sensitive area must be supported by arguments and scientific knowledge. After the discussion, the members of the home working body agreed that the law was not suitable for further consideration, and that would be the position of the Desus Group of Members today. We believe that the legislation currently in force is appropriate and includes all necessary safeguards to ensure the safety of medicinal products and vaccines. In the Desus Group, we believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished minister, distinguished motioner, all present, welcome! The proposed change is good because it follows the goal of having quality and safe medicines in our country. This is fundamental for every citizen. Any medicinal product which has been temporarily authorised must in no way be used in a compulsory vaccination programme. The proposaler is right here and we support this idea. Compulsory vaccinations are necessary as this ensures the collective health of the population. These are vaccines that have undergone a number of tests over the decades. Such vaccines may be considered safe with care. However, vaccines that come into the market quickly as a response to a particular virus are undoubtedly in the shadows of doubt. There have not been enough tests for such vaccines and it is impossible to predict the long-term impact on the human body. However, they must by no means become part of the compulsory vaccination programme. Man is part of nature, and if he decides to introduce a certain synthetic preparation into his body, he must be 100% aware of the contents of this and the possible effects on the body. However, this information can only be provided through long-term studies. The biggest problem with new vaccines is the right to information. People should be objectively aware of all information relating to the vaccine. The State should ensure that all information circulating among people is properly shaken and selected through a specific institution. More and more calls from individuals and various associations to oppose vaccines are being made, especially for the rapid spread of these platforms. In this mass of information, it is impossible for an average citizen to generate an opinion. The State should ensure that more public representations of such or different views are made, and in this way it could make sure that a number of doubts fall away. Strictly locking experts into institute offices is particularly harmful to small people, as confusion occurs. The European Medicines Agency is also concerned about an agency that is too remote for people. We used to do this kind of analysis with local experts, and now everything moves abroad. It is very interesting what agencies we have, given that the European Union is based on economic integration. These experts should cooperate with skeptics and advocates. We should present purely professional arguments in a human-friendly way. This estrangement of professions from ordinary people is seen too often, and it is for this reason that doubters and theorists of various conspiracies are given power. Sometimes the vaccination was self-evident, but today it's gone. This situation is still evident today when there is a large proportion of those interested in vaccination among the elderly, and we cannot say that for the younger generations. The theory of conspiracy should be answered solely with comprehensible scientific facts. These theories will continue to be more and more, so it is important to think carefully about how the country will respond to these kinds of actions. It is certainly a novelty in society, which can also destabilize a stable country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert, following the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Thank you again, chairman. In 2018 NIJZ published a scientific monograph entitled Vaccination: views and attitudes of key public to vaccination in Slovenia. The review was given by Dr. Bozidar Voljč. I doubt that the author was aware of his prophetic words at the time when he wrote in the introduction: “Despite the major social changes that have changed the order of priorities in public health over the past two decades, the control of infectious diseases is still among its most important duties. We live differently than we once did, and infectious diseases can take thousands who travel the planet every day in a few days to every end of the world." End of quote. A good year ago, that's exactly what we experienced. During the night, the world and Slovenia faced a dangerous covid-19 virus. The fight with him is unforgivable. We had to get used to different ways of life. What was formerly considered to be a matter of self - determination is no longer the case today. We had to adopt a different way of life and the measures necessary to control the spread of the virus. Not only because of ourselves, but also because of others, especially those in risk groups. At that time, to whom was all our attention directed? Doctors fighting for life and science. Science that has been able to develop a vaccine in less than a year, a vaccine that protects health and saves lives. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also support the progress of science in the development and effective use of medicines and vaccines. Do we even imagine how much good and effective drugs help people to cope with their problems and make them easier or better to live? Are we even aware of the achievement of vaccines? Without them, they would die and disappear for generations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have taken full responsibility for the amendment of the law tabled by the group of 5,000 voters and, precisely because of the responsibility we have, we cannot support such a amendment. We agree with the bill's proponents that transparency is also important in this area, but we believe that it is not in the way it is proposed. In the country, we have competent institutions that have to do their work and act appropriately in the event of irregularities. On the Health Committee, we have also heard from the proponents that vaccines that do not have long-term studies lasting at least seven to 10 years are inappropriate. Can you imagine what that would mean for mankind today when we are facing a pandemic? The least I can say about this is that this kind of statement is harmful because it frightens and deters people. Even more so because cross-section is essential. According to the World Health Organization and other professional sources, vaccination of children worldwide prevents about 2.5 million victims per year. It's information that tells everything by itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the week of the fight against cancer. I am pleased that we also have a subcommittee in the National Assembly aimed at monitoring cancers in the country. In the middle of this week's fight against cancer is its control with vaccination and among the highlights is the vaccination of children against hepatitis B and HPV. The profession emphasises that on a global scale, about 15% of all cancers can be attributed to the infection. Infectious diseases do not know the boundaries of our homes, countries, or continents. They don't choose infectious diseases. Fighting them is hard. The development of vaccines and medicines is crucial in this fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, the motioner! Today we have on the table the amendment of the drug law presented to the National Assembly by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. We welcome the active participation of citizens in the legislative process in the List of Marjan Šarc, and consider the proposed solutions to such proposals with great care and respect. Vaccines are one of the greatest achievements of medicine and pharmaceutical science. Vaccination has treated more lives than any other medical intervention. In recent times, however, doubts and distrust of vaccines and vaccinations have been strengthened, as the World Health Organization has recently declared one of the greatest threats to public health. The proposer, as the objectives of the amendment to the Medicinal Law, cites increasing vaccine safety, trust in vaccines and reducing the possibility of serious and persistent side effects of vaccination. We support the goals of the novel in the List of Marjan Šarc, but we do not believe that we would be able to achieve this by proposing the law that we have on the table today. The proposed solutions should not be used in compulsory vaccination programmes for medicinal products authorised under simplified or specific procedures. The definition of double-blind studies as a permanent part of clinical trials, the definition of safety studies as information of a public nature and the prohibition of medicinal products or vaccines that alter human DNA. These solutions, which may seem to be attractive at the very first time, as the President of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has pointed out at the meeting of the parent body, could lead to situations where certain vaccines could no longer be available in the country or certain groups of medicines, such as advanced medicines, which are very important for patients with rare diseases. It is also important to highlight the proposed completion of a clinical trial for vaccines based on double-blind studies. Such a change in the case of a particular medicinal product already in existence could lead to a situation in which an individual could become sick during the test for a disease that could be prevented by a vaccine already registered. Medicinal products are governed by the European Union's common legislation on medicinal products which we have transposed into our legal order. The development of any medicinal product intended for human or animal use shall be carried out through difficult procedures with the European Medicines Agency and, if the product does not achieve efficacy and adequate safety, shall be discontinued. With regard to the registration of vaccines, it is important to point out that simplified or specific procedures do not constitute lower vaccine standards. In other words, the standards on safety, quality, efficacy of vaccines are the same regardless of the type of marketing authorisation procedure. When making decisions, we take into account the opinion of the profession, trust the verified and proven facts, and because of this novel of the Medicinal Products Act, we cannot support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, distinguished motioner, all hailed! Have pharmaceutical companies, the pharmaceutical industry become stronger than individual countries or even groups of countries? As we follow the negotiations between the European Union and individual vaccine producers, we might suspect that they are becoming stronger. We can't close our eyes for the past 30, 40 years, the pharmaceutical industry has acquired a status no one else has. Are you aware that if side-effects occur in their products, this is not the same as in the aircraft if the electronic equipment fails and the manufacturer is guilty, or in the car if the drive assembly fails? No, no, no. The burden of costs must be borne by countries, not producers. Do you realize that when different agencies eventually accept approval or not, they do not work on their own studies, but they do read and control documents delivered to them by those who have an economic interest — manufacturers? On the basis of their research, their documents, I reiterate, those who have an economic interest are making decisions. And they managed to keep security studies secret in most countries. We all understand that technological procedures, because they are also innovations, are a technological secret, but they managed to keep security studies secret, even in Slovenia. That is why the Social Democrats support the part of the law that speaks of greater access to data. If only one citizen or citizen of Slovenia is interested in what is said in the security study, he should have the right to look at it, but does not have that right. The argument that it is such a European legal order does not hold back, because if we really do not agree with the European legal order, we, like all the countries of the European Union, have the opportunity and the right to demand a change, but we are only humblely silent. Therefore, if the data were more public, the public interest would not suffer, the public's confidence in vaccination would be increased. Social Democrats, however, do not support that part of the law that says that modern medicines intended for some of the most painful ones, including many children with genetic diseases, should not affect their genes. They may affect their symptoms by prolonging their life span or even enabling them to recover. We can't support this part of the law. But we are taking the initiative today and here to proposers: come to the National Assembly with a version of the law that will talk about transparency, come with a version of the law, where the emphasis will be on your article 10. Then it will be seen who really believes that pharmaceutical companies should not hide data, or who thinks otherwise. You have my and our support for such a law that will increase transparency and put pharmaceutical companies in a position where all other companies are. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning! Before the amendment of the Medicinal Products Act to the legislative procedure, we had the same situation and had the same actors in the amendment to the Infectious Diseases Act. It has been proposed to abolish compulsory vaccination. In response to their proposal at the time, in the SMC, together with the coalition partners, we introduced a law in the legislative process, under which measures were taken to increase the fragmentation of the Slovenian population. Since children's transplantation from almost eradicated most infectious diseases has begun to decline, we have faced the fact that, as a society, we are not yet mature enough to stop compulsory vaccination. Public health is an important value and the right and achievement of science by which it gambles by collecting the signature of 2.5 proms of the entire population. Since the attempt to legalize voluntary vaccination against the most communicable diseases has failed, the law that we are considering today is a new cycle of similar, or legitimate, races. But since the devil is always hiding in detail, deepening the proposed solutions will reveal their weakness and indiscretion. Some are contrary to European legislation and could lead to a topic away from modern scientific knowledge without the possibility of rapid action in the event of an epidemic. If enforced, they would pose a risk to public health and further increase the vulnerability of the population to infectious diseases. There's no way we can agree to that. In the area of transparency of the entire range of vaccines, an additional movement should be made, but this should be in favour of, in particular, the wider population and to help people who doubt for a reason, not the professions. It appears that a person has a more difficult faith and less confidence in things he does not understand, so we are convinced that strengthening the trust of people in vaccines would also reflect an increase in the share of vaccines. This would take a major step forward in controlling and eradicating infectious diseases. A large majority in our country trust a common European, very strict regulation that ensures that vaccines are effective and safe. If there are ever any side effects at the time of mass use of vaccines, it is a signal for further development, research and progress that will ensure that the profession provides us with even greater vaccine safety, verified on a sample of the entire European population. Hiding your head in the sand against the threat of mass infections leading to the medieval mortality of children and adults must not be the principle of dealing with infectious diseases in the 21st century. In the light of the pandemic against which we have been fighting for a year, the content of the proposed changes seems completely inadequate. In the Modern Centre Party, like the entire progressive world in interception, we see the basic condition of collective security against infectious diseases and one of the most important civilisational achievements of medicine, so we do not support this bill and we do not believe that it is suitable for further treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Health is one of the greatest values, but unfortunately we are not aware of this much until health problems occur or we are witnessing various epidemics and pandemics. Currently, all of us are choking and changing our lives SARS-COV-2 or conversation crown. With vaccination, self-sacrificing medical personnel and responsible behavior, the light is already showing at the end of the tunnel, and I believe we can do this together and we can overcome this. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 5,000 voters to increase vaccine safety, increase trust in vaccines and reduce the potential for side effects of vaccination. As vaccines are classified as medicinal products, they are subject to the provisions of the Medicinal Products Act. For each vaccine available in Slovenia or the European Union, the efficacy and efficacy of vaccines must be demonstrated and verified during the marketing authorisation process with the relevant studies. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices publicly publishes the summary of product characteristics and instructions for use, which also show the composition of vaccines. Both documents are made publicly available in the public drug database, where data are also available for all medicinal products authorised in the Republic of Slovenia or have been issued by the European Commission. In recent years, as a society, we have faced entirely new challenges with regard to the vaccination of children that we have not known many years ago. Some parents reject vaccination because of different beliefs, lifestyles, and diets. There are doubts about the system for ensuring and monitoring the safety and efficacy of vaccines. The reason for reduced cross-section in Slovenia, which is already slightly below the 95 % limit, which allows us collective immunity, is also in spreading news and records that are not based on professional facts. The World Health Organization has already listed such behaviour on the list of the greatest threats to global health. In New Slovenia, we advocate that the mandatory vaccination programme should be regulated by modern doctrine, so that parents are properly informed and informed of all aspects of vaccination for the child, possible side effects, and that the State which prescribes compulsory vaccination also closely manages the records of possible side effects, strictly controls the producers and suppliers of vaccines and assumes responsibility for cases which in real life mean quick, professional and material assistance and support for families and reparations. I would like to point out that no vaccine included in the compulsory vaccination programme in the Republic of Slovenia has been granted marketing authorisation following a reduced or simplified procedure, as these procedures are only used to obtain marketing authorisations for generic and similar biological medicinal products. And vaccines are classified among them. The standards on the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines are the same across the EU and some proposed changes are therefore not in line with European Union law. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposal of the law. We believe in science, and I am particularly pleased to hear that within one year a breast cancer vaccine should be developed. This suggests that, in the future, science will be able to prevent the worst and worst diseases, and I trust that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, in accordance with the meeting's timetable 3. 3. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the regulation of the market for work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The bill was tabled by 5,000 voters and voters. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Mario Fekconi.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u24	Good-bye, everybody! Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The bill, which is now on the table, is subject to the adaptation of the Slovenian regulation of European Union law. A worker employed abroad is directly subject to foreign labour law, but since a single concept of coordination of social security systems, which allows the transfer of social benefits rights, has to be taken into account at the level of European legislation that is hierarchical over Slovenia, which also allows the transfer of this right. It is therefore necessary to eliminate the social distinction solely on the basis of the place of residence and the unemployed worker to allow access to rights belonging to him in the light of the same amount of unemployment insurance payments as that system is paid by the resident of the competent foreign country whose legislation has last been applicable to the person. Finally, Slovenia joined the lawsuit against the Republic of Austria, which reduces the child's allowances to the Slovenian resident only on the basis of the child's permanent residence. In the current regulation of the system of unemployment compensation, Slovenia, by its legislation, not only indexes the corresponding duty, but has also been damaged by the budget in the millions of dollars over the years by this regulation. For we give up compulsory benefits from higher unemployment benefits, which, following the sixth and seventh points of Article 65 of the European Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems, allows and directs European legislation. In doing so, it is necessary to reiterate the fact that a Slovenian citizen employed abroad pays up to 20 times more for the same gross salary as a person employed in Slovenia. In the case of gross salary of EUR 2 000, this percentage in Austria is 3% and 6%, given the gross salary or gross gross salary duty in Germany, 1.2% and in Slovenia only 0.2%. The amount of unemployment compensation shall be refunded for a period of three or five months by the State of last employment. These amounts are largely higher than the maximum amount of gross compensation set out in the Slovenian legislation. The Slovenian budget, due to the adoption of this law, will not be further burdened. On the contrary, more resources will thus be made available to the Slovenian budget on contributions from the increase of the refund to be refunded from abroad. However, as regards the compatibility of the law with Article 14 of the Constitution and equality before the law, it should be pointed out, first of all, that non-compliance with the Constitution is determined by the Constitutional Court when the law is adopted, and by no means can we put ourselves in the role of the Constitutional Court in this Chamber. Here again, I stress that equality before the law can be judged when it comes to the same things. The facts presented in previous cases show more than one real and reasonable reason why the beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit from the foreign income quotas can be treated differently if we are already talking about Article 14 of the Constitution. In this case, it is not even a comparable fact. The 3% interest paid on gross wages is not equal to the 0.2% share of the same salary. How the State will obtain information on how much compensation would belong to the unemployed is a matter of the competent services of the Ministry. However, in view of the fact that the refund application is sent after payment, we may propose, under the existing Slovenian legislation, that the competent authorities issue a provisional decision with the amount set out in Article 62, paragraph 3, of the Labour Market Regulation Act and that the difference is subsequently paid if the refund application is higher. After all these facts and, of course, the fairness and balance of the rights and duties of the beneficiary, MEPs and Members are sufficient to confirm the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, has considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by a group of 5 thousand electors and voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption on a regular basis. The committee was attended by representatives of the candidates, i.e. the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, a representative of the State Council and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was provided with material published on the website of the National Assembly. In a complementary explanation, Mr Mario Fekonja presented, on behalf of the proposalers, the representative of the Trade Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, first of all, the objective of the proposal for a novel, as we have heard today in the opening position. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their opinion and, inter alia, pointed out that, with regard to the general principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court held that this principle obliges the legislator to treat substantially the same situations. The proposed solution derogates from the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of social security systems, since for a given group of unemployed persons, i.e. those who were cross-border migrant workers prior to the occurrence of unemployment, a different arrangement would apply for a certain period of time with regard to the maximum amount of payment of monetary compensation, since in the country of last employment, according to paid unemployment contributions, they would still be subject to higher monetary compensation. The Committee has also received an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law in principle. The representative of the Government said that the competent ministry supports the basic purpose of the initiative of more than 5,000 voters and voters. The proposed legislative text, which was not substantively appropriate, was subsequently corrected by proposals for amendments to the Committee. In the debate followed by the introductory positions, some discussers pointed out that the proposal for a law was in principle supported or not opposed, but they wondered whether it was not a derogation from the regulation on the coordination of social security systems, which provided, inter alia, that the legislation of one Member State was applicable to the unemployed and that the legislation of the Member State of residence applied to the unemployed. The proposed solution thus departs from the provisions of the Regulation, which is also recalled by the Legal and Legislative Service. Others felt that the problem, which had been exposed many years ago, needed to be addressed. They supported the efforts of the migrant union and considered that exceptions were allowed. The representative of the applicants stressed that, in view of the compensation granted for unemployment in the event of their lifting for unemployed workers who carried out their work in another Member State of the European Union, our country will not be harmed. On the other hand, the higher compensation paid to the State, which will in any event be reimbursed, also provides for a higher payment of social security contributions and will also improve the social situation of the unemployed person who will receive higher compensation. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the Regulation lays down rules which are the same for all Member States. It noted paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Regulation and said that the Republic of Austria had mechanisms to initiate proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia if it found that the Republic of Slovenia differed between its nationals. Finally, the Committee adopted its amendments and voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. A further proposal has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Yuri Leprechaun.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear proposalant, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia with signatures of voters and voters. The legal content addressed relates to the amount of the unemployment benefit fixed at its ceiling, which individuals may receive from unemployment insurance and which is still 892.5 euros gross at present after the reduction with Zujf in 2012. The majority of Members followed the proposal on the previous committee, with the original text that had completely released migrants from the ceiling, correcting the above amount of the refund to double the amount mentioned above. In the Desus Group we weighed the content with several aspects. First of all, we have received a clear response from the guardian of the Constitution not so long ago. The Constitutional Court has, in relation to the Income Act, declared a different, more favourable treatment for day-to-day migrant workers incompatible with the Constitution, since, in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution, equal treatment and similar situations and situations cannot be treated differently. Therefore, in the case of the proposal for this law, the dilemma has opened in our Group whether the content of the different legal position of cross-border labour migrants can reasonably and justifiably be justified in view of the situation of all other Slovenian citizens and citizens who lose their jobs with domestic employers on Slovenian soil and will continue to be bound, irrespective of the level of payment for such insurance, to a gross amount of EUR 893. In 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act reduced the ceiling from EUR 1 000 to EUR 892.5. In addition, the reduction in the Zujf remuneration for the unemployed further reduced the remuneration by an additional 10 % after 12 months. Although we have been completely out of the economic crisis in recent years, these really needed and justified measures by Zujf have not been eliminated. In 2019, the upper minimum amount available to the beneficiary increased by €180. In the Desus Group, on the occasion of the adoption of the then amendment, we pointed out that it is also necessary to raise the threshold, since relations are obviously falling too far. Even in relation to monetary social assistance, such a low absolute compensation limit is not appropriate, since this right is, last but not least, a payment of wage-dependent contributions, while cash social assistance is a pure social transfer. Since the duration of receipt of the pension is included in the pension period, which also provides a basis for calculating the pension, and since the remuneration period is significantly lower in relation to the individual’s income, the exceptionally low amounts of the pension may be substantially reflected in the pension itself. In our second reading today, we have the opportunity to replace the economic situation of the recipients in the short and long term with a slight improvement or change. This is the amendments of the Left Group, which raises the minimum and maximum of compensation for all citizens and citizens, irrespective of the location of their previous employment. Members of the Member's Skuina Desus, in view of the final support that we have before us today in this context, will decide in the course of the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u30	Nice greetings to all present! The Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia has called on all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who care about the labour rights of cross-border workers to contact the administrative unit and sign a bill before us today. They were able to collect 5,000,658 signatures of support. The fact that we cannot go beyond is that unemployment is one of the most stressful situations in life, in addition to death, divorce, so it is necessary to ensure social security for the time being. It is also necessary to take into account their previous contribution to the possible emergence of unemployment. No one can reject, modify or reduce the scope of social rights under any worker simply because he does not live in the country where he pays. The European Regulation provides that the compensation for unemployment for the first three months in the case of five months of employment, which is longer than 12 months, shall be refunded by the State for the last job of a cross-border worker, while the current Slovenian legislation limits the amount of that refund. It is worrying that, with the loss of a cross-border worker's employment, our country voluntarily cancels or renounces the 2,000-euro circus abroad, which is not a negligible amount. In all these years, our state budget has so far been damaged by at least €10 million. It is also not fair that a cross-border worker who pays up to 20 times more for unemployment insurance than a Slovenian worker, and that for the same gross salary, is ultimately not entitled to a higher amount of compensation. Our current legislation is absurd, because, as we can see, the country is taking money unjustifiably from us and, on the other hand, it is easy to deny it, usually to the detriment of the worker. For this reason, we must eliminate the nonsense that restricts Slovenia's withdrawal of funds from abroad. The problem of unemployment benefits began last year with the covida-19 epidemic, when a large number of cross-border workers working in neighbouring Austria remained so overnight without employment. As far as the text or content is concerned, the proposalers wrote it very rashly. A number of comments were also made in the opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The final text was complemented by the coalition amendments. The positive effects will undoubtedly be felt in the field of the economy, as the double increase in the level of unemployment benefits will result in more consumption and purchases. Finally, in the Slovenian National Party, we would like to point out that the failure to comply with the bill would result in a rapid increase in the migration of individuals, as we see in young doctors and Slovenian families abroad. The latter would contribute to a negative demographic picture, which over time would also show up in the economic and financial sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u32	The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act was signed by migrant workers travelling to work in other members of the European Union with 5 000 658 signatures. The legislation currently in force is equivalent to that of migrant workers with employees in the Republic of Slovenia, although the payment of unemployment compensation contributions has not been equivalent, contrary to the 13th preambular point of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. 883/2004 EP and Council of 29 4. 2004 which discusses the coordination of social security systems which deals with the guaranteed equal treatment of persons in different national laws moving on the EU labour market, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation. The proposal follows the European legal order and is also supported by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, as migrant workers point out in their argument for a proposal to amend the law, they are paying higher social security and unemployment insurance contributions to another EU Member State or elsewhere. Our citizens decided to work in neighbouring countries for various reasons, one reason is that they failed to find suitable employment in Slovenia, and the other that they wanted a better or better quality of life for their family. Around 25,000 of them are employed only in Austria, where, of course, there are also terminations of employment contracts. Since we all hope that they will like to return to the homeland of Slovenia, because it is mostly the bearers of young families, we support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Their consumption in Slovenia also has a positive impact on the state budget. When they lose their jobs in another member of the European Union, they become unemployed persons and are registered unemployed and active job seekers in the country of residence, i.e. Slovenia. Here they receive unemployment compensation under the same criteria and conditions as workers who were employed in Slovenia, i.e. with a limit. The unemployment allowance in the Republic of Slovenia is limited to 892,50 euros. The amendments are based on the fact that the Member State of the European Union where they were employed would fully refund the remuneration received by the Slovenian State for unemployment benefits. Any such refund shall, however, be effected by delay. The draft law follows the objective of a more favourable and fairer social security system for migrant workers by establishing an exemption from the maximum amount of unemployment compensation for migrant workers who would benefit from higher compensation in the country of last employment in accordance with the unemployment contributions paid under this Title. The exemption from the maximum amount of unemployment compensation in force in the Republic of Slovenia would be taken into account for the first three months of payment of the refund for which the country of last employment of a migrant worker who is a member of the European Union reimburses the Republic of Slovenia for the full amount of compensation and the fees paid by the Republic of Slovenia to its unemployed national, so-called former migrant worker. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have then supplemented the proposal with some amendments so that, for the first five months of receiving monetary compensation, this restriction can also be removed if the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of insurance periods in another EU Member State, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation in the last 24 months prior to the creation of unemployment and has the right to payment for unemployment for six months or more in accordance with the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thus, for a period of up to five months, the former migrant worker shall be paid a cash refund in the amount of EUR 1 000 in another EU Member State, EEA or Swiss Confederation, up to a maximum of EUR 785. As we support working people in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we also have a social sense for those who lose their jobs, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! The proposed amendment to the Law, group of 5,000 voters, proposes an amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which would provide for an exception to the statutory maximum amount of monetary compensation in the case of unemployment for migrant workers. The amendment of the law would allow them to receive a financial compensation for unemployment in the amount to which they would be entitled in the country of their last employment, with the exception of the maximum unemployment benefit taking into account only the first three months of receiving unemployment compensation. In accordance with the European Regulation, this is the period for which the Republic of Slovenia shall be reimbursed in full the amount of unemployment compensation paid to the migrant worker by the State of his last employment. The adoption of the proposed amendment would thus provide a more favourable and fairer social security system for migrant workers, as the current Slovenian legislation on the level of unemployment compensation violates their rights related to the level of unemployment compensation they have acquired by working abroad. In the debate on the Committee, the applicant highlighted in particular that the problem of unemployment compensation had proved to be critical during the epidemic, when more migrant workers, particularly those employed in Austria, were left unemployed. Migrant workers received unemployment compensation in accordance with the current Labour Market Regulation Act, which sets the maximum possible amount of 892,50 euros, although they also paid 20 times more than employees in the Republic of Slovenia from their personal unemployment insurance income. Respected and respected, the limit of the maximum amount of unemployment compensation was initially imposed by Zujf and, in time, the ceiling of the compensation has become permanent. The proposed amendment to the law by the proposer has raised a number of issues that we believe should be carefully considered. In particular, it would be necessary to re-examine whether the proposed solutions are changes to the law in accordance with the European legal order. It should also be borne in mind that even among the 800,000 employees in the Republic of Slovenia, many receive higher salaries and pay higher unemployment insurance contributions over the long term, but only up to 892.50 euros in gross unemployment benefits are eligible for the loss of employment. For these reasons, the Social Democrats will not oppose these changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The new labour market regulation law introduced by the Trade Union of Migrant Workers, signed by more than 5,000 citizens and citizens, reminds us not only of the problem related to the amount of compensation received by the unemployed person in Slovenia, but also to the structure of the labour market in Slovenia, and of dealing with unemployment in particular in places where the best or even the only job opportunity is represented by neighbouring countries. We believe that we would not be able to deal with this today if all those who are forced to seek employment in neighbouring countries could get a job at home. The loss of employment during the covida-19 epidemic affected many countries, including Slovenia and our neighbouring countries, which offer employment to many Slovenian citizens. At the meeting of the home working body, the applicant pointed out that the issue of the level of unemployment compensation was particularly the case during the covida-19 epidemic, when more cross-border workers, particularly those who were employed in Austria, were unemployed. They received a cash compensation for unemployment in the amount of EUR 892.50, which is in line with the applicable Labour Market Regulation Act, which provides for the maximum possible amount of EUR 892.50 gross, which, in his opinion, does not follow the rules of the European Union on the transfer of rights from the country of last employment. In addition, a decision was taken at the meeting of the parent committee to grant the full insurance period referred to in Article 59, paragraph 1, of the Labour Market Regulation, to migrant workers who, prior to the occurrence of unemployment in the EU Member State, the EEA or the Swiss Confederation. At its meeting, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposed solution derogated from the provisions of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, since a specific group of unemployed persons who had been cross-border migrant workers prior to the occurrence of unemployment would be subject to a different regime with regard to the maximum amount of compensation paid to them because they would be entitled to a higher financial compensation in the country of last employment in view of the unemployment contributions paid. Let us not forget that since 2013, we also have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. At that time, the Constitutional Court found that cross-border labour migrants, in accordance with the Income Act, are the established principle of taxation of world income to the resident of the Republic of Slovenia and taking into account the method of limited deduction for the elimination of double taxation, are in substantially the same situations as other taxpayers for the payment of income. The situation of cross-border labour migrants in the case at hand was entirely different and did not constitute a reasonable reason for the nature of the matter to justify the different regulation of their situation. Therefore, the Constitutional Court had at that time found that the specific tax relief was incompatible with the Constitution. In addition to what we have already said at the meeting of the home working body, another Member State of the European Union has the possibility to introduce certain procedures against Slovenia if it is found that the Republic of Slovenia, when dealing with the subject, makes a difference between its nationals. We are, of course, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, to improve the material and social situation of individuals, which this proposal of the law certainly ensures, but there is also a very high likelihood that such an intervention will create a different treatment of substantially equal situations. Nevertheless, and on the basis of the arguments presented to the proposal, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u38	This law proposes that some 40,000 Slovenian workers working in neighbouring countries receive the highest compensation they would potentially receive when unemployment occurs. The real injustice is not that these workers are not entitled to a higher remuneration than everyone else, but that for 800,000 workers, the lowest compensation is set. When they lose their jobs, the state does not guarantee their survival, they get animals. They depend on social assistance, which many do not benefit from because of stigma or lack of knowledge of the system. The lowest wage for a worker to survive with is currently just over €400. Such a low remuneration does not provide any security for the worker, although he pays contributions on the basis of his employment. The number 400 and a few euros is from 2016 and did not prevent a serious risk of slipping into poverty at the time. This risk is very tangible; it is an empirical fact; among other things, it has been demonstrated by the Institute of Economic Research study 2017. The absolute poverty threshold was EUR 613 per lifetime in 2016 and the amount of the lowest compensation in force was even lower than the short-term cost of living, which is said to be lower than EUR 442. Well, try, ladies and gentlemen, to spend a month with so little money. The first point to be settled in the area of these refunds is, therefore, an increase in the minimum wage to at least the minimum cost of living. That is exactly what we are proposing in Levica today with our amendment. It is also true that the highest remuneration a worker can receive is lower than the minimum wage. With a priority increase in the minimum compensation, we propose to raise the highest compensation in Levica, saying that the whole compensation scale moves up. Of course, in a solidarity and in an equal manner. Not as we read in the initial proposal of the law that 40,000 workers be excluded from the current order and given a privileged position in the legislation, but that all 800,000 employees receive an increase in their highest remuneration at the level of the minimum wage. The current interventions, which leave out 760,000 workers, are extremely problematic in themselves, and they are based on a completely wrong understanding of how solidarity systems work in us. There is no insurance principle in this game, there is mutual assistance and support. Just like universal health. In the public system, we all receive equal treatment regardless of how much of our salaries we contribute to the health treasury. The unemployment benefits are exactly the same. Workers with different high wages contribute differently, but all, with the exception of the privileges for us Members, are subject to the same maximum and lowest compensation limit. It would be unfair and unfair for the highest compensation to be raised only for those who, due to higher wages, also pay higher contributions, but precisely this is the basis of today's proposal. As the Legislative and Legal Service has also wanted to explain in its consideration, today's proposal establishes a different treatment of unemployed persons, which is the only reason for this is the only location where they performed their work before losing their job. It was also pointed out on the Committee that Austria could initiate procedures as a result of this law against Slovenia if it found that Slovenia created differences between the unemployed in Slovenia with a view to higher refunds from the Austrian budget. But how did SDS Members respond to these warnings? By labeling the employees of the Legal and Legislative Service, watch out for leftist fanatics. And how did the weeping chairman of the Labor Committee react to such humiliation in the National Assembly? She didn't react. This proposal, which was actually created under the auspices of the SDS, means that the SDS only understands electoral mathematics, not the needs of the people to be cared for. In Levica today, it is proposed that all 800,000 workers, who are intended to live with 400 euros, be compensated at least at the minimum cost of living, or EUR 613. We will not support the proposal by which the SDS and the NSIs want to legitimize this unfair exception from limiting the maximum remuneration only for some workers or better-spoken voters.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Tadej Šuštar has the floor, which will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats under our auspices we have accepted the party RESET, which has fought for the rights of migrant workers. In Novi Slovenija, the ReSET Party saw the potential and similarity of the program, saw the credibility and the fulfillment of our promises. Since then, we have become even more aware of and exposed to problems relating to migrant workers, even though we have already tried to solve their problems. Amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Law provide for an exception to the maximum amount of unemployment compensation, which is limited to 892.5 euros. However, for migrant workers, following the amendments adopted by the Labour Committee, the amount of the refund is limited to a maximum of EUR 1 000 785 for the first three months of receiving the refund or for five months if the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of employment in the Member State of which the legislation last applied to it in the past 24 months. After three or five months, the limit of 892.5 euros will also apply to migrant workers. The draft law will only impose an additional burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the short term, as, in accordance with the European Regulation, the amount of compensation must be reimbursed by the Member States in which the migrant workers were employed. The system of reimbursement applies to the first three or five months of unemployment of migrant workers. The goal of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats is to stop the removal of workers and families abroad due to better conditions. These include unemployment benefits, which reflect more adequately the level of social security contributions paid. In Slovenia we have a well-educated cadre, which could easily find its career opportunity abroad. As we are aware that every evicted worker is a loss to Slovenia, we want to improve the conditions for migrant workers to stay in Slovenia. The cross-border impacts of the European economy must be reflected in balancing workers' rights. In addition, the state will not give charity and will not allow free living. It will make life in social security possible, and whoever is social, is willing to give up something, as it can count on that he may need and will get help from himself. Those who rely on the solidarity of the state have an obligation to contribute. Solidarity, however, prohibits the exploitation of social security. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are aware that by improving the conditions of migrant workers we can make it possible to better and, in view of the neighbouring Austria, where migrant workers from Slovenia mostly travel to work, more just conditions for receiving unemployment compensation. For these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will be the last to present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed law provides for an exemption from the maximum amount of unemployment compensation for migrant workers who may be entitled to a higher compensation in the country of last employment or who would be entitled to a higher compensation than provided for in Slovenian legislation. This exception would be taken into account for the first three months of receiving the refund, i.e. for a period for which the State of the last employment of the worker in accordance with the Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems of Slovenia shall reimburse the total amount of the benefits provided by Slovenia. That period may be extended for a further period of five months if the migrant worker has completed at least 12 months of employment in the Member State in the past 24 months. In the SAB Group, we recognize a problem that has been up to date for many years, and this requires a solution. We also attach to the proposaler that the problem of the level of unemployment compensation is particularly highlighted in the situation we are in now, i.e. the covida-19 epidemic. Many cross-border workers, particularly those in Austria, have lost their jobs and thus receive a lower compensation than they would have received if they were residents of this country. Nevertheless, we must draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, in the case of the proposed solution, there could be a derogation from the regulation referred to by the proposer. This provides, inter alia, that the legislation of one Member State itself applies and that the law of the Member State in which workers are resident applies to unemployed persons. In other words. The solution ahead of us can constitute a discrepancy with the acquis of the European Union and also lead to inequality towards workers working in Slovenia. We also drew attention to the latter during the discussion on the working body, but the Government representative did not pay any attention to this and expressed his support for the bill. Despite very reasonable concerns, we estimate that the proposed solution will bring relief to migrant workers over a number of years, and we view it as an appropriate and fairer solution. We will support the new law in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Boštjan Koražija, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u44	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. As far as this amendment is concerned, we propose to raise the minimum and maximum amount of monetary compensation referred to in Article 62 of the Labour Market Regulation Act, since this would be a more socially fair way for all workers to be offered equal increases in their unemployment allowance. This has already been said very well in Micah’s position, in fact, we want these compensations for the unemployed to be as high or equal for all. So it is basically the first to be higher than these lower items, but also to increase the highest. We estimate in Levica that the current height does not provide adequate protection for workers when unemployment occurs. Micah also mentioned this earlier — in fact, with 412 euros you cannot survive, unfortunately. And that's a replacement right now. This is also a fact, and I will refer to the Institute of Economic Research study in 2017, this issue which I have presented to you now, or this claim is attached to it. This study says that the compensation is not high enough to ensure that workers are protected from falling into poverty and social exclusion when they lose their jobs. The minimum cost of living in 2017 is EUR 613 and the amount of minimum compensation in force is even lower than the short-term minimum cost of living, i.e. less than EUR 442. As it is said, in Levi, we insist that solidarity is basically the one that should be the first, and in this case solidarity should be for 800,000 employees, and also for those 40,000 migrant workers who migrate to Austria, to have equal opportunities or to have equal compensation, even so that these benefits are so high that they provide the basic necessities of life or the needs that you just have to pay and live with what it is. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My colleague Mojca Žnidarič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I must admit that the cash compensation for unemployment is very low, and if it were in the opposition, of course I would immediately support this amendment proposed by the Left. However, it is necessary to be aware of the financial consequences involved. Although it is very close to me, I would really like to appeal here to the Ministry to think later or as soon as possible about raising both the lowest and the highest limits, because the monetary compensation was more than nine years ago than it is now. Zyf reduced them in 2012 and did not increase for nine years. We did, I think, in 2016, according to the previous coalition, raise the lower limit from EUR 350 gross to EUR 530 gross. All contributions, which are about as high as on wages, are then deducted from the remuneration, so from these EUR 530 gross around EUR 400 net, we are close to the level of monetary social assistance. But the ceiling, which I said before 2012 was EUR 1000 50, has fallen to €892 with Zujf, which means that the cash compensation for unemployed persons is not even €700 net, even for our citizens who have salaries in Slovenia for €2,000 or more and pay the same contributions as everyone else. Although I must agree here, this contribution to unemployment is very low in Slovenia, 0.2%, as we have also heard from the representative of the billers, pay 20 times higher in Austria. This is the only real argument for me personally that this law can be confirmed. While we will not oppose the law in the parliamentary group, as I have said, but we will not support it, it is therefore pointless for me to support any amendment of the Left. As it is said, it is substantively close to me, but here the ministry only has to approach this, increase this monetary compensation, but I am sure that it must increase, at the same time, that it will be sustainable at all, this contribution to unemployment, which is very low in Slovenia and very small percentages of monetary compensation will even be covered by this. It is not nearly as high as the amount of unemployment benefits covered under this heading. As it is said, I appeal to the Ministry that after nine years, it is time for these limits to rise for all. Today one small group will probably be saved, as it is said, I will not object, because it does not bother me if now the neighbor gets more compensation than I do if I work in Slovenia, which is why I will not do worse. However, in the SMC Group, we believe that there is a different treatment of approximately the same situations in order to distinguish between citizens. The location of the job cannot be an argument. As I said before, the only real argument for me is that they really pay a much higher contribution to unemployment abroad. Given how low it is in Slovenia, it is certainly essential that Slovenia rises and that unemployment benefits for all Slovenian citizens also rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Fekconja has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I would like to reply to the amendments that it is extremely difficult in this matter to compare Slovenian workers with migrant workers or those two categories will never be able to equalise. Migrant workers are in this story, as far as compensation is concerned, a chapter for themselves. Of course, I agree that in Slovenia these benefits are essentially too low. I would just like to say that there are some possibilities that would bring the situation of equalising Slovenian workers and migrant workers closer to equality, but it is important to know that when you compare Slovenian workers with cross-border workers, you will have a revolution in Slovenia. Why? Only in this segment that we are dealing with can you compare Slovenian workers with workers employed only in Austria, by raising the contribution to unemployment insurance by 2000%. When you have done so, load up the regression, the Christmas office with contributions and taxes, tax the compensation for the use of your own resources at home or for the use of your own resources at the workplace, charge the Slovenian car carrier, at the time of payment of the proceeds, to prove the daily allowance by means of written and employer-confirmed evidence which will include the time of departure from the company, time and location of the crossing of each state border, time and location of the crossing of each state border on return to the company, time of arrival to the company, otherwise tax them full, taxing the jubilee fees, taxing the field allowances, compensation for the separate life and not least of the costs related to work, include them in the tax treatment. You're hoping that? This is how a cross-border worker is treated. I don't think that's the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, I think we need to frame this debate on the question of what is the substitute for unemployment in the first place. It's not like a commercial insurance where you have different amounts of premiums that you pay according to what your salary is, and then when you're out of a job, or insurance when something bad happens to you in life, depending on the premium you've paid, you're pumping up what you've been insured for. The insurance system in unemployment payments has no place. Covering unemployment is a solidarity measure. We all contribute according to our ability, according to how high wages we have, and then all under the same conditions when we lose our jobs, we benefit from unemployment benefits at about the same levels, or we have a lower limit, which determines how much unemployment benefits we can receive. This is currently the case for 800,000 workers in this country, the only exception, as far as I know, we are Members, who are already privileged animals in this country and therefore have additional compensation. But none of this is an argument that insurance holes would be drilled into the solidarity system. We see already what happens in the health sector to care and services as soon as the insurance system comes into place instead of solidarity – it differs between people according to their material situation. Therefore, we cannot support this initiative for privileged treatment of migrant workers. However, this initiative points to something else, and this is the core of the problem that we are trying to solve today with our amendment. The unemployment benefits received by those who lose their jobs are absolutely too low. They're too low. Anyone who works pays for the case of unemployment participates in this solidarity system, but when he loses his job, too many workers cannot survive with the compensation he receives. It can't be because it's too low because it's set at a good 400 euros. And who can survive with 400 euros in this country? If I look after my generation, which is largely a chaplain, does not have any property in real estate, it is said to live in rental apartments, it does not cover rent in Ljubljana, for example. In general, the amount of these compensations needs to be raised for all 800,000 workers. In Levica we are doing this in a way that raises the lower limit to the level of living costs as charged in 2017, says EUR 613. This is a relatively administrative calculation, as far as this amount is concerned, depending on the methodology used in the calculation, but this EUR 613 is currently the only such tangible data and number that we have and which also regulates certain social transfers in this country. That is why we believe that at least what should be done to raise the unemployment compensation on these EUR 613. It is said that everyone who loses his job is not immediately faced with total life and that, in addition to the psychological consequences of losing his job, he has to face running all over the place, but at least up to EUR 613 is covered. To ensure that it has at least this minimum with which it can translate for the next few months. At the same time, we also regulate the maximum possible amount of unemployment compensation and place it at the minimum wage level. This is too low at this point, so that the whole scale, or the total range, of our compensations, has to be moved upwards. I think that workers who stand up to this society – in particular, we can see how they have it and still keep it in the epidemic, exactly those profiles on minimum wages, from the trades ahead – deserve this coverage for when they lose their jobs. After all, they do not lose their job just for a false reason or anything, but because of some factors that are completely out of their control. Why, then, would they be penalised with unemployment benefits that do not enable them to survive if they did not lose their own fault, but because the state handles employment policies as hand-holdings, because the basis of the economy is capitalistic, which means periodic crises, closure of factories, other jobs and so on? None of this is the fault of one individual, at least one who works on a production line that works for cash or public services or anywhere. That is why I cannot agree to the argument I have heard in the debate that we have to think about the financial consequences. We talk about people's lives, how someone can survive or how someone can't survive. Why do we always ask ourselves about the financial consequences of helping people who already have nothing? As a result of the increase in unemployment benefits from €400 and €s few to €613, no one will become rich, only what less unemployed persons will slip into poverty immediately after losing their jobs. And it's also extremely problematic to listen to, czech, her, financial consequences up, down in the context that we've been following for the past year. The next number is a few months old, but I think it's convenient enough – it went through the PKP and otherwise a billion 700 million. It was overpayments in the acquisition of masks, an innumerable number of assets, bought fans that were then not used for the covida-19 epidemic. The last such apologetic affair: bitcoin boys and their quick tests that do not work or at least do not work in the way they are used in this country. You didn't think about the financial implications here? But when it comes to helping people, workers, and here it is: its financial consequences cannot be done. From this conceptual introduction that I have made – that unemployment compensation is a solidarity system and not an insurance system – we can conclude that what today's proponent says must be done simply cannot be sustained, it is said that 40,000 migrant workers in Austria are exempted from this solidarity mechanism and privileged on the basis of insurance logic. It doesn't even last at any other level. The Slovenian workers who work in Austria, when they become unemployed, are also unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia. Here they pay the bills, here they go to the store, here they have children in kindergartens, their children go to Slovenian schools, they drive on Slovenian roads, they go to the Slovenian health system and so on. What I want to say is that we cannot view this category of workers as something separate from other groups of workers. There is no minimum basis for this distinction. All 800 000 workers and the amount of their compensation should be considered in the set, and I reiterate once again that the unemployment benefits are too low as soon as they are dealt with in the set. They're too low. Not only for the 40,000 who work in Austria, but because they work in Austria, not at all, it's not an argument at all. They're too low for everyone because they can't survive with them, period. That's the only argument that has any weight. In comparison, I will tell you a few more examples on the subject of migrant work, only placed a little lower by the migrant vertical. Let's say the position of foreign workers with us. What does the Republic of Slovenia have to do with migrant workers coming from foreign countries, usually from countries of the former Yugoslavia or down from the south, to work here? They're building us a country. They're building us company. This, however, is worth special and separate treatments. Take a look at what cases she has presented in public or in general in public, such as the Labour Advisory Office, which assists such migrant workers, including in the areas of unemployment insurance. People work here, pay social security contributions, then lose their jobs, and watch out, they don't get unemployment benefits and they still don't get social assistance. They are not entitled to social assistance because they do not have a registered permanent residence here, but at the same time they are without unemployment compensation, even though they have contributed to unemployment in their work. They don't get anything, they don't get a good 400, they don't get 613 euros, they don't get as much as Austrian workers get. Nothing. And they're filling up the Slovenian cash register. We have, for example, very specifically, cases of workers from Serbia, which employers, the so-called masters, are short-circuited from social security, without these workers knowing what is happening to them, because there is a lot of them around, and then something happens to them, they get sick and they don't have sick leave, they lose their hospital. They are here, they work here, they contribute, they build us a society and a country, in the Republic of Slovenia they are not covered by the absence of a hospital as a unconditional right. But it runs through their masters, who play the system, so that they can enrich themselves with what social misery they leave behind, and they don't care. And apparently the state doesn't care, because this kind of play is allowed all the time. The basis of this migrant work is the agreements signed by Slovenia with some of the former brotherly republics, such as Serbia and Macedonia, with Northern Macedonia until 2018, Bosnia 2011, and I stress once again that they worked here, paid in Slovenian social registers, should have covered unemployment, and that is not the case. Moreover, the tightening of legislation for any migration, the work of foreigners and so on gives the masters an extremely strong lever of discipline for these workers because they are briefly deported as soon as they become a little louder. In the last two decades we have had and still exist in this country of construction, which are de facto concentration camps. Of course, these people do not have a permanent residence, even if they had a permanent residence, it is very unlikely that they would be an election base of SDS, and then the policies tabulated do not interest them. Rather than solving the injustices of migrant workers in our country or saving the social misery of 800,000 Slovenian workers, they have become the patron for the privileged position of 40,000 workers working in Austria, just because they work in Austria. I'll finish with the final call. I hope to get some response or some argument, why in the light of all these facts, the amendment we made in Levica would not be acceptable. The minimum compensation for unemployment must be such that at least around people are helped to survive; we have put it at EUR 613 because it is a calculated minimum cost of living; we have placed the ceiling of this compensation at the minimum wage level. We think that — I will not say honestly — because in the vast majority of cases we would have earned more — this is the appropriate minimum that the National Assembly could afford to help people who have lost their lashes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Korazii has re-entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to tie myself to Micah's debate. It's a deeper matter. This amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act has, in fact, raised many questions about the decent payment of workers in Slovenia as well as labour rights. In fact, Mr Fekconja gave us a very interesting presentation earlier or so quickly you made a presentation or also told us what else you get along with Austria, the additions, are real Christmases and these things that belong to you or come as payment to a worker in Austria. I'll just say, because I know a lot of workers who work in Austria, some of them consciously decide to go to Austria to work, but unfortunately they also have to work in Austria from this eastern end. I know the situation, and I know how things work. But I'd go back to working rights or decent pay. The time of the Coronavirus, if it set up a mirror or showed us something, is that the country is sorry — however, I do not mean to throw stones at anyone — it fell asleep or consciously in certain things decided against workers, even when it comes to workers’ rights and basically when it comes to the safety of workers, it is said that they have a decent payment to be able to provide but not to live in poverty. We know cases, unfortunately there are a lot of these in Slovenia, we know the phenomenon of Slovenian poor workers and workers. If anything, I would expect the Government to take a more concrete approach at this time to solving these problems, which have suddenly emerged in a more profound way or have highlighted the most vulnerable groups of our society. I fully agree that if we are already working or if we are already amending this law or adding additions to this law, then there must be a solidarity principle, that is to say the same, or that all should be treated equally. On the one hand, I understand Mr. Feckon, who told us the story. But perhaps you have told us more about how people might have a better idea of the differences in wages themselves or in these supplements and taxes and other matters. If you give him another chance then people may be more likely to understand where we are in Slovenia and where we should really want to – for better conditions, better pay, better working conditions, of course, better or fairer pay for the work done. This has remained in Slovenia for quite a while. If you will, Madam Vice-President, then give the floor to the gentleman to explain to us the difference in payment, the difference between our salary or the minimum wage and the salary they receive in Austria or across the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Proposer may always take the floor during the discussion whenever he wishes. Mr Fekconj has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The first thing I have to say is that it's not just Austria that's foreign. That is precisely why I will now not go into the distribution or more precise definition of wages. What is essential in saying this, however, is that earlier in the additional explanation of the law I spoke about the same gross bases, it is said, in both cases, I came from 2,000 euros in gross wages. In Austria, the unemployment insurance ratio is 6%, in Slovenia 0.2%. That's the first thing. Second thing, solidarity. We are solidarity in Austria or in the country where we are employed. For example, a worker from Bosnia, employed in Slovenia, is solidarity in this segment in Slovenia and not in Bosnia. European legislation in this area, however, ensures that we get our share from this solidarity system from the country where we were employed in the same amount as that of an Austrian citizen or our associate from the same system. However, I would touch on another matter that we had forgotten a little while ago, it was three, four years ago, when mention was made of the use of health care, infrastructure, roads and all that. In the use of Slovenian health care we are employed abroad always self-paid. This does not mean that we always pay the service from our own wallet, but it is covered for us by the country in which we are insured, or by a health insurance company from the country in which we are insured. About the roads. On its vehicle, I, or a partner who is employed in Austria, have the Slovenian vineyard which had to be paid, and in the registration of the vehicle, paid all the compulsory charges paid by the Slovenian national. However, if we are talking about schools, kindergartens and other matters, we can stop as soon as possible in matters that are dealt with in Slovenia by the competent services, as soon as the person says that he is employed in Austria, but not by the competent services. These are various subsidies for transport, nutrition and other matters. So yes, we are not the same in any country as migrant workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish has recommitted to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The problem of equality that we have in unemployment benefits is not about who works on what side of the labour line, but about equality being a condition of social freedom. If the lowest compensation for 800,000 workers is set at 400 and several euros, then we cannot speak either of equality or of justice or of anything. Nor can people who receive such low compensation talk about anything because they have to deal with one thing alone — how they will survive. They must do so, even though they did not lose their jobs because of their own guilt. They did not shut down the factory; they did not bankrupt this or that company, including their craftsmanship, espionage or any other business in which they are employed, probably did not close up just because they did not try hard enough themselves, but because the market order of the economy is such that it grinds everything in front of it, grinds society, grinds individuals, grinds the environment. What I want to stress with this is that people who lose their jobs don't stay by their own fault, but they have been dumped on the road by the system in which we live and in which some are inadvertently rich are millionaires. Where do you think this difference is coming from? The difference comes from work. The work creates all the value, but some are such that this value is assumed. The value created by someone’s work, whether with his hands or his brain, only partially returns in the form of a salary or a bear to that worker. A certain part also comes back through the so-called indirect bear, which we call the social state mechanisms. Reimbursement for unemployment is one of such mechanisms. I cannot accept that, with such low amounts that do not allow people to survive, we have to discuss the financial implications that the increase in unemployment benefits is expected to bring to the country. Not now that Janez Janša's reign has left and right all possible business is flooded with public finances, “no questions asked”. With public finances, it even floods criminal associations, once again “no questions asked”. However, in the case of unemployment benefits, we need to discuss the financial implications of the country. What, though, are the consequences of people who are broken by poverty? I think that for the category of migrant workers who are Slovenian workers working across borders, we must also think in a way of social justice. Which means that if someone feels overwhelmed by receiving a low unemployment allowance, this problem is solved by raising all the benefits without anyone being deprived of it, without entering into the law unequally into the treatment of some unemployed and others who are unemployed. I see no reason why we should take a particular approach to some insurance logic, in other words the solidarity system of unemployment benefits only for a particular group of workers, rather than merely strengthening the solidarity base with the logic on which it is based, and raising the benefits for all workers. I'm missing another vote from the coalition in this debate, and I'm missing a voice from the government. I would like to hear how, in the context of the covida-19 epidemic, when virtually all fiscal restrictions have been lifted, when the European Union has also wide-rangingly untied the purse for cheap loans and so on, they respond and how they defend their votes, which are very likely to vote against our amendment to raise unemployment compensation. I'd like to hear a line, let's say an official government line of reasoning. If there are no government representatives or are in a corner there, at least by coalition Members, I would like to hear why we should not support our amendment, or why we should not raise unemployment benefits. Especially in the epidemic, when the entire service sector is facing a total collapse, if it is not already in this total collapse, when companies are closing down or living on public infusions, why are we even playing with the idea that people would not be adequately protected if they lost their jobs. But if anything, it's understandable to everyone, like this. [[shows with gesture]] With our finger, we show that workers are not to blame for losing their jobs, but this is exactly the situation of the epidemic. I would like to challenge the views of those parliamentary groups and the end of the Government, which will contribute today very likely to vote against this amendment. I'd like to hear their explanation and their logic. To conclude this intervention, let me point out something else where I have also lost my response in connection with unemployment benefits and PKP packages. While there was some extra unemployment allowance for those workers who lost their jobs in the epidemic, it was set at EUR 513. The number seemed to be completely arbitrary, lower than or below EUR 530, and no minister could tell me why, no one could justify how fair that would be. We have proposed an amendment in Levika, I think not once, that we have given it twice, and we have not signed it ourselves, I will not put my hand in the fire now, but that it has been supported by another opposition group and a bob against the wall. Which seems to me to be just one more reason or even more underlining the necessity that if we already have intervention legislation on the table, we have regular legislation and we change it, why we should not solve it there and provide decent compensation for all workers who lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Koražija is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u58	Your Honor, thank you again for your word. I must admit, I really don't understand this in this national council. When we talk about unemployment or unemployment benefits, when we talk about workers’ rights when we talk about decent workers’ payments, it is a permanent block on the right hand side or on the coalition side. I don't know, because if you're not ready to discuss, you're not going to debate, but in fact you have a lot of voters, or a lot of voters, who are regular workers or who work for minimum incomes and incomes, and I would expect you to stand up for these most vulnerable groups, especially those workers who are on minimum wage and whose stories we listen to on the ground every day. I hope you can hear them too. The others we hear, you obviously don't want to hear them, anyway. I would like more discussions on this subject when we are talking about workers and working alone. In general. As the lady explained earlier in her position about the party Reset, if I understand correctly, I will refer to the position of the Group of Members. I would expect her to represent their affairs or tell them anything else in defense, given that she has taken a stand on the side of a group of migrant workers. At least for the Group of Members, I expect it to give a concrete opinion. Because it's obvious that you've been in a certain contact, or some connection, that you've also exchanged certain opinions or experiences that you might have mentioned in your position. Now I'm going to turn to this side. [[shows with gesture]] . Earlier, Moses had said very well, and I would like this amendment of ours to support itself. Because I know you would if there weren't some other stuff that did. Mainly, think again, the amendment is not poorly designed. Let's support him, because we're going to solve a few things with one amendment, which is a lot of crises, which is a lot of personal, life-saving pressures on this account. And, Mojca, you know a lot of them from your previous job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Honourable President of the Migrant Workers' Union, Mr Mario Fekonja, colleague and colleague! I didn't sign up because I was challenged by the Left, but I planned this debate and listened to it until now. Of course, I agree with the applicants that it is very difficult to survive, as they say, with 412 euros. If so, then here, if we were to think seriously and honestly, I suppose, but this is your freedom, we should respect the threshold of the risk of poverty. Data for 2019 are known and EUR 8 000 440 is at annual level and EUR 703 is at monthly level. Let me tell you right now why I won't support the amendment. I would expect this amendment to sign the entire left block of the opposition, and I would expect a slightly more respectful attitude of the applicants towards migrant workers. You're saying we don't meet them and so on. Since 2004, when I was first elected, I have been with migrant workers. My first meeting, a kind of fiery baptism, was at the Apache Sports Hall, then called the Civil Initiative Apache, where we were with the director of Dursa Simic at the time, there were about 700 people. 700. On a weekly basis, when I am in my office, I face the problem of these workers, these are our people, our citizens, and thank God they are still here, our residents. Many have already moved, and there will be more if politics does not have a more respectful attitude to this issue. It is true, however, that it is not easy to regulate matters by law so as not to discriminate against other groups of people. I believe that these 5,000 or more signatories are mainly from North-East Slovenia, probably also from Koroška. I come from the Pomur region, which was restored in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, not with the marshall plan, but with the money our fathers and grandfathers earned in Austria, Germany, Switzerland and so on. So they were migrant workers at the time of a former, socialist state. Of course, in many ways, but especially in some living or business environment or pay system, if you want, it is difficult to compare with the northern neighbour of Austria, which is now the most exposed here. The fact is, in many cases, we want to get close to these conditions. I guess jobs are attractive, so our people are going there, and they're going there because they don't get a job at home. I know in very detail the situation in the border municipalities of Austria, where the family receives the construction plot much cheaper than in Slovenia. Many students, including elementary school students, not to mention students, study in Austria, learn in Austria in the apprenticeship system and already have a job provided there. You have buses all day when schools are open. True, most migrant workers come from Pomurje, of course also from Koroška, so that I will not comment on other matters and show more because this time does not allow me. I am probably allowed to say that I know this matter, but it does not mean that someone from Ljubljana, from the Central Slovenian region cannot discuss this issue, God forbid. In the Pomurska region, ladies and gentlemen, 5% of the population of Slovenia lived in 2019, 13 years ago 6%, which means that more than 20 000 people moved from Pomurje in 13 years. That's what I'm talking about. This should be seen by this Slovenian policy, but unfortunately there was mainly no political obedience or rather a political majority in order to resolve matters here in this institution. He probably came from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of any letter, but you all know, it has been published publicly that the Minister Janez Cigler King, who gave a positive opinion for this law on behalf of the Government in quarantine – the Government to give an opinion, is understood, but he was the first called Minister of Labour to prepare this opinion, which the Government has adopted and is positive – that he is a positive Secretary of State, that he is in quarantine Secretary of State, and that is why there are no representatives of the Government here. I'm not the government's attorney, but I'm sure there's some excuse. This region, Pomurje, also emerged after the lowest natural increase in 2019 – 4,7 per thousand inhabitants, and after the smallest share of foreign citizens among the population, 2.1 per cent. In 2019 alone, there was also a negative overall increase in this region, i.e. the sum of natural and migratory growth –0.5 per thousand inhabitants. The population composition in this region was least favourable as the proportion of young people between 0 and 14 years of age was the lowest, 13.2 %. The average age of the population here at regional level was the highest. And so on and so forth. Not to mention GDP per capita and so on. If politics does not show within the framework of constitutional options, within the framework of the European acquis where we have, yes, we all know, a single market, i.e. a single labour market – but, of course, national legislation will remain for those who set up wage policies, the competitiveness of the business environment and so on. Yes, we have a Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to which applicants also refer, and so on. 30 times higher is the contribution to unemployment in Austria than in us. We've heard that before, and I'm not going to repeat any other numbers. The colleague Tadeja has already expressed support for this law and also to the amendment of the 2nd Article, which is more or less editorial in nature, is not substantive. I am pleased – and thus I conclude – that most of the groups here today have expressed some affection for this law. We accept it in good faith that we may somehow correct these people's previous injustices, even though the law will not apply back, and that we actually show, look at this national assembly, here are Members and Members, who are also representatives of migrant workers. Of course, there are still far more difficult issues in the financial sense that we are not solving today, and sooner or later they will come to our tables. I therefore conclude with the support of only the amendment to Article 2, which we have signed with the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I announce the uniform support of the New Slovenia Group to this Act and I am pleased that we have taken a small step together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Kordiš entered the floor first, after which Mr Korazi received the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Workers who lose their jobs do so beyond their guilt. All unemployed people in Slovenia, whether formerly working abroad as migrant workers or working here, benefit the Slovenian social state, pay Slovenian taxes and are subject to Slovenian standards. This is something that needs to be taken into account, and the rule that needs to be followed. The problem is not to solve it by deviating from this regulation, but by being Slovenian standards for all too low. Migrant workers working in Austria or in another country are also not treated unjustly because they would pay higher contributions or because they would work there under Austrian law. Unfair treatment is given for the same reasons as all other unemployed persons in the country, namely that unemployment benefits are too low. It is therefore necessary to frame this problem and then to resolve it from this framework. To achieve this goal, we have made an amendment in Levica, which provides unemployment compensation for all, for all workers regardless of where they work, raises to at least €613 and raises the maximum limit to the minimum wage. I would like more engagement from government representatives by coalition representatives to explain why they would vote against this amendment, because people in an epidemic without their own guilt are losing their jobs, they are sentenced to low unemployment benefits, and I do not get an answer. Well, the representative of New Slovenia argued that not all the opposition groups of this amendment had signed, and this was supposed to be some argument why the unemployed in this country should continue to live with 400 and some euros. I'm sorry, I don't buy this political argument. Here are the people, they worked, they paid their social contributions, they lose their chess without their own guilt, bam, poverty, misery, they can't survive. Another argument that I would like to conclude and point out is the following: perhaps it is wider. People are educated in the Republic of Slovenia and then forced to look for work across the border, forced to search abroad and are valued and well paid. They are doing the same job as they could in the Republic of Slovenia, but employers here are not willing to pay them well enough. As soon as they cross the border, their salary standards and standard of work will rise immediately. If we are to seek the root of the problem, it is a debate that we must lead. Why do Slovenian employers pay lower wages for the same job than they pay in Austria? However, it can be a completely identical production line, but wages in Slovenia will be lower. The argument about higher contributions also needs to be taken into account in this context. Coalition advocates say yes, because in Austria these workers pay higher contributions to unemployment, migrant workers, therefore they must also benefit from higher unemployment compensation outside the standards applicable to everyone else when they are unemployed and when they stay in Slovenia. This is said by one and the same political representatives, who would prefer to cut all possible contributions and any possible taxes on salaries. Only if we're willing to make contributions from a stronger social state is I'm willing to talk about it. In particular, if these contributions are progressive, it is said that I, as a Member, pay them much more at a much higher rate than someone who works for a minimum wage. That's some logic that I'm sure I'll sign on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazzi, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u64	Thank you. I'd like to answer Mr. Horvath because he obviously didn't understand me. I said earlier that in your position you were just talking about that you were obviously in contact with the group RESET, which represented migrant workers at the time, as far as I know. So I didn't say you weren't, like you said before. So, I know you were. I know this situation very well in the northeastern part of Slovenia, because I know a lot of people who work across borders, so we will not just talk about Austria. Most of them are forced to work across the border, and some of them make conscious decisions. I'll go back to our amendment again. Our amendment saves just so that working migrants can have this maximum amount, which they would be entitled to, and as we have already said, we turn around again and make up a variety of excuses, both of them. If we are to help the weak ones in our society, the unemployed are certainly, one of them, then such amendments need to be supported and not always sought excuses, why we should not support them or why we are against them or why we are abstaining or something. So I'm answering that one again. As far as I know, you're representatives of migrant workers, if I'm well aware, you've already had quite a meeting with the previous government on these issues, but things haven't gotten as good as they should. If I understand correctly or if I understand correctly? Isn't it? Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else would like a word to discuss this amendment. Mr. Speaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Since we still have some time, of course, I would like to take advantage of a few words about the Constitutional Court decision of 2013 and Article 14 of the Constitution on equality before the law. We know that by 2013, cross-border workers had a special tax relief which was lifted by the Constitutional Court in that decision. The Constitutional Court has taken such a decision not because it would weigh special relief between the arguments of the advocates and opponents, but because there were no advocates who would state the real and reasonable reasons for the different situation of cross-border workers. At that time, the National Assembly did not respond to the request of the Constitutional Court and, in the case at that time, the Government did not show reasonable or real reasons for introducing in essence positive discrimination. Simply put, it did not state the reasons why it had accepted this special tax relief. As far as unemployment benefits are concerned, dealing with it, paying it, paying it, paying it — it is very similar with pensions. The worker pays the pension scheme abroad under their legislation and this pension is also paid under the legislation of that country and not under the legislation of the Slovenian State. This case is quite comparable to unemployment benefits. If I go back to that decision of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we believe that the demolition of the then special tax relief was a political construct. The decision of the Constitutional Court itself was not based on any facts. We also know that at that time, the Constitutional Court should not have even ruled on that matter, should have rejected it. This was also stated in a separate opinion of the Constitutional Court at the time. The only way to deal with the matter is if the proposer of the constitutional assessment is given a more favourable position. Well, in that case, it didn't happen. The question of the proposer, the proposer – because the person was anonymous – remained the same as before this constitutional judgment. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Enforcement and Security. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u68	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! The law on enforcement and insurance is a law primarily intended for the creditor in order to enforce the debtor’s obligation. In preparing the novel before you, however, we have come from the fact that it cannot do so at any cost and in any way and that it is also necessary to protect the most vulnerable debtors, children, consumers and others in execution. The execution of the debtor's home. In doing so, we implement the decision of the Constitutional Court and regulate the position of debtor in the event of the residence or residence of its home, so that enforcement may be postponed for a maximum of six months if the continuation of enforcement constitutes greater damage to the debtor than would have been suffered by the creditor by deferral. Consumer protection. When enforcement can start on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record, we provide consumers with the possibility of bringing an action against the invalidity of a legal proceeding and the possibility of postponement of enforcement pending a court decision. This brings about a well-known decision by the European Court of Justice in the Franc case. Exclusion of animals from the execution and the rubble. The bill exempts domestic animals from enforcement, such as dogs, cats, room birds, small rodents and the like, which are intended for society, protection and assistance to human beings, as they must be treated differently than objects which may be subject to rubble and forced sale. An extremely important change relates to the abduction of children. Seizure is a severe and painful intervention into a child’s life that should never have happened. However, if necessary, it must be performed humanely and with the highest degree of sensitivity. If there are circumstances in which execution at that time would not be of the greatest benefit to the child, it is possible to suspend it in a new manner. The Novela makes many other commitments to the courts and enforcers to act humanely and with the greatest degree of sensitivity. Predictability in enforcement procedures is also important. The Novela also regulates the broader possibility of intervention by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for the unification and development of case law in the field of enforcement, through amendments to the audit regime. It also brings new developments in the field of enforcement where new disciplinary infringements are introduced in order to prevent illicit practices in this area. The latter will allow the Ministry of Justice to verify, within the framework of its supervisory tasks, compliance with the basic rules governing the independence and independence of the enforcement authorities from the instructions of the creditors and that the executing authorities do not perform tasks which are incompatible with their profession. However, the new proposed serious disciplinary infringements will allow appropriate sanctions to be imposed if such practices are identified. If business conditions are met, we propose that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I therefore give the floor to Mr Blaž Pavlin, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Justice, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance at its 23rd session 10. 2. 2021. Representative of the proposed Minister of Justice, Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendment provides for adequate protection of the debtor in respect of the postponement of enforcement in cases where special reasons are provided. Thus, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, the arrangements for deferral of enforcement in the event of the discharge and extradition of the debt-bearing residential property are amended. On the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, however, it is possible to effectively protect consumer rights. The enforcement procedure of the child-absorbing decision provides for the possibility of delaying and discontinuing the procedure where there are circumstances in which immediate enforcement would not be in accordance with the protection of the child's interests. The proposed amendments follow the recommendations of the special multidisciplinary working group, which in autumn 2020 prepared a proposal for a protocol for the recommended conduct in the event of the execution of a decision on the removal of a child by direct extradition. In addition to this, the proposed amendment amends the audit regime and allows the debtor to have access to the Supreme Court. The implementation of the animal shall be recognised as a special situation, with the exception of the implementation of the pet animals. The operation of executioners in exceptional circumstances shall also be regulated following the example of the Law on Courts. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Katarina Kralj, said that the comments from their written legal opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled and an appropriate explanation was given for the comments made to Article 5. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which unanimously supported the bill. In so doing, the Commission pointed out that the enforcement procedure is intended primarily for a creditor who normally has a long-term procedure which has already demonstrated the correctness of his views, but of course it is also right to take account of the social situation on the part of the debtor. The Commission has highlighted the specificity of enforcement in the case of family relationships where there is a need for great sensitivity in the conduct of all stakeholders and the greatest concern must be for the protection of the child. The Commission also supported the exemption of domestic animals from enforcement procedures. The representative of the Supreme Court, Tina Brecelj, said that the Supreme Court supported the proposed amendments, in particular the determination of the possibility of audit to the debtor, the harmonisation of enforcement in family relations in accordance with the recommendations of the special working group and the arrangements for the operation of the executors in emergency situations. Members supported the proposed law in the debate. In doing so, they welcomed in particular the changes in the field of child enforcement, which put the child’s benefits at the forefront and follow the recommendations of the specific working group and the protocol of conduct in these procedures. They also welcomed changes in the enforcement regime to the debt-indebted property and the exemption of domestic animals from enforcement, as this has a negative impact on both the animal and its owner. Member Zeljko Cigler made a proposal to enable the debtor to obtain legal aid free of charge during the enforcement procedure. It's a Magnificent message. Meira Hot, however, invited the proposer to exempt the pet animal from the flag right in accordance with the German example. She also drew attention to the false reference in Article 75 and suggested that, with the adoption of her amendment, she should follow the proposals of the Chamber of Executives of Slovenia. Since that content is not the subject of the amendment in question, such an amendment is not admissible and has not been voted on. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SDS, SMC and NSI parliamentary groups and all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u72	Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a law that favors the debtors in particular. The very content of the law in the enforcement procedure protects debtors much more than creditors. In this regard, it should also be recalled that there is a constitutional decision concerning private property, which specifically highlights its social function. Such an aspect is too often overlooked, and especially the small people suffer, as ownership is the source of capital. The law also emphasizes the protection of human dignity. Given the principle of the rule of law and the social state, it is right to adopt laws that are largely social. The change of law has led to a situation on the ground which, in our view, was unsustainable and a separate decision of the Constitutional Court. The law is good and brings appropriate corrections to our legal order, especially with regard to the development of law, but we have some concerns about certain proposed amendments. For the issue, we assess Article 1 which interferes with the existing Article 10 of the Act. These are fundamental provisions of the law, which we believe should not change, as this violates legal certainty. At the moment when it reaches into the basic provisions of the law, the whole structure of the law itself or the legal field is being disrupted. In the light of the proposed amendment, we believe that it is not valid, as the constitutional court is currently in the process of assessing the constitutionality of this Article. As long as the legal issues decided by the Constitutional Court are open, the law on these legal issues should not be amended or supplemented. Despite the Government's view that there was no unconstitutionality, it is now proposing a change that is going in the direction of abolishing the established unconstitutionality of the law. We are also reserved for the proposed Article 6 because we believe that pets should not be exempted from enforcement or the proposed definition is overly loose. The proposed solution is a deviation from the regime in neighbouring countries. Many times people possess very exotic animal species, which are quite precious, and we do not see the problem of why a creditor would not be able to cut into such an object in execution. In particular, the law on enforcement and insurance should seek a fair balance between the interests of the creditor and the debtor. This time, due to the social situation, the balance sheet moved to the debtor's side. In the light of the programme of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, it is appropriate to offer stronger legal protection to debtors in enforcement. In particular, we stress the way in which the right to postpone enforcement is exercised in matters of protection and education and personal contacts, which will be newly possible at the time of enforcement. It is exclusively about protecting the benefit of a child, which has been neglected in the past, as we know from the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister with the team, distinguished fellow Members! At the end of December 2020, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, the so-called novel ZIZ-M, and the members of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice, at the meeting on 10 February 2021, we unanimously supported the proposed amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. If the legal substance of the novel were to be inserted into one sentence, it could be said that the proposed changes in the enforcement procedure protect the weakest and most vulnerable individuals and, on the other hand, provide sufficient leverage for effective enforcement. The important changes brought by the ZIZ-M concern consumer protection, the so-called social executions on real estates, which are also home debtors, and the debt is relatively low and therefore its payment by the debtor is realistic or manageable. The novel also excludes domestic animals from enforcement and regulates another very sensitive moment of enforcement, namely the area of family execution. In the area of consumer protection, several important decisions have been made in recent years by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The key point of the Court of Justice of the European Union is that in cases where enforcement can already start on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record and not on the basis of a judicial decision, Member States should provide consumers with more effective means to prevent the continued use of unauthorised terms in contracts concluded with consumers by sellers or tenderers. This means that enforcement must not continue in cases where the consumer enforces the invalidity of the notary record. However, any continuation of enforcement may be possible only after a court decision has been taken on this issue. One solution is to implement last year's constitutional decision, which requires that, in the case of enforcement of residential properties that are in debt to the home, a fair balance between the interests of the creditor and the debtor be found in concrete cases. In this way, the length of delay in the seizure of property is extended by law, allowing consumers in distress to keep their head or home. The novelty also complements more precisely the rules governing enforcement with the direct removal of the child. In the context of professional coordination, both the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, as well as the multidisciplinary expert group, which has also developed a recommended protocol for dealing with such situations, participated in the preparation of the solutions. The result in practice will be as rapid and as stressful a process as possible for the child, which, of course, aims at the best possible benefit of the child. Taking the child after this novel will be carried out professionally out with all due care. Once the family court has decided who will be entrusted with the upbringing and protection of children, this decision must be implemented as soon as possible. In particular, immediate enforcement is necessary in cases of emergency measures designed to protect a child at risk. Pets will be re-exempted from enforcement. This amendment is linked to a recent amendment to the Real Law and the definition of animals. The animal is no longer treated by the SPZ as things, but as sentient living beings. Of course, it is the special emotional value of the holder to an animal that is rooted in his emotional attachment to an animal. So the dogs, the cats, the birds, the little rodents, if you want, will no longer be subject to enforcement and forced sale. Complementing or determining disciplinary infringements concerning the work of the perpetrators also exacerbates their disciplinary responsibility, of course with a view to preventing and sanctioning certain unacceptable practices. All of this in order to ensure that the perpetrator carries out enforcement acts lawfully, independently and effectively in accordance with their umbrella law. On the proposal of the debtor, it will be possible to review, and also to intervene in the field of enforcement by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This will also ensure uniform case law in this area. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, the novel ZIZ-M. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word and for your exchange. In the LMŠ Group, we always welcome the legal changes that bring better social regulation, and so is the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. We supported the proposal on the Committee on Justice, among other things, because we advocate the view that constitutional decisions must be respected. This amendment implements one of the constitutional decisions relating to the enforcement of residential property. According to the minister, there will be no more absurd situations in which some 10 euros in debt may have been seized of its property. We hope that the relevant provisions of the law will also be understood and applied in practice in this spirit. We are also pleased that we have reached agreement on changes in the field of child enforcement. Here I can say from the experience of my previous profession that in practice there have been very ungrateful and harmful actions by official authorities or executives, which have to a large extent affected very young children. Here, too, we hope that the changes we are introducing today will in practice really contribute to the best possible way in which child abduction procedures follow the child's benefits. And last but not least, the fact that we as a society have advanced to the point that we have excluded domestic animals from implementation shows that we have already begun to respect a new arrangement where animals are no longer things. The owners of pets find it hard to imagine that the subject of the rubble and forced sale would be our family member, so we are also happy about this change. Given that the proposed amendment has not received any comments from the section, it is also supported by the Supreme Court, and given that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have been taken into account, we will support the proposal by the LMŠ Group today. However, we want the Government to gain so much wisdom and courage to listen to the expertise and warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service in the future in the drafting of marriage proposals or novels, because, as we can see today, it is possible, however, to produce good marriage texts that receive greater support in the National Assembly, rather than dividing them into coalitions and opposition. Sometimes it is not enough that we or you are responsible, professional and constructive only at some formal level, sometimes the formal fulfilment of some criteria is not enough to say that we have really done everything in our power, but sometimes it is necessary to move from form to reality or to prove it through actual proposals. This is being done today with this novel, and I would like for the Ministry of Justice to do so elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law removes certain injustices which were in practice detected in enforcement procedures and were necessary to correct them in order to balance the situation of the parties in the proceedings and to weigh the situation of the particularly vulnerable groups. Thus, the provisions relating to the protection of the debtor in the enforcement of his property, which are his home, are a major step forward towards justice. For it is unjust and inhuman to throw someone out of his house, when this grave illness and his disability could worsen. The deployment shall not be carried out at any cost. Thus, the decision of the Constitutional Court is also implemented by extending the duration of the postponement of enforcement from three to six months and the suspension may be granted several times, not only once. On the basis of decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the situation of consumers is also better protected when it comes to enforcement on the basis of a notary record. Access to audit for debtors is also being extended. The provisions relating to children are particularly important. Last year, we witnessed the so - called execution of contacts or even the abduction of children through social networks. It lasted several hours and, at least in my opinion, it was not in any way in favour of children and should at least, in a given situation, weigh all the circumstances, not just the letters on paper and not just the law. The fact is that contacts are being made for extremely traumatic events that have major consequences on and on children and their development and that the harmful consequences arising from such procedures are very difficult or even impossible to deal with later. In these procedures, the only criterion should be the child's benefit. We believe that, despite this regulation, the competent authorities could also show a little bit more understanding and a little more sensitivity when they do family matters. It is therefore essential that child-related procedures, which can only be adapted, that the premises in which hearings are conducted are friendly and close to children and that individuals who are the most competent and professionally qualified to help and listen to children, understand and stand by in extremely difficult times are involved. We are, of course, extremely pleased that the Ministry has also followed a change in the Real Law Code, that animals are sensitive to living beings, and that the proposal for this novel specifically exempts domestic animals from enforcement. However, we would like our country to go a step further here, as Germany and Switzerland say, and ban not only enforcement but also animal flag rights. Pets have a special value for a custodian who cannot be identified solely by economic categories and should therefore not be traded with them. Everyone should be aware of that when they buy animals. On the Committee on Justice, the Social Democrats also proposed an amendment following the Executive Chamber's initiative to increase the distribution of the work of executives. We currently have 31 executives in Slovenia, with five executives doing over 50% of all executions, which is, of course, unacceptable. Unfortunately, the amendment was not allowed because this article was not currently subject to regulation, so we call on the Ministry to begin this year with changes in the local competence of the executives. We also drew attention to Article 75's editorial error on the Committee, so that we expect this to be improved as well. Certainly, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! In the SMC Group, we support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, not just because it is a model proposal for a law that has been unanimously supported both in the context of the hearing on the State Council and in the national working body of the National Assembly. A broader public consultation was held on the novel. The draft law includes recommendations from a specific multidisciplinary group in the field of child enforcement. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice followed the legislator's expectations regarding the definition of animals as sensitive beings also in the prohibition of their execution as pets. The key to unanimous support, however, are the fundamental objectives and purposes that follow them. This is that it brings greater protection to more vulnerable social groups than children, as well as to individuals who are in social distress and are threatened with losing their homes, animals as well as sensitive beings, and could even list them. If we focus on just a few key solutions. In the light of the decision of the EU Court of Justice concerning the Directive on Unauthorised Conditions in Consumer Contracts, the amendment of the law to a new regulation and improves the legal position of consumers in the enforcement procedure under which enforcement is conducted on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record. The solution is designed to ensure that the court protects consumers who enforce the invalidity of notary records in order to postpone enforcement until the question of the validity of the enforcement address is resolved. In view of our repeated views, we have supported the proposed solution, despite the weakening of the significance of the notary record and the position of the creditor, because the Ministry has also, on our proposal with the pharmacy weighing between the creditor's right and the right of the debtor and has formed a good solution after our assessment, when it has decided, for the first time, that the court must proceed with such an action as a matter of priority without delay, and for the second time, that the court should postpone enforcement unless it is clear from the debtor's claims and the executive address that the debtor has no prospect of success. The Novela also regulates the problem of the activities of individuals who are in social distress. The courts will have to consider the specific circumstances of the debtor and postpone the appointment for a period of time. In addition, it builds on it by informing the competent institutions which can help resolve such a situation of social distress and consequences for the debtor and by assisting in the payment of the creditor. These are solutions followed by the case of a solution in the field of implementation of the European Court of Human Rights judgment in the case of Vaskrsić – the sale of a house due to a very low amount of debt. Or as the former Minister of Justice of the SMC said: “The matter of Vaskrsić must not be repeated in any form in the country that declares itself social.” Implementation rules shall also be laid down with the direct removal of the child. In the SMC Group, we are pleased that the Ministry of Justice has decided to take a multi-disciplinary approach in the design of these solutions, as both the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Labour and the section of expertise at the Supreme Court participated in professional coordination. Since execution constitutes a serious intervention in the child's life, it is our assessment that it must be carried out with great preparations, precisely defined roles, with the greatest care and the greatest benefit of the child. In view of recent changes to the Real Law and the Animal Protection Act and the definition of animals as sensitive beings, domestic animals are excluded from enforcement. In the SMC Group, we were already committed to restricting the possibility of domestic animals. For the purpose of carrying out agricultural activities, only labour and breeding animals which are necessary for agricultural activities shall be excluded from the implementation. The proposed addition also excludes pets or animals, such as dogs, cats, birds and others, which are intended for society or for assistance and protection. In view of the good solutions proposed, we will support the amendment of the law, as already mentioned, in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The mandate of the government of Janez Janša is rare when we can support the improvement of legislation in Levica. Not because we would not want to support good solutions, but because good solutions are small or even harmful, non-democratic and anti-working, but the proposed amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance go in the right direction, namely, greater protection for the most vulnerable debtors who are in so much financial distress that they are threatened with losing their roof over their heads or on the road. Locations are one of the worst representations of social image and situation in Slovenia, especially if you are growing. First of all, we must try to address not only the consequences of this social picture, i.e. the activities, but mainly the causes that lead to this. While the law is fairly short and could contain additional solutions that could protect socially disadvantaged debtors by providing adequate free legal assistance to all those in the enforcement process, as mentioned earlier when the work of the Committee was reported. We thus miss further changes in this law. Obviously, however, the Government has decided to settle only the most pressing matters, which are imposed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed part of the law. The rate of poverty in Slovenia is high, the social pressures are severe, the lack of non-profit housing is high, the number of deposits is still high, the question of what will be the question after the period of covida ends when many people are unemployed, without benefits and so on. The deployment is on a scale of stressful things in life in another place, right after the death of the partner, and this case is not actually dealt with by the government. The covid-19 epidemic has brought additional social distress, increased unemployment, and thus increased debt to creditors. A number of enforcement procedures are expected both to legal and to natural persons, but the main measures to prevent enforcement procedures must be laid down in other legislation and government measures. The law on enforcement and insurance can only ensure that the debtor does not land in worse social poverty, so enforcement at his only home must be an extreme, last option that is possible only when it does not endanger the existence of the debtor and his family. Strictly so, we could say that the extended family is becoming an even worse social problem and that the chances after this event are poor, especially if the family does not have relatives and practically does not have access to the roof above the head. However, it is also a positive change to exempt domestic animals from enforcement, but this even more indicates that the home of the debtor, the owner of these animals, should also be exempted from enforcement. In this way, the debtor, along with his pet, will have to leave his home. And what's ironic is that at least the debtor and the pet won't be separated after work. But it also points to this matter that every, even such humanized activity, is still only a bare and cruel loss of the roof above its head. We support and hope that it will be used as little as possible, despite all the changes in the law in Levika. This will be a sign that the social picture in the country has improved or improved. But we are confident that such a situation in the country can only be expected under a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u84	Thanks again for saying that. Reliable and effective justice is essential for ensuring security, smooth progress in business processes, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the legitimate functioning of public administration, the rapid regulation of legal relations between individuals and the economy, legal security and predictability, and the general functioning of our joint co-operation. Respect for the company's legal rules is the basis for its safety and effectiveness, and it is also essential to ensure that the decisions of the courts are properly enforced. If we do not have a functioning system, which translates rules and rights from regulations and contracts at the final stage into real life, the entire legal system is also incomplete. Taking into account the specific nature of the notary record as the enforcement address, it is possible to defer enforcement on a proposal from the debtor or on an official basis in cases where the debtor submits an action for invalidity of a legal transaction from a directly enforceable notary record. It is crucial for us to make it clear that the court must proceed with such an action as a matter of priority without delay. We also consider it important that the novelty provides that the debtor's court will refer the action only in cases where it is not obvious that the debtor has no prospect of success with the action. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance introduces changes in the areas affecting the most vulnerable groups of individuals. The execution process is primarily intended for the creditor to achieve the enforcement of its obligation; however, it is not possible to achieve this objective at all costs and in any way. A proposal for a law shall provide adequate protection for the debtor in cases where special reasons are provided for the postponement of enforcement. The duration of the stay of the property held by the debtor shall be extended and the current arrangements under which the stay may be granted only once shall be abolished. In the case of family relations enforcement, there is a need for great sensitivity in the conduct of all stakeholders and the greatest concern must be for the protection of the child. Child abductions must be the most extreme measure and only in cases where all other funds have been cancelled. With amendments and additions, we can contribute at the legal level to the professional, responsible and responsible abduction of the child and to the proper functioning of all those involved, so that it is carefully planned, because it means that each child is subjected to a severe and painful attack into the child's life and must be carried out with the greatest degree of sensitivity. The proposed amendments follow the recommendations of the special multidisciplinary working group, which, on the basis of the new substantive regulation of family relations in the Family Code and its procedural implementation in the new Unfair Procedure Act, drafted a proposal for a protocol of recommended conduct in case of the execution of a decision on the abduction of a child by direct extradition. Domestic animals shall be exempt from enforcement by amending the law. Some items that are of special value to the debtor, such as rows, medals, war monuments and other medals and recognitions, wedding rings, personal letters, manuscripts and other personal debtors, and pictures or photographs of family members, are also exempt from enforcement. In view of the amendment to the Law on Courts concerning the operation of courts in emergency situations, the provisions of this Act governing the performance of enforcement officers in these circumstances shall also be adapted to this effect in order to protect the debtor. Since the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance provides greater protection for the most vulnerable citizens and citizens of Slovenia and at the same time pursues the objective of efficiency of the procedure, we will support New Slovenia's proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has been pointed out several times before, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance brings innovations in several areas. In doing so, at least so by the proposer, the proposed solutions will also help to better protect the most vulnerable groups of individuals in such procedures. In the SAB Group, we particularly welcome the amendments made by the proposal in the area of child abduction or in the field of child protection and education. Such procedures are extremely sensitive and painful for children, as well as for others involved, and therefore, in the first place, it is important to feel and protect children's benefits. The possibility of delaying the implementation of the decision on the protection and upbringing of the child will be re-ordered, taking into account circumstances which would suggest that immediate enforcement would not be in line with the protection of the child's interests. This is a very complex issue and I wonder how these circumstances will be assessed in practice. However, since the changes in this area are prepared on the basis of recommendations made by the specific interinstitutional working group, which has been established in such cases and has drawn up a special protocol, we hope that this protocol will help to facilitate and improve the implementation of these procedures. The draft law also allows for the postponement of enforcement at the request of the debtor or on an official basis. This should be the case when the debtor lodges an action against the invalidity of a legal transaction from a directly enforceable notary record. The purpose of this solution is to provide adequate protection for the debtor when justified reasons are given. In the SAB Group, we ask ourselves whether such a solution can further extend the already very long enforcement procedures, especially because the notary record itself, especially if directly enforceable, provides a very high level of probability that it is a valid legal transaction. The fact of the enforcement procedure is that its primary purpose is to exercise the right to the protection of the creditor and to enforce the decision as quickly as possible, but not at any cost. Thus, the court will be able to postpone enforcement in the event of enforcement to the debtor's home if it is a recovery of a financial claim which is clearly disproportionate to the value of the property, or if enforcement would significantly jeopardise the position and interests of the debtor. This is a known case that we all know from practice and the solution, as proposed, also follows the position of the Constitutional Court. The bill exempts domestic animals from enforcement, which we absolutely welcome in the SAB Group. Such a change follows the recent definition of animals as sentient living beings in the novel of the Real Law Code, which we have also supported in our parliamentary group. This is two major steps towards the recognition of the specific status of animals, which will have a positive impact on the general treatment of domestic animals. Such changes will also help us to achieve better protection and welfare of animals, for we cannot compare them with things, especially when it comes to pets. A special bond arises between animals and owners and the replacement of the owner would result in suffering, not only to the owner, and could have a negative impact on the welfare of both. The proposed amendment also expands the debtor's access to the Supreme Court. Thus, both the creditor and the debtor will have a significantly more equal position with regard to the possibility of access to the Supreme Court, and the provision will have a positive impact on the development of uniform case law, says the applicant. In the SAB Group, we ask once again whether these additional options of the debtor will not further extend the length of the enforcement procedure. Regardless of what is said in the SAB Group, we estimate that the proposal brings a number of positive solutions. While we are aware that the enforcement procedure is primarily intended for the creditor, we hope that solutions relating to debtors will be very useful and welcome, and in particular solutions relating to the protection of the benefit of children and to the welfare of animals. We will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues all have a nice day! The Basic Law lays down the rules of procedure by which courts enforce enforcement of claims on the basis of enforceable addresses and authentic documents. Among other things, a law with a number of provisions defines restrictions and exemptions or defines objects and benefits that are not subject to enforcement. Such provisions shall be designed to protect the debtor’s poor financial and social situation, i.e. to protect the existence of a minimum of the debtor in whose assets he or she is subject to enforcement. The bill brings many good solutions that have already been discussed by the proposer and my predecessors, so I will not list them again here. But I'll point out two areas. For the Desus Group, the solution in the field of operations is essential. We have often discussed this pressing issue in the National Assembly. Regrettably, the daily problem of society is that of individuals who find themselves in severe social distress. While the law in force gives the debtor considerable opportunity to postpone and prevent the sale of property, on the other hand, we have a creditor who is usually in these long-term judicial proceedings who has already demonstrated his right to pay and whose fundamental right is to pay it. The proposed buffer for the extension of the duration of the deferral and the possibility of granting a postponement only if, in particular, the debtors' home is appropriate and necessary in our view. What exactly does this change bring? The Court is obliged to consider whether further execution would endanger the position and interests of the creditor, while the debtor must demonstrate that it was not in a position to deal with the living issue otherwise. Thus, execution at the debtor’s home may be delayed, however, if the debtor of the bibian problem could not have arranged otherwise. At the same time, the court will also have to weigh the creditors' position, since it is often because of the default of the claim to its debtor that it finds itself in severe distress, even in extant distress. However, there is something else to be added. In the public, it is often the impression that our assignments take place in a mass and without mercy. But it's not like that. Data, for example, from 2005 to 2015 is said to be for a 10-year period, show clearly that there were approximately 7,000 300 proposals for implementation and that less than 1.5 per cent were implemented. Of course, special attention must be paid to each department. It is extremely sensitive to all involved in their own home, especially when it comes to evicting people who are in severe material distress, especially when they find themselves in it without their guilt. However, the second set that we expose in the Desus Group is the specificity of executions in the case of family relations — the seizure of children. It is not long before all of us have been able to monitor through the media the cruelty of the abduction of children, but at this point I do not judge the rightfulness or unjustifiably of this institution. However, the fact is that the conduct involved in this withdrawal was, in a kind manner, inappropriate. Members of our Group point out that in such cases it is essential to give priority to child protection in the first place. The child is often unaware of what lies ahead, and too many times it is just a tool to account for adults. I'm sorry. And unfortunately, there's more. Such withdrawals, even though justified and carried out in a more child-friendly manner, may leave lasting psychological problems that may further lead to health problems. That is why we call on the care, expertise and compassion of all those involved in this place in our parliamentary group, as they can already leave deep and lasting wounds in our little ones. In the position of the Desus Group, I have not even mentioned the other segments of the changes, but we support them. As we support the exposed set of child abductions and removals. In our Group of Members, we are aware of the problems and problems in this area. The execution process itself is undoubtedly cruel and unforgivable for the affected persons. We can only hope that the number of these procedures will decrease. In our Group of Members, we consider the proposed amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance to be necessary, and we will therefore support the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Wednesday in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Periods of the day, secondly, the bill on the national demographic composition. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for further explanation of the bill. Peter Ješovnik, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u90	Chairman, thank you. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a second consideration of the draft law on the National Demographic Fund, the first such treatment in the National Assembly, after the legal basis for its adoption was established in 2013 in the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The legislative procedure for the bill started on 6 October 2020. It held a general debate in which the National Assembly assessed that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. It was presented to the Economic and Social Council and discussed at five meetings of the negotiating group. There was also a public hearing within the various round tables, which were attended by recognised experts and professors. It was also discussed on the Commission of the National Council for National Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, on the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and at the 37th meeting of the Council of State. Both Commissions supported the bill and were also endorsed by the State Council. In the context of the public examination of the draft law, all good proposals were taken into account to ensure, in particular, the additional transparency of the distribution and integrity of the Fund and the companies in which the Fund has a majority or dominant influence through the amendments adopted in the second reading of the Committee on Finance. On a proposal from the Commission to prevent corruption and the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, substantive additions were adopted by the introduction of a staff commission of the Fund, the Commissioner for Business Compliance and Integrity, the supervision of the property situation of management and the members of the management and control body, and the duty to disclose and avoid conflicts of interest. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly were also taken into account. Through this democratic process in the last five months, we have come up with an improved proposal for a National Demographic Fund Act, the basic function of which will be co-financing the pension fund in part of the transfer revenue from the state budget, and thus a burden on the budget so that other social, development, investment and other policies of the country can be implemented smoothly. The substance of the law proposal is to ensure that the Fund has as much assets as possible with the ownership and management consolidation of the State's capital investments, with some justified exceptions, as only in this way can sufficient additional and permanent resources be provided for the growth of the Fund's assets and the achievement of the Fund's higher returns without unnecessary duplication of functions and costs of several current state-owned owners. At the same time, a uniform, transparent, safe and more efficient system of corporate governance of state-owned companies is established. Only in this way will it be possible to ensure maximum co-financing of the pension fund, without delay, not after fifteen or twenty years. The pensioner chooses not enough pension funds for today, and at present the dream of a great deal of pressure to address the effects of the covid-19 epidemic on the state budget. That is why fair, balanced and cost-effective action is needed today, on the basis of general intergenerational solidarity, which will include both the younger and the older population of citizens and citizens. The bill includes: for the first time, the accumulation of the fund's assets of 40 per cent of dividends and 60 per cent of purchases. Secondly, the payment of 40 per cent of dividends and 40 per cent of potential purchases into the pension register. Thirdly, the provision of funds to co-finance policies for the care of older persons of 10 per cent of dividends and fourthly, the provision of funds to co-finance family policy measures of 10 per cent of dividends. The management of the investment of the Fund will be based on the management strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The independence, expertise, transparency, prudence and responsibility of the Fund’s investment management will be ensured by the Fund’s professional and balanced Supervisory Board, whose members will be appointed by the Government, namely 4 members, and the National Assembly of 7 members, which will also appoint each of these 7 members on a proposal from young people and pensioners. The draft law also includes the supervision of the Court of Auditors over the Fund and the regular reporting of the Fund to the National Assembly. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that, if business conditions are met, it should carry out a third hearing or vote on the law at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 31st meeting on 10 February this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on the National Demographic Fund, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly for its decision. With an introductory explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the draft law and stressed that a general discussion had taken place at the first reading, as well as a number of coordination with the expert groups on the proposal. The Fund presented as a fundamental solution to the stability of the pension fund in the future and to the burden of the state budget. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that most of the comments were based on a requirement for greater clarity, certainty and legal system-wide compliance of the legislative text, since the proposal regulates the content which is also regulated by other laws. These comments were also largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. With regard to the amendments of SD, LMŠ and SAB sent groups, the service found that they were proposing a different, new concept of managing the state's assets, which needed to be regulated in a comprehensive, clear, concrete and legal way. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, who expressed his support for the proposed law while at the same time taking up the additional position of representative of the national disability organisations of Slovenia in the Supervisory Board of the Fund. In view of the non-acceptance of the proposal to convene a public presentation of the opinions on the proposal for a national demographic fund law, the opposition parliamentary groups that proposed the call have obstructed the meeting. For the main reason, the Members cited the absence of public coloured and the adoption of legislation without the participation of the Economic and Social Council and other stakeholders. They expressed their expectations about consensus and demanded that the proposal be declared inappropriate for further consideration. In doing so, they highlighted in particular the problem of concentration of state property in government hands. In the debate that followed, Members mainly pointed out that the debate on this law had already begun a year ago at the time of the signing of the coalition treaty and that the national demographic fund should have been set up in 2015. In doing so, they stressed that the draft law was tabled in October last year, and some parliamentary groups proposed a public presentation of opinions only four months later. Members stressed that the establishment of the Fund would relieve the state budget, which now covers the deficit in the pension fund, and stabilise the pension fund. The debate highlighted five key points where the coalition and the opposition have so far been unable to agree on, and therefore a political decision is needed. These points are: organisation of the management and management of investments, provision of additional funding resources, time of collection or accumulation of funds prior to their use, assessment of the size of the fund's assets and, consequently, assessment of the Fund's payments in future periods. The view was also expressed that the law would have to be amended in the future and additional funding sources, such as forest management revenues, increases in the level of social security contributions and the use of part of value added tax revenues. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted amendments to the parliamentary coalition groups. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by the SD, LMŠ and SAB members. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 53rd extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today. We are therefore going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments published on the e-club. First, we turn to the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1, which is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 38, then the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB groups to Article 1, which is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 70, so we will discuss all amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1, 38 and 70 and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI MPs and the three amendments of SD, LMŠ and SAB. Since I see interest in the debate, I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have five reported debaters, the first to receive the word Mr Miha Kordiš, followed by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As is in line with parliamentary practice, I will put my debate on a more conceptual basis at the first amendment, and then I will get closer to some more detailed topics. You may remember, ladies and gentlemen, but certainly remember the citizens and citizens who accompany us, that there was one of the passwords with which Levica entered the National Assembly – today it seems so far away 2014 – that we are also against privatisation and labour management. This was also the password, under which a few years later we entered the streets, a few thousand of us gathered together to defend Telekom from being privatized by the then government of Janez Janša. Our basic argument is very simple, it is confirmed, also proven in practice. The best companies, pardons, companies are best managed if they are managed by a cooperative association of the working group and the community. Employees in companies are those who know best how their work process looks, and their life interest is most attached to the way a good business works and how it operates. Unfortunately, in the last 30 years, we have seen a good breakdown of the labour force in companies. The management of state property, unfortunately, is no exception. Corporate governance systems are established everywhere through a management vertical and employees, workers and workers are removed from decision-making. In Levi, we think it would have to be the opposite. Work management is needed to develop both individual companies and the whole economic sector and to ensure the well-functioning of publicly owned enterprises. All created value comes from work; it is created by employees with their brains and their hands. Knowledge accumulated in an industrial cluster owned by the public is also not some knowledge that would come from an enlightened manager, but that stands on the knees of the human generation, belongs to the whole community. These are all arguments why public-owned enterprises should also be maintained. Instead of working with them as a pig with fur and subjugating certain human resources, it is usually necessary to deliver their management to working groups that serve their daily bread, which are also the most interested in the existence of these companies, and which are the key drivers for the developmental direction of companies, in a direction that is also beneficial for the community in which companies operate, and not that they are just some troughs that the management caste exhausts and the political class sells. This is exactly what the government of Janez Janša wants to achieve with the current form of the demographic fund. He's pursuing a double goal. On the one hand, to privatise the state of silver, and on the other hand to control it with the fitters in the apparatus. Do we need some fund to manage the state's assets? My answer to that is yes. The fund for the management of state assets called the demographic fund, as we have it, which will contribute to the pension fund in fact negligible amounts, is called extremely misleading. This is not a demographic fund, because in the field of demographics it will achieve absolutely nothing with such a flag as it is made. With him, the government is aiming for something completely different. Not a centralisation of assets that would be in the service of some rational management of the economy instead of a market upheaval, such as current practice, but by controlling economic leverage with the loyal staff of SDS parties and of course privatising companies. What privatisations look like, especially with us, that's how we know. We do not know in practice a good case of privatisation that would really be useful for a company that would be useful for those who are employees in companies that work in companies. Remember, for example, the privatized Helios, as he was seated on him by the Austrian Ring, immediately shut down a bunch of jobs, cut off the fire brigade that worked there, and then sold it for a big profit to a third party two years later. But a story, say, from the financial sector. NKBM, which was saved by the state with billions of public money, sold it for 250 million euros. At the time of purchase of this bank, I think the Apollo Fund was that predatory, predatory financial fund, which was owned by the NKBM, he made an immediate profit only by buying a well-capitalised bank for small money. These are not exceptions, these are rules on how privatisation takes place: the pursuit of personal interest in the service of a lobbyist or in the service of a capital cluster. We can also look forward to the exact same logic in the future: job closure, moving development departments, increasing social dumping, this is the demographic fund and managing state assets, as is the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Next Discussant [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Pogačnik, you have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure and I am warning you in advance if you are violating it, I will give you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u96	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. In view of the fact that the debate is beginning, I would just like to remind my colleague Miho Kordiš that he is likely to have a lapsus in his debate. Lapsus regarding the privatisation of Telekom [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u97	Mr Pogačnik, I give you my first warning because you are abusing the procedural proposal for a controversy with the previous debater. Please tell me what your procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u98	You'll give me three minutes. Three minutes to warn that there have been frauds, namely the privatisation of Telekom in 2014, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u99	Mr Pogačnik, I give you a second warning because you are in violation of the procedural provision concerning the procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u100	which took place during the time of the Government of Mr Cerar [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u101	And you've already taken the word, if not, I'd give it to you. [[…]] This was extremely inappropriate, since we all know what procedural proposals are intended for, and you have now gravely violated it. I ask you kindly to refrain from doing so next time, because otherwise I will not give you another word for a procedural proposal. I'm warning you so much in advance. The next panellist is Mr Robert Polnar, Mr Soniboj Knezak is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The fundamental dilemma faced by our opposition colleagues' amendments is, in fact, what the size of the demographic fund should be, what the accumulation period should be, if we are to use the accumulation period at all, and of course, depending on the size of the assets that the planned future yields. Clearly, it is based on four, five months and all that has happened not only inside this hall but also outside it, that we will probably not be able to reach that desired consensus. When talking about the demographic challenges of a society, they must be understood in the broadest context and in all its pervasive characteristics of causes and consequences. They are reflected in the composition, state and movement of the population. What can the Slovenian state do to solve demographic problems for that urgently needed balance between the working and retired generation? The requirements of demographic policy are acute in Slovenia and are most expressed in the stability and sustainability of pension funds, the adequacy of long-term care and the appropriate situation of family policy. The social essence of the objective of people's economic and social well-being needs to be strengthened by implementing demographic policy measures, also through the use of available sources of funding resulting from the use of national wealth. The success and effectiveness of such behaviours depend most on the political will to take decisive action. The most important measure is the finalisation of a demographic fund which, with clear objectives and relevant financial inputs, can respond rapidly to the priorities highlighted in the field of demographic policy. It is therefore time to decide on an appropriate institutional solution to regulate the establishment of sustainable sources of non-financing, namely co-financing, management and management, and the quality of the future operation of the national wealth manager. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, there will be no stable resources in the future, both by content and by height. The revenue side with its own dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing cost needs. The debate on the structure of the demographic fund also calls for perhaps a somewhat unconventional view over the next two decades, which, in view of a slight deviation from that established view. The general thesis is that an increasing proportion of the elderly within the entire population will require more and more expenditure on pensions in the coming decades. Consider, for example, ladies and gentlemen, only the information that in 1991 the retirement age was 54 years and 9 months. Last year at the end of 2020 was the retirement age of 61 years and 8 months. It's been seven years. In 30 years, the retirement age increased by 7 years. Is it completely unrealistic, then, to expect people, for example, to retire 20 to 30 years later at 67 or 68 years of age? Does this not call for redefining the concept of an older person and also the proportion of the elderly within the entire population? The percentage of GDP allocated by Slovenia to the financing of pensions is also very talkative. In 2019 it was 9.6 per cent and last year it was 10.8 per cent. By comparison, in Austria this percentage is between 14% and 15% in Italy, 16% in Germany and 10% in Slovenia. And most importantly, today we are faced with young people entering the labour market much later, into their first job, as we, for example, did, from my generation, 60-year-olds. Therefore, an increase in the average age at entry into the labour market, subject to the requirement of 40 years of working age, can in fact mean that the retirement age will be over 20 or over 30 years of those 67 or 68 years. In the debates on the demographic fund there was a lot to talk about, a large deal, a ramp and a pump, about the necessity of maintaining the Slovenian model of corporate governance. Of course, we need to know that the demographic fund will be organised in the state-of-the-art form of a shareholder society, according to the classic capital company. With the complications of corporate governance in Slovenia, of course, we have extensive experience. Modern-day complications have only increased with financialisation and business deregulation. That is why we also have the last 10, 15 years, perhaps even 20 years of reports, various reports, legislative changes, system recommendations and ethical codes. In the background of all of this, there is a controversial theory of companies and an old market demagogy that for the company the capital, administration and supervisory councils represent the interests of shareholders rather than the interests of companies and a wider society. In fact, the business concept in Slovenia has not penetrated the legislative, business or accounting standards and therefore corporate governance is not only an economic but also a moral issue. What we did faithfully in Slovenia was to regulate corporate governance in accordance with the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, with its famous guidelines. These guidelines have one main, fundamental advantage: to prevent a country as owner from exercising its management and ownership rights as much as possible. Corporate governance has thus become part of the populist demagogies, the flawed exclusive sovereignty of capital and the divisional prey of miraculous human resources commissions. This claim may also be illustrated. Only a slightly more precise view of the annual report of the Slovenian State Holding for the business year 2019 is sufficient. I was interested in what this glorious Slovenian corporate governance looks like in practice, so I first looked at the composition of the administration. It's three-member. In 2019, six persons were classified in the administration, and only one person was a member of the administration for the whole business year. His income in this business year was slightly less than €130,000 gross. A more interesting view of conduct is, however, the income of the members of the Governing Council. Also in the debate on the demographic fund is one of the most insolvent and sung compositions of the Supervisory Board and the fight for the Supervisory Board to be as numerous as possible. For 2019, I reviewed the composition of the Supervisory Board in the Slovenian State Holding Board and found that three, two members and one member were on the Supervisory Board throughout the year, and the Supervisory Board also had what I had just talked about, the miracle Slovenian Commission – SDH, four of them, the nomination, the audit committee, the risk committee and the Human Resources Commission. In addition to the regular membership of the nomination and audit committee, two members of the Supervisory Board earned EUR 33 000 gross in one year. One member, who, in addition to the regular membership of the nomination commission and the risk commission, was 32 000 euros gross. We are speaking for 2019, then, for example, the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia was EUR 000,851 gross, which annually amounts to EUR 22 000,200. This means that a person with a membership in one supervisory world earned one and a half average gross wages. It is therefore clear, of course, that the desire to preserve the existing situation is so strong. Nor can we demand the professional responsibility of the supervisory councils, but we can have amateur governance, which is particularly true of our two-tier system. Corporate governance should become a professional area with state certification. Loss of license due to infringements also means loss of profession. This is the only right path for serious and responsible people, not a variety of codes or the final outcome of a court. We've developed a system that obviously doesn't work. We're talking about depoliticization, and then we're surprised when third-class careers get caught in human resources networks. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, corporate governance is an old blind spot of the market economy. Adam Smith in the wealth of the nations does not find a good word for equity societies, both those regulated by a special royal seal as well as those of others, completely private. Simplely, the capital managed by administrations is more foreign than theirs, so carelessness and loss prevail. So politics has never been separated from stock companies, not yesterday and not today. Of course, there is a completely on-the-spot question here and now whether the management of state property really requires so many organisations, so many administrations and so many different investment and management policies. Therefore, the demographic fund will be organised as a share company. It should be pointed out that running such a modern-day large economic society is a very difficult task, far beyond the authority or ability of the most determined individual. Group effort, intelligence, specialization are needed; in short, corporate bureaucracy is needed. Success comes with collective energy, with general and specific knowledge, self-confirmation, efforts for a financial reward and well-developed ability to manage, survive and dominate. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for economic and political understanding sometimes requires directness. Let no one be in doubt, shareholders, owners and their supposed representatives are in every major company, in every major shareholder society subordinated to management. Although it offers an impression of the authority of the owners, it does not really exist. And that is essential for such a conceptual demographic fund. We can theorize on fundamental investments, on their heights, on their future returns, but management will be the one who will have scissors and canvas in his hands. We can talk long and wide about how many members the Supervisory Board should have, who should appoint these members, but in an operational sense, as regards daily business policy, in particular those currently involved in the use and management of entrepreneurial structures, systems and processes, will have a crucial role to play on a day-to-day basis. I think it's very good to be aware of that. Personally, I am not in favor of such a large or so numbered oversight council. I've been a supporter of the need to accumulate assets for at least a 20-year period. Everything that has been happening in the past year, particularly the epidemic crisis, has convinced me that the accumulation period would now be an excessive risk in terms of the public financial situation. Today, it is highly unlikely that the demographic fund, due to the accumulation of its assets, would spend several years not paying co-financing into the pension fund. The pension system is largely – 20 per cent, perhaps more than 20 per cent – dependent on co-financing of the state budget. This is in terms of the idea of the demographic fund of extremely important information. However, I think that the situation is that the single management of the entire portfolio is, in order to provide funds to the pension system, the decision to be taken. Regardless of the fact that I do not agree with certain matters in the law, I think that a law as formulated or formed is acceptable as a compromise. I am aware, however, that the size of the assets, as it is set up, is not enough for future returns and that the size of the assets will need to be complemented, perhaps even by one of the major systemic sources, which is, of course, a matter of future decisions, which is likely to be necessary in this case, I am talking about the perspective of cutting down one of the key tax revenues in the context of the revenue of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word to prepare Mojca Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues! The problems of the pension allowance date back to 1996, when the policy at the time decided and nearly half reduced the contribution rate for employers to the ZPIZ cash register. Since then, there has been a constant deficit somewhere in the amount that is being judged around a billion euros, how a year more, how a year less. What policy has already done in the past is that it has committed itself or set up a course in which it is intended to resolve this financial deficit or to establish a demographic fund. At least two laws have been passed and spoken in this direction over the past years, and this is the law of ZPIZ, which stipulates that, due to demographic indicators, we must establish a demographic fund – it was even the deadline that we had already, I think, five, six years ago – and the Law on Slovenian State Holding, which says that Kad is transforming into a demographic fund. We had a proposal for a law that followed these political guidelines months ago, and unfortunately it was transported by the coalition in this National Assembly. She made her own proposal. Several proposals on such an important topic as the establishment of a demographic fund are certainly welcome. It grieves us, however, when we receive this bill or amendments that we are considering with this bill of the coalition, the fact that this law will deal with everything but the real problem. This is due to the financial deficit arising from the pension fund and which, over the years, in these critical years around 2035 to 2040, will cause the biggest problems for the pension fund. The current policy has decided that if I return to the numbers a little bit. In addition, I will only stick to this, guidance as regards this law and financial revenue in the ZPIZ cash register in about 20 years, there around 2040. This is what this bill, tabled by the coalition, provides for a transfer of EUR 8.6 billion of state property. I repeat: €8.6 billion, of which ZPIZ's deficit treasury, which is supposed to be the main purpose of this law, will pay off the 200 million circus somewhere in 2040. The remainder of the silver that this country still has of 8.6 billion will give 200 million in 20 years to the pension fund. In the absence of any dilemma, we are all aware that neither our proposal before nor this government is the final solution, it is addressing a small part of the deficit, and other measures will be needed. I think – before me, my colleague has already explained some of the directions – that we will have to consider raising these percentages of our interest to the PIZ. If we want to make a living, even when you're somewhere in retirement, it'll be appropriate for a man, not with the pensions we're paying today. These percentages are increasing – mentioned earlier in Austria, 14 per cent, this is different – but mostly all the surrounding countries, the majority of which have regulated systems, have significantly higher contributions to PPIZ's cash registers. This government law will deal with the deficit by one small piece, as I said, while our previous proposal - to compare it - has allocated 1.4 billion national assets. At 20-year accumulation in 2040, they could spend between 400 million and 500 million in this fund. The current government proposal – a transfer of assets of 8.6, to the pension box – a circus of 200 million. Our proposal to transfer the assets of 1.4 billion, after 20 years, will contribute to the ZPIZ cashiers somewhere between 400 and 500 million. Everything else that the coalition partners have committed to this law is also the areas that need to be regulated, but not in the Demographic Fund Act. What is missing is this decision of some small group, mostly the ideas of SDS, I think that the remaining coalition has contributed a little bit more to the content of this law, but it is intended to do so, as I said, here is the final phase of privatisation, not to say wildly, but open hunting for the rest of the state property, the silver that this country still has, because we are simplifying the procedures for the management of all state assets, the placement of loyal people, we are in short form establishing a mastadont which will also deal to a lesser extent with the allocation of the deficit in the ZPIP. As I said, this was prepared by a small group, mainly SDS, of course nobody thought of it, not even the ruling coalition, not that it is a topic that requires a wider social consensus. There was no public debate; it was not going through the Economic and Social Council. As a result, a referendum is being prepared as likely as possible if this law is to be adopted. In short, the taxpayer's money will go out to do what I should have done a long time ago. It is completely irrelevant, at least what Comrade Polnar said, who will lead the way, what an overseer, what wages are. Today we are talking about a fundamental problem that is not being resolved by this bill. What follows is this proposal of Article 1 and follows the existing policies in this area, as I have mentioned, the transformation of Kad into a demographic fund and, of course, all our later amendments are going in this direction to resolve the deficits in the way that was foreseen in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. I apologize for earlier. But get Andrea Zabrett ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I will start by making the demographic fund a necessity and we need it in Slovenia, not because the law or pension reform from 2013 obliges us to do so, but because of a truly bad demographic picture in Slovenia. With this title, I would like to see some national consensus in the adoption of this law, because pensioners are neither left nor right, but everyone wants to enjoy a decent life, enjoy a decent old age, especially by stressing that the demographic fund as an institution is not and will not and should not be directed only to a generation of current pensioners, but is also intended for young, younger generations today. It is essentially a law that is alluding to some intergenerational solidarity and, therefore, I am somehow saddened by the opposition's predictions of possible even referendums. As it is said, I would like to see the adoption of this law come to some national consensus, because today we have come up with this proposal as far as possible in the legislative process. We know that they have existed in the past, in the past two governments, both under the leadership of Mr Cerar and Mr Sharc, which has led to real attempts to adopt or to form a demographic fund, but unfortunately, already some intra-coalial expectations within the governments of those days have not led the law to be harmonised to this extent in order to begin the legislative procedure at all. But this time we are so far away and it would be right for all of us to be aware of the importance of this topic. Perhaps if I first came to the conclusion from the opposition, which is somehow the loudest or the most extensive one, that this bill is a covert privatisation or an attempt at some last phase of privatisation. Those who have carefully read the specific articles – I think in particular Article 31 of the Law – are precisely stating that they will be managed in accordance with the newly adopted State Property Management Strategy. We know that the first strategy was a multi-annual strategy adopted by the Government of Mir Cerar and that its expiry date is last year or this year, and that in any event it is necessary to adopt a new, updated version and this strategy will be submitted to the National Assembly for admission and approval. This means that our state assets will not be possible and will not be able to be at the disposal of the supervisory board or possibly even certain members of the administration. There, they will be very specific about what domestic investments are, what strategic investments are and what portfolio investments are to be managed more flexibly. So it doesn't hold. Nor does it hold any indication or assumption that it is some political control over state property. Of course, these are the opposition's eyewitnesses, but you may be in the opposition imagining the management of state property. The second observation that the fund is too much or that it will spend too much money on the so-called current consumption. Indeed, Article 38 provides for a formula of 40, 10, 10, 40. This means that 40 percent of the Fund’s current income will be earmarked for the ongoing coverage of the pension fund’s manoeuvring. 40 per cent will be accumulated, that is, for future pensioners and for future coverage and funding of the pension fund. That is true of the law that follows intergenerational solidarity, which is referred to by those two lines of 10 percent. Indeed, 10 per cent of income will be additionally devoted to improving the situation of older people so that they can enjoy a decent age. We are counting on this to include, for example, co-financing the construction of homes for the elderly or the provision of long-term care, which has been very shamefully promised for so many years, but has not yet been realized. Another 10 per cent will be devoted to younger generations: I encourage a more active family policy and the SMC's efforts in this amendment to Article 1 extend the possibility of co-financing the scholarship policy. Because we estimate that young people are the ones who must first come to economic independence, that is, then, some basis for family creation and self-sustainment. So in this part, I thank the coalition partners for understanding and also agreeing to this expansion of this item and that we all follow together that young people become independent as soon as possible and that this also improves our demographic picture in the future. We are pleased that in the second reading, at the Committee meeting, amendments were adopted following our first reading warnings to improve the level or standard of integrity and compliance of management, business and that the possibility of seeking professional managers with high professional references has also been introduced into the law through the assistance of international human resources agencies. In particular, foreign operators may also be the added value, of course, if they are properly and adequately supervised by the Supervisory Board, which will pursue the objectives of higher profitability on the one hand, and on the other hand the greater security of these investments. I will conclude with some re-examination or warning that the establishment of a national demographic fund should not be an excuse to avoid a thorough overhaul and modernisation of our pension system in the future. The demographic fund is not some magic wand and a new pension reform will be needed sooner or later. The demographic fund is the only pebble in the mosaic that can partially defuse the pension system by covering the difference between income and expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. First, I would respond primarily to my colleague, Polnar, and perhaps my colleague before me, that there is no consensus or national consensus. I would not agree with that, but it is true that if you are not prepared to talk or if you are not prepared to accept a slightly different concept, of course this is impossible. In LMŠ we are very aware of what the demographic fund means and how important this topic is. That is why the proposal for a law that we have before us is the view that this law is harmful. These are the facts that all stakeholders point to, this has not grown in our heads, but we have all seen opinions and comments from all stakeholders that should be included in the drafting of the law, but have not been. These are employees' representatives, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the National Council of Disabled Organizations, ZPIZ, Health Insurance, Chamber of Commerce, I probably forgot someone else. Above all, the Commission has made very serious comments and warnings to prevent corruption. The law was sent to the National Assembly without any dialogue or negotiation. In fact, it is not a fund in the true sense of the word or the charging of the pension fund that this fund should be intended for, but only after all that is seen to be an attempt to take control of state assets. Instead of the long-term sustainability of the pension fund, which should also be the objective of this fund, it provides a basis for the sale of state property and is essentially about taking over political power over some of the assets that Slovenia has. More or less the only ones agreeing to such a bill are the ruling coalition led by SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. I strongly hope that all these parties are aware of what they are doing and that they will have to take responsibility for what will happen to the pensions, property and prosperity of Slovenia in the future. We all agree that we have to do something; this is definitely indicated by demographic trends, as of today every fourth Slovenian is over 65 years old. But these problems haven't been from yesterday. The OECD has warned us about this for a number of years, and not least – otherwise that is not the point – we are also bound by legislation. Until 2015, Kad should be transformed into a demographic fund. In the 1990s, when we had more assets than liabilities, it would certainly be a better time to set up a demographic fund, and the fact is that we are at least ten years late. Today, in this way, the fund we have before us brings nothing new or good. Let us look at some concrete solutions to the bill. Firstly, it is a transfer of all assets from country to fund. The state will practically stay overnight without all the property. Everything now managed by SDH, DUTB, Kad, DSU, ZPIZ, real estate will be transferred to the fund. As a result, the cost of financing could be increased, access to financial resources worsened, the competitiveness of Slovenia decreased. At this point, I ask you, my dear coalition, you may have wondered what Slovenia's rating will mean, which you've been bragging about lately. All companies that will be owned by the Fund will be easy prey for the sale of the currently ruling SDS policy. The fund may also be sold or privatised at any time. Secondly, the fund does not follow the long-term financial sustainability of the pension fund, because it is practical to transfer from one pocket to another, and this does not represent a solution, but increases the problem. It removes budgetary resources from the country's return on capital investments and sells these investments, thereby creating a need, possibly a need, to increase taxes or reduce infrastructure investments. All dividends and potential purchases will now go instead of into the budget into the demographic fund. We all know that in no case and in no way can the demographic fund provide a decent pension, it can only partially co-finance the pension fund. The annual budget draws a growing difference between income and expenditure in the amount of contributions collected and pensions paid around one billion. It was also 1.6 billion in 2012 when there was an economic and financial crisis. This deficit is estimated to be 2.4 billion in 2040. The fund based on this asset that we have today is 8.9 billion, which means, at best, it will co-finance 150 to 200 million a year, which means only 8 percent of the necessary differences. We can achieve all of this now by not endangering the state's assets and putting everything on the table because of the perhaps partial interests of certain parties. The government has not taken care of any new resources, no new income or capital, but has only diverted from the budget to the demographic fund, where it will have easier access to state property. We also have great concerns in LMŠ about the concentration of the entire property, state property, under one fund, under one roof. Thus, companies of strategic importance for Slovenia, companies pursuing economic objectives and companies carrying out public service will be in line. Only portfolio investments that are to be recognised, profit-making and thus help unload the pension fund or are intended for sale should be in line. You have also voted an amendment where you have further transferred all the companies in which the Republic of Slovenia is now designated as founder and sole shareholder. This means that Slovenian Railways, Slovenian State Forests, Kobilna Lipica, Official Gazette and the current coalition will also be covered by the new bill or new demographic fund. I do not know the fund in the world that would have strategic importance in the portfolio of companies, such as infrastructure, telecommunications, public services and so on. You also repeal a number of laws following the establishment of the National Demographic Fund, which have regulated the management and control of state-owned companies so far, and the Fund grants new powers to intervene in institutions where it has nothing to do. There is also a very important article where you wrote that the demographic fund is not subject to the law of Lakhovnik; it is said that you will be rewarded as you wish. We have already heard today that this fund will also be aimed at saving because we will save because we will have so many fewer administrations, but it is difficult to say, after this article alone, that we will save something, and that you have already set up a demographic office that is also supposed to regulate these policies that the demographic fund is pursuing. I think that the Demography Office will soon have as many employees as all administrations have had together so far, as regards state assets. The Fund also provides for a direct consumption of funds without accumulation. I think it's clear to all of us that it's impossible to create or save money if you're wasting everything right now. The bill also provides for funding, in addition to pensions, for family policy and for building a home for the elderly. Today we have also seen the amendment of coalition parties that the fund will also be designed to co-finance scholarship policies. Under family policy, you can imagine everything alive; I will list only a few things that are family policy. So, family policies, health, labour market and employment, housing, family benefits, parental care, pre-school education. Now, if you think everything that is written only in family policy is to be financed from the demographic fund, if you want to build homes for the elderly, where it would be more important to first regulate the Long-Term Care Act, because you would definitely burden pensions, I wonder if you might be working on an alternative budget where all these policies can be financed and have free hands at your disposal. I think that after everything this fund is supposed to fund, there's not gonna be much left for pensions. We know that demographic trends show negative consequences not only in the pension area, but also in the labour market, in health care; it is said that we need changes and adjustments in other areas as well. We can also read in the law or as far as the investment management strategy is concerned, we do not know what it will be like because it does not yet exist. However, the fact is that they are in line with companies that pursue the goal of making profits and businesses that do not pursue it and that is not their primary objective because they are engaged in an activity in the public interest. We mix apples and pears, and since we don't know what the management strategy will be, we take the cat into the frog. There is also a question of who will cover the loss that will be generated by a company. We know that there is an article written inside that Slovenia can recapitalise this fund, but what it means. That the budget will cover the loss of the demographic fund again? Let me get this straight. The solution to the demographic problem must be sought in the direction of increasing productivity and in the maximum number of working people. Young people need to get a job as soon as possible, and the elderly will have to work longer. We need a regulated system of long-term care, awareness-raising for young people to save their age from their first salary forward, while ensuring that the country is provided with appropriate legislation. The promotion of the second pillar, which is partly operational in our country and the stimulation of the third pillar, which is almost absent, therefore in the LMŠ we support the pension demographic fund, which is due to demographic trends and would solve pension cash problems. We are also absolutely in favour of a certain period of accumulation and the inclusion of companies in the demographic fund, which will be portfolio investments. The Fund must follow at least three basic principles, such as profitability, security of investment and liquidity, which is why the proposal for a law has already drawn up the entire line immediately. Why? Profitability and security are both equally important. But if you want to have a lot of profitability, then you don't have security. But if you want security, you can't have it in companies that are strategically important to the country. And in this context, security is very important. It's about paying pensions, it's a sensitive topic, and that's why it's not done like it's growing on a tree. Therefore, we cannot support this bill in the LMŠ and we will use all democratic possibilities not to make the law live in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Please, for your application. First of all, the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I would like to respond to some of the issues that have been raised several times in this debate. Most of the time, and the Government is the most unacceptable one to have the ambition to privatise state property with the demographic fund. Let me make sure that doesn't happen. Let me make sure that it is in this house, in the National Assembly, that a governance strategy will be adopted and you will have the opportunity to say what and how the state should manage this property. The ambition of the government is certainly not privatisation, but intergenerational solidarity and the provision of pensions. Secondly, it is repeatedly pointed out that assets will be transferred from the Republic of Slovenia to the National Demographic Fund. That's right. But it is also true that the national demographic fund is owned by the state. You're saying the ratings are gonna drop. We talk to several agencies over the year, with rating agencies, and our experts who are in constant contact with them do not perceive this as a problem. The property will be in the final phase, the demographic fund will be owned by the Republic of Slovenia. To make it harder for us to do this. Probably not because the demographic fund is going to work. However, we believe that this will relieve the account, which will make it easier to focus on other policies of the country, which are also very important: social, development, investment and so on. In short, the government estimates that it is going, and here we probably have a big gap that is the key intergenerational cooperation that we want to ensure. In fact, 15, 20 years of accumulation means that some generations are not included and do not benefit. You're also asking the question of covering your losses. These are, of course, undesirable and negative. You are right, the government has provided an article in case additional recapitalisation is needed to do so by the Republic of Slovenia. But I assure you, this will not be an easy process. The government will not provide any additional capital to any company that does something wrong. The government is doing this in order not to impoverish the demographic fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u112	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Good-bye, everybody! To begin with, I would say that our parents had already wondered what the pension would be like and whether we would receive it or not. The current arrangement we have is that money literally goes from hand to mouth. People who have worked for 40 years or more and who have paid for the state treasury end up earning a solid pension, not all of which are currently receiving. Some even receive a lower pension of EUR 400, in addition to the fact that the current regime is a heavy burden on the state budget of Slovenia. So that there will be no mistake, they are not the pensioners of the budget burden, for they have earned their pensions hard and fair. The burden is a current regime that is neither fair nor sustainable. Given that time has not been found in the past or there was no interest in setting up such a fund, I must say that we are now almost a little late, but better late than never, while our country still has some assets. We are all aware that our country urgently needs long-term and stable financing of pensions and sources of funding. It seems sad to me, but it is true that we are one of the oldest societies in the European Union, and we also ask ourselves here, or we know why families today mostly decide for one or two children. A large number of couples, however, find this wonderful role in life to be parents as well as failures or find themselves in health or financial distress and, of course, in uncertainty for the future. Fear is often the reason for most families to stay with only one child. Fear of having a child’s job will receive an appropriate payment for his work and, ultimately, an eternal question will also receive a solid pension for his long - term efforts. Our country is in urgent need of this law, which we are adopting yesterday, because we are already quite behind today and most of the state's assets have already been acquired. The previous governments have talked a lot about this issue, and obviously there was never a suitable time for this law and a real interest in merging state assets into a single fund to fund pensioners. So, it has been said, it has not happened, and it has been since 2012, when you decided in the National Assembly that we need a demographic fund. To this day, to this government of Janez Janša, who is still aware of these issues and accepts the strategic documents, including this law, which is still important to our apprentices, and I think that everyone in this temple of democracy is still aware that this is the only solution for providing pensions to our children, grandchildren and so on. This is about transferring state assets to the fund, creating synergies and increasing the profitability of state assets, which will enable Slovenian pensioners to have higher pensions, and do not be misled that this is the last step of privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has Master Alenka Bratušek, prepare for Miha Kordišek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The fact is, what we have in front of us today is not D from the demographic fund. It is very interesting to read the views of the members of the current coalition until they were in the same coalition. It should be fair to say that the only one who has the same direction and direction here is a SDS client who wants to subdue the entire state property. This needs to be made clear. On 21 May 2019, in the National Assembly, the debate on the SDS proposal, which is virtually identical to what you have or have today on the table. But that was the position. Desus' position, Robert Polnar said: »The idea of transforming the Slovenian State Holding into a demographic fund contains an important and difficult to overcome internal contradiction. It is reflected in the conflict between the development interests of fund-owned enterprises and their financing and the provision of a high capital and dividend return to finance future pensions. The question raised is not only hypothetical, for example, whether the fund will finance the recapitalisation of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, as long as this is necessary for the sake of poor business, literally on the shoulders of the pensioners, their future pensions. In the Desus Group we advocate the transformation of the capital company into a demographic fund because the capital company of pension insurance was established in 1996 precisely to provide additional funds for the pension fund. The bill under consideration today aims to ensure that all state assets, strategic assets and portfolios are pooled together in only one legal form. It is clear that learning from mistakes in Slovenian political and corporate practices means repeating them, not eliminating them." Interestingly, less than one year later, all of this changed, according to Desus. Position SMC, Monika Gregorčič: »In the Modern Centre Party Group, we cannot agree with such a substantive solution. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund provides for the merger of all state assets under one roof, under one umbrella shareholding company. The ownership and supervisory function would be exercised or controlled by parliamentary political parties through the National Assembly, even contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, some political forces also had the most important influence on the management of state assets, on certain strategic investments that the policy did not seem to want to lose influence, but that is not what we are and I will never agree to.” That's an interesting twist. The position of New Slovenia, Matthew Tonin: »Of course, in this law I see one great risk, and this is the management of this Slovenian demographic fund. If we have everything gathered in one place and if this is very well managed, then they can produce extremely large. On the other hand, if there is bad governance and we have everything in one place, it can also mean great losses. Slovenia has not demonstrated itself in the management of state assets in the past. There was a lot of political recruitment, political bargaining, where the best manager was not selected, but the most elected was our manager. As a result, many wrong decisions are made. Therefore, New Slovenia would support such a solution if we went to collect all state property under one roof, so that this property would not be managed by politics, but that, according to the example of some other countries, we would prepare an international invitation to tender to find a company to manage it.” Today, the picture is completely different. All those mentioned clearly agree with what the SDS party proposes. This is really such a corrected, honest conversion for the benefit of pensioners – you want to convince people and pensioners. It's a long way from here. Far from it! The funds collected in the demographic fund should be allocated only to pensions. Everything else, from scholarships, family policies, home building, must provide the state budget. This is the first big one or maybe the biggest mistake. Of this demographic fund, neither the present nor future pensioners will have anything, absolutely nothing, maybe the customers of some chair in the supervisory councils and administrations, but the pensioners — nothing. If we are to ensure the stability of the pension fund through this demographic fund, the funds should be collected for a period of time. No! No! You will transfer the property there and, horruk, immediately spread it to everyone alive, to cover it as much as possible, without seeing how much of it is received and how much of it is in the end. And what you wanted already in 2012 with the Slovenian State Holding – and then failed – I hope that it will not succeed today – is to transfer the ownership of state-owned companies with one swing to the company, even if it is 100 per cent owned by the State, that means that the state loses its assets. Pika. That's a fact. The state may directly own it, but in one stroke, you'll dispossess the state of all property. We are therefore convinced in the Sab party that people need to be asked if they agree; if they agree to one government to decide and so, horruk, take everything that has been created for many years. The property is less than we'd like, but after your move, it'll be nothing. The Republic of Slovenia will be the owner of nothing or I am rectified, and I ask myself, an amendment has been tabled to allow some companies, the Febd of one party, to remain the property of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment has been tabled by the coalition, apparently in order for one coalition party to support it. You'll look around and see if that's what this is about. Otherwise, I don't see any reason for you to decide everything, why not everything. Why will you leave exactly the February controlled by one party in the coalition – ownership of companies – in the Republic of Slovenia? Once again, it would be right for business ownership to remain in the Republic of Slovenia and the demographic fund to manage it, as is the case today in the Slovenian State Holding. Maybe more information, how much money has been collected from the last dividends, profits from dividends, in the last 10 years. I'm going to say round and round: 2 billion in 10 years. We are in the pension fund as an additional obligation, so this is what would not have to be put into the pension fund if the contributions were enough to pay pensions, which was not only 8 billion in 10 years, as I said the last time, but 10 billion. Now, if we put this together, it means that all the profits, we could say, went to pensions in 10 years. According to your proposal, only 40 per cent will go, which means that if the law were in force 10 years ago, this proposal of yours, the SDS, would have paid 800 million from dividends to pension bills – now we are 2 billion. I mean, this is a phenomenal proposal that will really make a big plus for the pension fund and a big plus for Slovenian pensioners! I sincerely want you to support our proposal, and on what we are talking about today, we ask people whether they agree that one stroke will grant them everything to pick up all the countries, or whether they agree that the demographic fund pays everything alive, not just the pension. And then when people tell you what they think, you either adopt this law or you don't accept it. In Sab, of course, we think that this is a big mistake, and until they formed a coalition, they also thought in Desus, SMC and New Slovenia. It's such a very, very small step towards radically changing your mind. Unfortunately, at the expense of the current and future pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u116	Thank you very much. This has now been one such demonstration of the populist debate of the former prime minister, but I would still like to say that [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Populistic debates, Mrs. Masha. You quoted an exception to the context [[Laughing in the hall]] And, of course, Mrs. Bratusek compared apples and pears. The current law was tabled by the SDS Group of Members and was not, in any way, comparable to the solutions that have been settled in today's proposal for a demographic fund law. As you know, the law of the Member States cannot contain such specifics. What is one key solution, this law will be followed by an updated new strategy for the management of state assets, and this is a key solution for SMCs to continue to manage state assets at the highest professional level. So you don't mix apples and pears. There is no problem with a particular concept or certain changes [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]] I'm asking my colleagues not to disturb my replica and they're a little more collegiate. It's not a problem that [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u117	Madam Members, I apologize for taking the floor. I'm really asking you not to interrupt a pay phone on the side of the SAB. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u118	I wanted to point out that there were no two similar proposals for marriage, so the comparison is not appropriate and appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u120	However, I would ask, Madam Vice-President, that you begin your work and that you, as those who preside over the meeting and interpret the rules of procedure, are responsible for not using the replica for the debates. Let the colleague stand in line and discuss as a response to the debate of Mr Bratušek. That wasn't a replica. She gave no indication of how misunderstood she was and what was said by Ambassador Bratušek. Ambassador Bratušek quoted what Ambassador Gregorčič once said. And you allowed the debate when we protested it, but you tricked us. That's how you're leading the debate. Follow the procedure as the Vice President has to, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u121	Mrs Kociper, you were obviously not in the hall when Mrs Gregorčič discussed. She said that these were two different concepts. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Get Luka Moon ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u122	I just found out that you can have two different concepts that are basically the same. And the realization of this concept under the government of Janez Janša says that the demographic fund should essentially solve two things: the question of pensions, if we read the demographic fund as a demographic fund and the question of pensions has reached a safe age, and the issue of governance of state property, if we focus on the demographic fund. Sadly, the truth is that the demographic fund of John Janša does not save either. I'm going to start with the question of safe age or, within this, the question of pensions. The pension fund, which pays our pensions, is expected to pay 200 million euros in 2040; this is about a projection, that is an invoice. In the case of a few billion people who are retired in the Republic of Slovenia, EUR 200 million drops into the sea. A huge amount, yes, but compared to the amounts we're talking about, it's really a small thing. Therefore, the demographic fund cannot contribute to this part of the response. Moreover, the pension register already records the deficit, this deficit is covered by the Republic of Slovenia from its budget. Last year, it was just over a billion euros, if I'm not mistaken, a billion and 150 million euros. At the same time, this budget, which complements the deficits in the pension register, also derives from the profits of publicly owned companies. If we now skip the shift of profits from state-owned enterprises to the budget and then the budget finances the pension fund, we can find that the payments from the demographic fund to the pension fund are basically just a transfer of money from one pocket to another. The total amount of funds needed to raise pensions in order to finance the construction of homes for the elderly, additional staff, nurses in nursing homes and so on, this mass does not increase. In short, under the line, pension issues, the care of the elderly, and so on, the demographic fund will not be resolved. It will not even be saved by the numbers that the proponents of this demographic fund themselves defend. The only way to raise the income side is to raise the contributions that fill the pension fund. Currently, payments to the pension fund, as far as contributions are concerned, are unfairly distributed: workers contribute once more than employers contribute. The original sin dates back to 1996, when the employers' contribution rate was roughly halved by the argument of the policy at the time that employers should be freed to invest in research and development. Well, this investment, it's hard to say it happened. However, over €10 billion has been lost in the period since this halvation of contributions and benefits for employers to date. I'm just saying by memory. I think this number is approaching or moving about 12, 13 billion — something like that. This is a huge fallout, a huge hole that we have paid all citizens and citizens by transferring from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and thus burdened employers without harming the level of pensions. We have a drilled pension fund – not in the pension fund in the pension cash register, and this hole will continue to grow unless we raise the rate of contribution for employers and correct this injustice that the employees – and then future pensioners – have been given a policy in 1996. But as soon as they begin to talk about the need for employers to raise contributions and that there is no other way for us to finance our pensions in a sustainable manner, the political establishment, the right-wing tribunal especially likes to hear that it is not possible for Slovenia to make this work even more competitive, that poor employers are already paying too much wages. Let me turn this argument around. What about the poor pensioners? There are 55,000 of them who date the pension of 550 euros – at least they were numbered in the past year. What about the fact that in December 2020 the lowest pension was below 300 euros? They're poor people. They're people who beat up poverty! At 40 years of work. This should be given attention. So if I move from pension issues and a safe age, which the demographic fund will not be sufficient for it, to a governance issue. It is very obvious that the demographic fund, as designed, is designed to exclude as much profits from the public-owned economy as possible, and not to manage rationally with publicly owned companies that are supposed to serve the common interests of all citizens and citizens. Where this kind of logic comes from, which is also managed by public companies as usual capitalist companies – only profit and nothing else – we see very well in the case of Posta Slovenije. What's going on with Mail Slovenia? It has 61% of businesses that do business with loss. In itself, this is really nothing very wrong. These businesses are also in remote places and are there so that any pensioner can come and pay the bills, because either he can't use information technology or he has such a low pension that the computer can't even afford it, but then we have a country that is 100 percent owner of Post Slovenia in connection with the Slovenian State Holding, which is supposed to pursue public interest, public benefit and which is supposed to help people communicate with each other, requires profitability. What are the consequences of such schizophrenia? People who work at the post office get evicted, they keep croaking with sentences, they even go into sentences because they're being treated like a pig with a moss. The rural businesses are closed, while the Post of Slovenia is investing in the acquisition of the logistics company Intereuropa, instead of sharing these millions that it has acquired with the employees who work at the post office and who have actually collected the profits it shows. And another thing that happens at the same time, while the employees who are being squeezed by low wages, which are raised by standards, are being oversized and so on, the management pays off its fabulous wages. This is a key that can be expected in all public companies at a step-up pace under the government of Janez Janša. Unfortunately, everything has become too dominant already. Basically, however, it is a matter of privatising public-owned enterprises or, if not formally privatised, working with them, as if they were private companies or speaking from a political perspective, as if they were private ports associated with actors in the government of Janez Janša. Such is the privatisation of public property and the control of this public property, an agenda that is being pursued by the government of Janez Janša. It is heavy 8.6 billion euros and if this law goes through, this property will no longer be owned by the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. its citizens and citizens, but there is a fund to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has privileged access with Janez Janša at the head. And that's it. And this government, we know, will crush, as long and wide as it is, by capital, by frame, by all means. Finally, there will be nothing left of these companies but a shellfish. Exactly as is currently happening with all subsystems in this country. The government is de facto privatizing them, spreading them, and that is exactly what will happen now with billions of state assets if we let the law go through. Public-owned companies should pursue exactly the opposite objectives of all these trends, which I have just described, without acting like capitalist firms, must pursue social needs. This is why public companies are in line with the environment for development in these companies. Let's not forget, we are not dealing only with the covida-19 crisis, climate change and climate damage are the ones that set us up for our 21st century. Furthermore, the objectives of regional development are to create quality jobs to a greater extent than at present and to establish them deliberately in remote regions in this country. A few points back we talked about migrant workers, Slovenian citizens who have to work across the border because they don't get jobs here. Precisely some prudent management of public companies could make sure that no one in this country needs to go with a belly for bread across the border, but that they can get a job here at home that is written on the skin for which they are trained and paid for. After all, there are labour rights and some wealth of employees in companies that must be pursued by public property. How do you achieve these goals? Yes, in a way that simply squanders some management vertical in these companies according to some corporate logic, certainly not. In Levica, we advocate the opposite; our practice is democracy in companies, so labour management must have its voice in these companies. After all, companies are the fruit of the works of those who create them and who depend on them for their lives. But democracy is not on the agenda of the government of Janez Janša in companies, let alone in the country. It is not that the government of Janez Janša deals with how to bring democracy to businesses if it is already driven out of the country in its entirety. It does the opposite, I'll point to the case of Blue Insurance. The Blue Insurance Company is guarding over 320 thousand insurers, managing a billion 300 million euro of assets, but this property is secured against speculative transactions in a way that half of the representatives of these insurers sit in the Blue Insurance Supervisory Authority. With the demographic fund and the transfer of assets to the demographic fund, this insurer and the interests of public servants will simply be shot down, bypassed, the law which provides for this will be abolished. Any supervision and democracy, a black minimum democracy that can be a factor in the participation of insurers in the supervisory body of the Blue Insurance Office, we see – this will be a matter of the past. And labour management is guaranteed before companies are exhausted and production is transferred abroad. It is also a guarantee that they are lagging behind and sneezing for businesses in other countries. Why? Since the jobs of these employees involved in management depend on the company's well-being. They are therefore the most vitally interested – not to exhaust companies, as is the case of the management caste too often, but to make these companies work well, to develop, to be solid wages, to avoid their standards being strained to disability and so on. After all, they are also companies that live in environments where people who work in them live. Therefore, employees are also interested in transforming businesses in a green direction, to be sustainable in society, to be sustainable in social life and to pursue an environmental function. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia says that private property is not only intended to pursue profits, as is practised practically everywhere, but must also include social function and also environmental function. Only labour control and labour management is one that, contrary to corporate management, can effectively ensure the pursuit of social objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has Luke the Moon, to be prepared by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I think almost all my predecessors started this discussion with pensions. It is said, not with the management of state property, but with this real promise, which is hidden in the demographic fund, and it is that they will be pensioners, present or future, for that reason. I think the first thing to do here is to make it clear that this is really one such political big lie. No pensioner will be better off, not today's or the future. If I can figure it out with the numbers. Last year, €170 million was budgeted for the profits of state-owned enterprises. That's the money that's about to go into the demographic fund. At the same time, if I'm not going to say anything stupid, this year there's going to be the purchase of dividends from state-owned enterprises in the budget of €170 million, so I'm talking about 2021. That's the money that's about to go into the demographic fund. At the same time, there is an envisaged hole in the 1.15 billion euro pension box this year, which means that we are still missing billions from these profits of state-owned enterprises to even cover a hole in the pension register. And what this government is doing now is that the money that has now gone into the budget and from there into the patch-up hole in the pension box will now go into the demographic fund, and from there 40 percent will go into the patch-up hole in the pension register. That's it. As a result, no pension will be higher for the euro, and vice versa. The question will be how to find in the budget the funds to patch up the investment moon that appears to us every year. The demographic fund has become some kind of slogan in our country, which we like to mention practically from all political parties. Especially because it represents some hope. When someone says the demographic fund, it is the hope that there will be no higher contributions to pensions, but there will be higher pensions. And then it's through somewhere in this hope this ray from Norway, but it also needs to come out very quickly. In Norway, first of all: this is the oil-rich society and even one of the richest societies in the world. And there they have two funds; they have a state pension fund of €850 billion, which is said to be about a hundred times ours, and they have an oil fund, which includes thousands of €70 billion. So, together, they have about 200 or 250 times as much assets in these funds as we're going to have. If I make a comparison, if I sell the property and distribute it, every Norwegian in these funds has about EUR 400,000. Now calculate how much each Slovenian will have in the demographic fund – 100 times less, four thousand euros! And on such a property, putting any hope of a pension fund, present or future, is simply unrealistic and must be told to people. Today's pension will not be any higher because of this, but in 2025 it will be no higher than the Institute of Economic Research has pointed out, the hole in the pension fund will be 2.4 billion euros, but the demographic fund will be able to contribute one twelfth of this, that is 200 million euros. And by good indicators! So we forget about our pensions here. This means that there are two possibilities why this fund is actually being set up. The first is that the government will somehow say pianistically, here we are, and we have set up a demographic fund, and I hope that this lie will somehow survive, if, for that reason, you will one day have better pensions, but anyone who looks at the most basic numbers that I have said in two minutes will see that this is an empty argument. The second option we have said in the opposition that a referendum is necessary is that this is the case somewhere else, and this is the centralisation of the assets and the centralisation of the power that this government or, above all, the ruling party of the SDS would like. As Alenka Bratušek had previously shown in her discussion, this was also the concern of SMC, including NSI and Desus, until entering this government. Matthew Tonin, Monika Gregorčič and members of Desus warned of the danger of centralisation of property under political command. Just now that you're in the government, you don't have to worry about that anymore, which is worrying. For the last time, there was a show on RTV about how power affects the brain. Maybe it's worth looking at. Among other things, they found out when they had people write a story in an experiment, someone had to write a story in which he was powerless, and another one had to write a story in which he felt he had overcome someone and then draw the letter E on his forehead. They found that those who felt strong and drew from their perspective are said to have seen it in a mirror. Thus, we can understand why some of the world, since you have been in governmental ranks, has been mirrored by how you have seen it before. As it is said, I insist that the greatest concern in this demographic fund is that the largest government party has an easy tendency to centralise assets and consolidate its political power through this. There's a lot of evidence for this, the present and the past. Now we know that he is following some authoritarian models of government in Hungary. In the past, we know that there have been few cases where, in one way or another, they have tried to influence themselves by mixing with state property. For example, John Janša already sold Mercator famously in his first term in exchange for having an influence on Del’s editorial policy. We see the same patterns here. Why is the Slovenian Press Agency supposed to land in a demographic fund? What does an institution established to care for the fluctuation of news in a society, to establish a public sphere and to perform public service, what the hell does that institution have to do, or where is its mission to fill a pension fund? This is completely confused with any wisdom! The only reason why the Slovenian Press Agency is going into this demographic fund is that you have not been able to break it so far. I think that twice or three times she has had unlawfully frozen funds that the government is forced to pay, and she has already frozen them twice. So far, they have successfully resisted all attempts of mobbing, public bullying and government-type attacks on U.S. editorial policy, which simply does not want to stay away and does not want to become, as the Prime Minister would say, a fan of false news, but insists on loyalty to some ethical and journalistic standards. So why is he going to the demographic fund? Yes, so that through the demographic fund, this government can simply replace its supervisory board and cadaverize and set up editorial policies like someone in the government imagines! Is there any better reason why you're putting STA in there? If we talk about why this is being established, this can be a genuine litmus paper. Because in the ranks of a large party currently in power in the country, there are many hungry mouths, many people who would like to come to some positions that may have even come to the party with such ambitions, on the other hand, the great interest of the party's leadership in cadaverizing state companies, institutions and media with people who will accept this as a gift, such as the last time Vesna Wolf Year wrote that they would be grateful and therefore promised loyalty to this party and to this politician. Correct me if I'm wrong, but we're willing to go to a legislative referendum because I'm sure it's because we've been watching this movie for the third time. For the first time since 2004, for the second time around 2012, for the third time, for the most aggressive, today. I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is by Joseph Horvath [[…]] Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to the debate on Blue Insurance. I would like to point out that perhaps the insurance company is not the owner of the umbrella pension fund of public servants, but is only its management. The proposal for the Blue Insurance Act even provides that it is considered a strategic investment as long as it manages the covered pension fund. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, I should point out that in 2016 the Agency for Supervisory Transport had warned that the arrangements for the Supervisory Board of the Blue Insurance Office were derogating from the rules of the Company Act and the Insurance Act. According to AZNrIt is precisely such an arrangement that restricts the Republic of Slovenia in the management of this investment, which is considered to be strategic and should therefore have as little management as possible. In short, I would like to point out that it is not the purpose of the Government, it is not the purpose of the Demographic Fund Act to limit the Blue Insurance Company, but merely to define it in a new way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is by Joseph Horvath, and Jani the Foreman is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Image asks me to thank my colleague Bratušek, who also dealt with New Slovenia in her discussion, which shows that she has us on the radar; and it is good that someone else spends a minute on you for their own promotion. Of course, its use of its own skin method is not prohibited, but it shows virtually everything about it. He accidentally fell on my desk, a June 2014 article, quoted as saying: “The government of Alenka Bratušek boasted of the successful privatisation of Helios, the first on the list of 15 companies to be privatized, but today he guarantees a dowry compensation with all his assets for the debts of his new owner, ” and so on. So, the consequences of privatisation are now – then – hiring its ministers, predicting criminal charges, and sending the Court of Auditors to state vendors. But be enough about this story. We have coordinated the text of the National Demographic Fund Act at the expert group level practically all summer and have reached an even greater part of the autumn and come to this text than we now have or have had it, more precisely, on the Committee on Finance. I regret that, at the time, the left part of the opposition has obstructed, indeed I regret that this is an extremely difficult content that would actually be good for Slovenian policy to achieve some, at least an approximate consensus, even though we know what the likelihood of consensus is in today's political situation. Some say that there was too little time to discuss that everything was going too fast, that the Economic and Social Council was not involved Pa! [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are closer to establishing a national demographic fund than ever before in the history of Slovenia. Why am I saying that? Allow only a few facts to refresh your memory. Eight years ago, in the National Assembly, we adopted the last pension reform, the so-called ZPIZ-2, which was part of the coalition. But it's not that important. It's important that this pension reform, PPIZ-2, has received a lot of support in the National Assembly. The law entered into force on 1 January 2013 and, very importantly, this law provides for the establishment of a demographic reserve fund from 2014. This is a legal provision: until 2014. Today we are in 2021. Thus, it has been well six years since the legal deadline for the establishment of the demographic reserve fund. Six years! Has anyone forbidden anyone in these six years to have any analysis, discussion, round tables and so on? In fact, since December 2012, we have known that we will once establish a demographic fund, and since then, at least we in New Slovenia have thought about it, indeed, we have not had any final concept, because this is always a matter of coalition. And if we have such an electoral system and coalition governments, it is perfectly normal that your political agenda, the political agenda of the party you belong to, cannot be implemented 100 percent. We have entered into a coalition agreement to establish a national demographic fund. Look, we've lost six years, we've lost six good years, that's about 8 percent of the average life expectancy of Slovenia or Slovenia. Today I will not analyze because there would be no added value, why governments have not done so, whether they have been able or unable, it doesn't matter what happened to the coalitions, it really doesn't matter. However, it is important that we have lost 6 years, and that is why in the coalition contract in Chapter 2, which has the title Youth, family, pensions, social affairs, very high, in second place we have written down the establishment of the Slovenian demographic pension fund with its seat in Maribor – this is the title – in Maribor will be the seat of the demographic office. We in New Slovenia have the principle of pacta sunt servanda – or more domestically, and more understandablely: the word is true – and we have done our utmost to do this project. We have appointed the best experts in this field as an expert group, and today the law is on the table at the second reading in the National Assembly. I'm not saying all other concepts suck. That's not true! We have closely followed the same law or with almost the same purpose as our colleagues in the SD, met with them and so on, but we are different; in the end, the majority in the National Assembly decides. I'm not saying their concept sucks, I'll never say it. However, we also had one of the key questions, whether it is fair that all state investment for a while — if I may say so, at home — we freeze and accumulate the yields and then only after so many years, 20 years, then we start to channel them into the pension box. This is also a possible option, a possible solution. But it seemed unfair to us, because in some way we would say that this income of this fund would actually feel only for those generations that come for this generation that created this country. Are you going to say, because it doesn't matter the question, it can. But look, we have different views and I hope there is also one extremely high-quality debate below. What else is the problem in Slovenia? Someone earlier mentioned the so-called Lawmaker's Law. In a way, hand to heart, we have a problem in Slovenia that: for the first time, we have good managers, they are either good or maybe the best, I don't know, they work outside. A good manager, even one who will be responsible for managing capital of a good 8 billion, which, of course, is not a high number at world level if we look at how much Google is worth. But a good manager has to be paid well. It is no secret that the idea of New Slovenia was that somewhere in the world market, if I may say so, they would look for the best managers. Of course you'll say, yes, but that's not going to work, look at the DUMB, there were Swedes there, and I don't know who else, and they took the high wages, and they didn't do any good. I agree. Surely the Slovenian public, taxpayers would not or would not find it very difficult to accept that the administration of the National Demographic Fund would have salaries comparable to those of management structures operating similar funds in Europe or in the world. It is very difficult for us to justify that someone has, say, 400 or 500 000 euros to pay on an annual basis. I don't know if it's Slovenian foschi here now, but I'm not dealing with it, it's not a matter of law. As far as we are concerned, New Slovenia would define wage policy with some basis, and then with an expensive incentive work that would depend heavily on capital return – ROE from the financial dictionary. This would certainly be some motivation for both the administration and the supervisory council. As far as I am concerned, I am glad that within the coalition we have been able to agree that a representative of the opposition will sit in the supervisory council. I conclude the debate to define myself to the amendment, which, of course, I have co-signed, the amendment of the coalition. The debate is alive and will last until the vote. Of course, it will not continue to end because any law can be fixed at any time, optimized, improved. At the last minute, we have talked with coalition partners to make sure that those 10% dividends that were primarily directed at family policy – why family, probably everyone understands well, because this fund is for all generations – and that we also write scholarship policies there. If it is true that we have many people who cannot study, we would like to study, and because of their economic and social situation, they cannot study, then the state should provide scholarships. If we have educated people, these will have more opportunities to meet good jobs, good jobs also mean well-paid jobs and well-paid jobs also mean a higher contribution to the pension fund. That's why we thought it made sense. We had a lively debate — yesterday, today, the end of last week — and we were able to agree. And as long as we're talking and talking, it's okay, it's okay. Until we complain, it's okay. Of course, I agree with the predecessors and it is necessary to pour pure wine here for the pensioner, present and future. If anyone thinks that there will now be a return on capital or that dividends will be some corrective, significant adjustment to pensions – unfortunately, he is wrong. Maybe he'll just unload the budget for a nuance, because the numbers have to be put on the table and then we can see what's really waiting for us. And the numbers are real. One of these figures, for example, for last year's 2020 year, was the pension allowance paid about €5.8 billion, the poor €6 billion. These are gabarites, these are the dimensions of the pension register, and if we want to raise this mass, the mass of pensions paid, by 10 percent – I don't even hope to think about ten, I'd rather see by 2.3 percent, it would be more realistic – for 10 percent, then we need an additional 600 million. What must be the return on capital, or better, how much dividends must there be in order to increase the amount of funds paid for pensions? So 600 million is a fantastic number. It is true, however, that with uniform governance, a single concept can achieve some synergies, including rationalisation in business. And one more thing, and I am really concluding, the National Demographic Fund Act is only the first phase. If the law is adopted, the Government will have to make a proposal, a management strategy, whatever its name. The governance strategy will be very important because the National Assembly will provide guidance on how to manage this property. And one more thing, someone said, yes, what is family politics now and that this is undefined. Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 February 2018, it was 3 years ago that this National Assembly adopted a resolution on family policy for the period 2018 to 2028, which is addressed to all families a friendly society. Here, this resolution shows what family policy is. But we probably all know what scholarship policy means. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, we will, of course, support our amendment to Article 1 and, as a result, support the 38th Article and, of course, support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u130	Thank you very much. My colleague, who spoke, and apparently also a colleague who spoke a little back, obviously didn't understand what I said in my discussion. I did not quote some newspaper articles, but I quoted the position of the three parliamentary groups, which were given in the National Assembly on 21 May 2019. And I didn't say the concepts of marriage were 21. 5th and today's are the same. However, the point which speaks of the concentration of all assets in one place is the same. Less than a year ago, Desus strongly opposed it, less than a year ago SMC strongly opposed it and less than a year ago Nova Slovenija strongly opposed it. Those are the facts. If we use the words spoken, let us use the words that someone has really spoken, not some newspaper articles, but some extracts from what someone has written. If anyone has second thoughts, I can read again all these quotations relating to the concentration of state property in one place. So it is necessary to be honest; of course, first to yourself and then to your fellow Members and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u132	Vice President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! I must admit at this point that, in fact, I was encouraged to discuss the previous debate by my colleague Monica Gregorčič, but here at the outset let me respond immediately to the debate of my colleague, Jožef Horvat, and together we find that we do not have enough money for pensions. We've been figuring that out for years. Now explain to me who's on the right, where they'll find more money for extra scholarships and family policy, etc.? That's a simple question. The demographic fund is intended to co-finance pensions after 2041. Together we find that we are different in concepts, but together we find that there is no money. Someone answer me, the secretary of state or someone from New Slovenia. Answer me where we can find extra money for scholarships. It's simple. If I don't get an answer, then I'll call back, because we've got four and a half hours left, and I'll ask you again to explain it to me and make sure it's a good concept. It is also common to us that everyone on the left to the right is aware that this law is very important and should probably be adopted in the past government, in which we have also been involved by the Social Democrats – that they will not immediately be seen from the right, that we have not accepted it. It's true. We didn't make it. True, we did not run any of these governments. For example, one was led by a SMC client who had 36 — watch out! – Members. In the history of parliamentaryism, no other party has had so many Members and we could get something else through the National Assembly, not only the demographic fund, but also in that government we have been involved by the Social Democrats, and together we have failed not to receive the obvious. Then I listened to my colleague Gregorčič speak of a broader consensus. If there's anything I don't like about this House, it's swindling. Some Members are often moved or moved — in any way. When we had our hearing on the home Committee on Finance, in the opposition we proposed a public presentation of the opinions - - and what did you do? You hit and voted against it, and you call it a broader political consensus. We do not reach a broader political consensus, let alone a social consensus! You've also ruled out essentially all the stakeholders who should be involved in such a marriage. My colleague Horvato and I were once on the RTV show with Mr Pirkovic, and we agreed that we really need a consensus in the National Assembly on such a law, which is important, is even more important for my generation and generation coming after me; more than most of you who are here are older than me. This law means that we will be safer in paying pensions to those who retire after 2041. There is no fear of covert privatisation – I do not accuse you of wanting to privatize or not want to privatize, but there is one fact. The fact is that the right side of Parliament is much more favoured by politics than by the left. We probably have to agree with that. It is true that in recent times you have changed the rhetoric around public-private health because you yourself have noticed that you are leading the government and that private health has been kneeling and if it is not so good public health, the question of what would happen to the epidemic. Either way, we have problems inside the health department, which we're all guilty of, so it won't be meant to blame anyone else. As far as this covert privatisation is concerned. Mrs Gregorčič said that the public investment management strategy was valid and that this is what still decides to manage state-owned companies. True, it is also accepted by the National Assembly, but it was also a great distraction. She said it would expire, I don't know, this year or the second year. Yes, or together, we will adopt a new State Investment Management Strategy, which means that you have a comfortable majority and if you decide to sell these companies, you change the strategy, you vote, and this left side of the policy will have absolutely nothing to do with it. Based on the experience of the previous year, when the opposition does not listen to anything at all. That's why he's scared! Therefore, this fear is that it is a demographic fund for covert privatisation. I hope you understand that. I started by saying that the demographic fund is intended to pay pensions, and it is only and is intended for that purpose and not for other policies: not for family policy or for scholarship policy. Retirement payments. But you put all the rest into this law; and money is not anyway. And that's what worries me about this marriage! I am also concerned that, in fact, any of this half of Parliament is not being asked the answer to anything. Social Democrats, of course, oppose this idea of your demographic fund. We would really like to be in such an important marriage, and this is a really important law — a systematic, important law for several generations — to go into some political consensus. But unfortunately, at the outset, I realized that this political consensus was not unfortunately there. And of course we filed a request for a referendum! I know that citizens and citizens too very, very much do not like to hear the word of referendum in our country. Why? Because, above all, you, too, must be admitted, have repeatedly abused the referendum from that part of Parliament. Do you know what the referendum is about in Switzerland? In Switzerland, politics decides to go to a referendum on topics that are important for several generations, and then people attend this referendum as well. I would, but I may or may not, I don't know, but I'd like to ask the younger to pay particular attention to this marriage. Otherwise, I believe that you will vote in this National Assembly or vote against the Consultative Referendum and then the signing of the Legislative Referendum will begin. My generation and the generation coming after me, this marriage is very important. I know that the problem is that this group of citizens and citizens is also the most apathetic because it does not go to elections, does not go to referendums, but should be active in this law. I believe you are not taking this lightly, but this is a law in which citizens and citizens should decide whether they want it or not. But I am still convinced that this law could bring me consensus. We should just talk a little more and ignore a little less, but I believe that the final version of this law would be better. Of course, we do not support these forms of law and, of course, we will do everything to ensure that this law does not come into force, and we will also do everything possible for citizens and citizens to decide about it, not just a policy that can never be negotiated in Slovenia anyway. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. That's a good-bye to all of you! In particular, I thank my predecessor, who has just concluded the debate. And I'm only going to use a fraction, one sentence, or I'm going to continue what he started, and that's critical if I can say so, why we're only talking today about such an important law as the National Demographic Fund. In 2014-2018 it was true, you said nicely, 36 Members of the SMC. The coalition was composed of SD and Desus. However, in four years these three parties have failed, regardless of the number, the political will and the power to move in this direction. So much for this part. And if the principles are already the subject, it is only right that we are correct and also self - critical in our activities. I will then, in some way, touch on some of the debates that I hope from this place to say were politically very attractive, at the same time misleading or even inaccurate. But I'd rather touch my opening remarks. It has been said that, as far as this law is concerned, if adopted, it will use all democratic tools to prevent the implementation of this law. In this context, I also understand this proposal to withdraw the point of today's discussion by the motioners, who are mainly opposition parties, other than the Slovenian National Party. Everything's fine and fine. Legitimate. But my humble opinion is as follows. Such a proposal and such words I see and assess that it is the will of the signatories, the proposers of this, especially in the area of the management of state property, that nothing changes completely. Let them remain, as it is, especially those persons who were placed in the most responsible management and control places years ago or a year ago, simply be there, because they work well and forget about it and no one wants to talk about it publicly either in the National Assembly or on the National Committees, whether they are working in their own interest or acting in the interests of the groups or in the interests of the State. The most interesting thing about this case is this. If journalists, in this case we will say investigative journalists, find out what irregularities in the management of state property, they will immediately touch on the so-called professional concept. All documents are classified as business secrets, which means to the public, it is impossible for a policy to see whether business decisions are in the interests of the owner – in this case the State – or in the interest of those entrusted with management. From this context, I conclude these words as well as this proposal: everything is excellent in the area of governance of state ownership, we will do everything we can to ensure that there is no change. I myself take a firm stand – and I am sure that all those colleagues and colleagues who have ever been involved in economic activity, not in the public sector – have simply moved the development of each company and society. From this general point of view, I firmly believe that there has been an urgent need for a proposal of this law, which has been made by those who have examined and looked into the contents in detail, and I am also talking about the purpose of the law itself, that we still need certain changes in the governance of state property. If I continue in this context, in itself I have a very interesting question. The introduction of this law goes on -- and I can ask, literally here in my political debate, whether perhaps the opposition that is very obvious, as far as the content of this law is concerned, and in the debates so far, I must admit that there is very little content, more of that desire and the like, whether it is the so-called political prestige of political parties. I can say opposition and coalitions here. Why do I show political prestige? Especially because the fact is there's a lot of money here. There's a lot of work here. The common objective should be how those who, in one way or another, put themselves in such important places, in management or control functions, or whether the country has the greatest impact, both on the market and in any other way, as we know it in business circles. Of course, I understand that this political prestige is still important in the debates, because who has drafted the law, who will implement it, and who, if I may say so, will also propose the appointment of a management and control officer. However, I will not go into saying that, according to my assessment, the elements of this law are very well written to take into account those fundamental principles of corporate governance and is the separation of the manager and the supervision. And here too, the National Assembly, if I may say so, plays a key role in the appointment. But I will not now touch the opposition, the coalition, because political life, not only in Slovenia, is that in time things change here, once and for all. The fact is, I am firmly in the position that we simply need to be aware of and pour out those political parties that in the past have had the opportunity to settle this, we simply are not. Today, however, this law is practically before us. I myself firmly believe that any political option or coalition that prepares this kind of content has a slightly different view or vision of how this matter would be set up to be managed as best as possible. It is no secret that the parliamentary group, which is somewhat more to the left, if I may say so, looks at it and may be one of the most important principles of corporate governance to include the co-management of workers and the union and so on. Well, that's legitimate. The question is whether companies are now successful in the market if the management process is at the heart of such groups. For all of us, as little as we know the business of companies or companies that are public companies, we simply need to be aware or we do not want to be aware that management and supervision have practically three objectives: whether it works in their own interest, whether it works in the interests of the company they run, or whether it works in the interests of the owner. So far, poor practice in the management of state property in the Republic of Slovenia for decades, no matter who was in power, I can say and I am firmly in the position that it is very bad. For all the time it had been a priority in these decisions and management, in the end only if there was anything left remained for the owner, and this is the country. What I've missed all these years, since I've been in this national council, is that this area hasn't been dealt with primarily. In fact, the Institute of Responsible Owners. This is what is far from important in the private sector and also brings appropriate results. In these political debates, I hope to say, on this subject, that we do not want to talk about it, we do not want to hear it, and that the responsible owner does not somehow fall within this context of political debate. In fact, when there is a relatively strong dose of reflection in the political debate — this so - called left part. And it's legitimate not to be misunderstood. I must admit that I must return, as far as this proposal is concerned, to withdraw the point, that I have listened very much to all the applicants. I can say that I have been very looking forward to what initiatives the proposals will come from you signatories. Indeed, in my debate or in further activities – because I think they will definitely continue – as far as the management of state property is concerned, there are things or elements that might be good for them to be involved in one way or another. And here you're referring to serious findings. I'll just give you two. The first observation is the lowering of corporate governance standards. Not a single word has been made today by the debaters, at least by the signatories, if not by lowering what would have been done to raise standards, but in general, by actually implementing the fundamental importance of corporate governance; what we know as corporate governance of a successful society. We also know abroad that the country is 100 per cent owned by companies, but they are really using corporate governance approaches and there are no deviations. Here, I'd say I'd expect quite a few words. It also states: imprudent privatisation. As far as I am following this kind of issue, I must admit that this is a pure political falsehood expressed in these words, as it relates to the proposal, because we have, for several years, a very clear strategy for the management of state investment and part of this strategy is also included in this act with some elements. This sounds very good, especially useful in the political debate, but in substance, if I may say so legally, it does not drink water. The largest flower in this material, even fattening, is written, and “the taking over of complete control and the concentration of all ownership ” goes on. [[…]] But, honourable speakers, here I must admit that I am somehow disappointed and really expect some good substantive debate, because it is precisely the complete takeover of control and concentration of ownership that is one of the key competences and rights of the responsible owner. Here I see that the responsible owner is simply being used with words, but actually operating through state-owned companies, perhaps SDH, should be DUTB, let the Claims Management Company, and so on, work in its own way. And then, if I'm not talking about yesterday, I'm just talking about a time period when individual derogations are so strong that the public is also disgusted with such a way of managing, but it's a whole political hall, including on the parental committees that are responsible for this. I'll just give you two examples here. One is concrete, I don't think I'm going to be very wrong, the case of Ajdovščina society, which has also recently been reflected in the media, where, on the one hand, it was bragging about how much the state gained from the sale of this company, and so, a little bit over the finger, a few million – 3, 4 million – by selling parts of this company. Interesting. In these days, however, if we look a little bit at what kind of data these financial circles provide, the value of this company is already over 500 million. Where is this so-called management of Slovenian silver? It's like a lot of times said. Where is the responsible owner?He wants to react, sanction, in one way or another, with any compensation proceedings against those who allow such abuses and so on. But if I go back a little bit, but KLI Logatec was also, and because I am quite self-critical in these matters; yes, our group was also with us. But interestingly, isn't it, things go on and eventually a lot of words to bring about radical changes in this area, which is not and is not political will. If I'm still in this general debate somehow. I will point out a few more times, certainly, that I am surprised and very difficult to accept this debate, that there is somehow a lot of talk, and virtually no will to make a change. Even if I go to some extreme and say that this proposal, which should have been in the National Assembly many years ago, has only just now come to it, simply if it turns out that it is not going in the direction it really wants, and they are all of us full of corporate governance, it is perfectly logical that it can in any way receive any correction. But what I have to admit is that I am a great advocate of this marriage, but above all, there are two matters. I believe that many of these present or absent persons have a completely different view of this principle of government property management, silver, gold, whatever. Here I will also touch my colleague Bratušek, who somehow commented that in 2019 there was some position of coalition members, such as partners, besides the SDS, that the position is changing. I can speak and my debate is only on my behalf and not on behalf of the Group of Members. The fact is that from 2014, when I joined this National Assembly, and until 2018, I was a great advocate in my parliamentary group to centralise the full management of state property. My experience and behaviour in this area, as far as I have had the opportunity to cooperate, are that it cannot be dispersed, because there are literally major abuses, especially the possibility of these abuses, in the event of greater dispersion. The more you concentrate on certain things, the more likely it is that in the end there is a better business success or result. And if it touches the economy from political life, just look at how the holding companies operate or any companies under the Company Act and why some form of centralisation, management and management is implemented. When she commented and touched the SMC, I must admit that it was wrong, because we were not all in the SMC. I can say that I am personally very pleased today that this proposal has one of the key points of centralisation. And by doing so, I am unwittingly referring to another important point of this law. If there is a decision to centralise the management of such a large — on the one hand — of assets, on the other hand, as well as of capital-intensive deposits or deposits, it is entirely understandable that you can literally start implementing the approaches and principles of corporate governance in the right substantive sense. I'm going to give a comparison of a successful company again, and I'm not going to talk about private. I will also talk about state-owned companies, which are few in Slovenia, but let's see what's abroad, even in the so-called German system, which we know is also our legal order of copying the German legal system. But the weaknesses that we have in the Republic of Slovenia are mainly due to the fact that laws or individual areas that are completely regulated abroad are not fully prescribed, but we have just so-called a little legal voids so that there can be some abuses, including management and control – let's say – of societies. As I mentioned. There have been some discussions, and it is very difficult for a person to agree to this, so in my debate I will not be named, but I will just say what I do not agree with some debate. The considerations were that stakeholders were not taken into account, and one of the key issues with these stakeholders is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and Integrity. Look, with the amendments, I literally cannot help but if this part of the opposition, which is also a signatory, is not to be addressed today, the real political parties that proposed the withdrawal of the point were not present at the first general hearing because you obstructed. [[…]] The fact is, amendments to the KPK have been adopted. This means that this debate or the arguments in this case do not hold. One of the key issues is that there is corruption in state-owned companies, there is, there is a lot of us that gets a little blurry and sometimes we don't want to talk about it, but there is and it needs to be reduced in one way or another. To talk and say corruption is nothing in the Republic of Slovenia – I would like it very much, but I am firmly on the ground and I hope to say that this mission is almost impossible, at least in a few years or decades. The next thing that was said was that the country lost all its assets overnight. This is simply not true, for all these years the state has managed its assets in a legitimate way, if I speak, SDH, and DUTB would list something else, especially in the way that the role here is very clearly laid out, what is every time an executive branch of power and some jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power. That sounds nice, that sounds good, that's some kind of political statement, but that's not true. Next. The fund does not support – I am talking about the demographic fund – the long-term sustainability of assets. I also have to say that this sentence is not true, because those who have read this law in a little more detail have been able to see that part of this property is included under the so-called institute, the accumulation of the property of the national demographic fund itself. What still matters in this matter is that it is permanent. Permanently, this means that part of the property is retained in the management of the property itself for its capital power. Of course, there can be an immediate political debate here, whether management of so-called amortisation and similar will be carried out in maximum form, as far as possible, whether today's assumptions, which are in the air, because we do not know how the market will work in 10, 15, 20 years from now, how all these parameters will be implemented, will really happen, what we all want and expect. However, this assumption is legally built in the expectation that from what it is so far — this kind of business, if I can say so financially, if I am very professional, I say, in the image of a financial conglomerate which is not allowed here in this case — it can reasonably be expected that the state will have something of it and that it will be successful. Now is the opportunity for me to tell my fellow Members in the Levica Group – sometimes a person to hold back and so on – at least from some of the members of your parliamentary group or its parliamentary groups, it is often said that companies work for profit, workers, trade unions, neglect and the like. Here too, it is very clear once and loudly that no successful company is successful if it does not have well-employed workers. I think we're all very aware of that. But neglecting the essential elements of the business, or any way of doing so, is obviously a political debate that sometimes obscures the essence. What was said? It was also said in this context that state-owned companies should only operate with profits, workers and the like. The management system certainly has different forms. Whether an association or a company decides to have co-management, to have an active union, and there are many factors that influence it, but the dominant influence on how it will achieve business results is on the part of the management of companies. I am inclined in some form to establish such cooperation, but not at all costs and not in every environment. When there was a speech: profit, profit. Look, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not just talk about the Company Act, about every company regardless of property, regardless of the form of state regulation, the rule that the company must operate positively, or if I simply say so, with a positive zero. It's ideal to do business with profits, and I'm not going to talk about it. Positively, it is a minimum that such a company exists on the market by its service, otherwise it must go to bankruptcy or forcible settlement. That's exactly what I'm trying to say is that I think there's a lot of potential on this right now, and it's just the workers co-managing, a little unfair to all the segments in the governance processes. I'm afraid I have to finish. But I conclude that I am glad that this proposal is before us. I wanted this to happen in 2014 alone. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Before I give the word forward, I would like to ask you to concentrate on the content of Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. We have held a general debate on this law in December and there is no need to repeat all these stories about the content of the law and, as we see, much broader. Procedural first, Mr Möderndorfer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u136	Dear Vice President! I would agree with you if that were said at the beginning of this point. In the middle of the point, to change the rules of the game, when a good part of the debaters have already held such a debate, I feel a little unfair to everyone else. Indeed, you know, if we want to tell citizens that we are all the same before the law, which is Article 14 of the Constitution, then let us at least be the same Members of the Rules of Procedure. That's why these things are reported at the beginning of the point, not in the middle of the point. As you Vice-Presidents are changing, of course, this is not a matter for us Members to discuss in this debate. That's all I wanted from the point of view of procedure. But I understand your intent on what you're trying to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u137	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I think that the chairman initially read that the general debate is not possible, because it was already held at the 53rd meeting, as stated in the scenario, and that he also read that it is going to the debate on articles and amendments tabled, not to the debate on the law. Sonibo the Prince has asked for a replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. In the debate, my colleague Verbič would only respond to one question. Otherwise, I disagreed with some of them, but this is his statement that concerns about some wild privatisation are over, as we have, last but not least, a capital investment management strategy. It is true that in 2015 we adopted a capital investment management strategy in this country, setting out, among other things, some minimum shares of ownership in individual capital investments. According to their classification, these are strategic, important portfolios, not to mention. At present, the ownership share of the country in these strategic stakes should not fall below 50% and one vote; at the relevant level, I think, at 25%. But what the colleague has left out is that this bill also foresees the creation of a new strategy and management objectives, so it is necessary to ensure that there are no new privatisation attempts – which we are, I will explain later in the amendment concerning this, but this is simply not true. There is a new strategy to be taken into account, especially since the government proposal foresees the use of funds from the fund to finance current spending, and this fund will, however, be subject to some privatisation aspirations and pressures to cash in expected returns. That is why, as I said, we added an amendment to Article 16 later. But what I said, it's not true. A new strategy will be drawn up, we do not know what the chances of corruption or wild privatisation will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In this case, it was not a misunderstanding of your debate, but it was your additional debate in this work. I suggest we move on. If possible, consider what I said earlier. Igor Peček has the word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll take it into account. I'll be rational. The establishment of an additional fund and thus the provision of inflows to relieve the long-term pension fund, which will be under severe financial pressure for some time, is necessary. We're the only ones in this. We are also alone in that this will not be enough to fill the gap between expenditure and income in the pension register. But the question of how to ensure the sustainability of resources to finance the rights of compulsory pension and disability insurance is on the ground. Well, we're different here. After all, we have been reminded of the fact that I mentioned in the introduction for some time by both the European Commission and other international organisations. It is also true that the Slovenian pension system operates on a hand-to-mouth basis, as the contributions paid for pension security do not provide sufficient funds to pay pensions. The proposal that we are considering today in the LMŠ Group is seen more than an attempt to concentrate or transfer ownership and consequently also to manage most of the country's capital investments in the national fund, which is expected to co-finance the pension fund in the long term. But the fact is, he's not gonna be out of this pension bonus because he can't be. How can we guarantee a bonus only by moving one thing from part to part, talking or comforting ourselves by centralizing or talking about central corporate governance? I think corporate governance is quite different, but I have worked in the economy for almost 30 years in an international company, but here I do not see the mode of how to manage companies with such different activities, working on different market principles and working with different business objectives and ambitions. Putting each other on the other side doesn't work. I'm afraid not from one pocket to the other. I'm a simple man, but if we just move the plate from one part of the table to the other, it won't be fuller. However, we have mentioned a number of issues that are very important for our future or for the future of our country. One of these issues is how this will affect the status of the Republic of Slovenia, even in the financial markets, or how creditors, from which we will in the past also be borrowing money in the future, will see that, despite all the transfer to something that will still be owned by the Republic of Slovenia, but the fact is that the state as such will no longer have its own assets. As far as the expected returns are concerned. Of course there are possible improvements, they always are, although SDH already assures us that management is optimal. We know that it is largely different or that we view different companies in this cluster differently. However, the expectations expressed with regard to the returns in this proposal are significantly higher than what we are achieving today. The Fund is expected to manage various investments. I personally believe that it should manage only such investments arising from so-called portfolio investments and pursue at least three basic objectives. The first is definitely security, the second is profitability, and the third is flexibility. The latter in some way allows us to liquidate the fund, which is very necessary, because the funds from these funds or from this fund are actually expected from this asset when we need them, and that is also the point. Investments cannot be tied in the long term if we need an inflow, part of the investment must be such as to ensure the flexibility of management or liquidity. I also believe that, as such, the fund should be independent and sovereign, but with the proposed management method, it will nevertheless be limited to the existing management strategy. I also believe that he should be politically independent and also autonomous in this respect, as far as governance is concerned, but unfortunately, here too, in the role of the Assembly, I do not care at this time which government, when. And also by appointing the members of the Governing Council as the National Assembly — we know what certain appointments and confirmations unfortunately look like in these seats too. In the LMŠ Group, we are united in terms of the overall pension reform that is needed, and we believe that the task of the fund or fund that would be part of this reform would also be the accumulation of capital for the time when the gaps in the pension fund would not be possible to hide from the budget. I can still do it today. From this point of view, I may find the State Secretary's interpretation even meaningful. Let's get something, and you make sure you find something else. It's a model that works. But the fact is that it is precisely because of demographic trends that will follow in the future that I believe that this fund or this asset should be the kind of asset that this asset succeeds and can provide that is intended only and solely for the financing of pensions. I'll take it so I won't be too long. As I said, part of pension reform must be the establishment of a fund, whether we call it demographic or pension demographic, it doesn't matter. It must be part of the answer to the future that will happen to us or is already happening to us, as far as the shortage of funds in the pension box is concerned. I am absolutely convinced that the investments to be managed must be exclusively portfolio investments. I have also given myself some training and little myself, but I have not found in any part of countries with similar funds to manage this fund with anything other than portfolio investments. If I was wrong here, I'd be glad if you fixed me, but I'm pretty sure I'm right. In the end, just the last. As regards the KPK's comments, not all amendments have been taken into account or all comments have not been taken into account in the amendments adopted. Last time we heard comments from stakeholders, the Supervisors' Association, the social partners on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, that there was no need for dialogue at the stage of the adoption of this law. I am convinced that this dialogue should involve the professional public, that social partners should participate and that the proposal most likely to be adopted in the National Assembly should be a consensus at a broader national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u142	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! This persistent repetition of the government and the Ministry of Finance in the public to ensure that the demographic fund, through your model, ensures the lasting and long-term sustainability of pensions, simply cannot be maintained. I'm an analyst myself in my life, and it encouraged me to go over certain things. First of all, this kind of fund you set up and you don't have any basic capital, except for the companies you transfer in, it's not yet that guarantee. That is to say, this fund must be filled with a few years to get some mass of financial resources, which is intended to then cover pensions during the crisis period, as of course now and after 2008. Why? We know that we are already covering this pension gap from the budget, and at the time of the crisis we know that already a billion 600 of the budget has gone to pensions. In the best years, 2018, 2019, it barely fell below a billion, about billions I'm talking about, sorry. That's just the fact that he's just talking about not being able to. You say: “With one larger one, we would have reached a maximum of 200 million a year.” He's bringing in one of the seniors. So where's the guarantee that these companies will just suddenly start carrying golden eggs? If I say so. That's impossible. Convince me – where is the analysis to ensure this? If we look at it this way. There are good 70 companies in this transfer list, but of these 70 companies there are barely a third of those that bring them. The other two-thirds, look, a good third is the companies that are in liquidation that are in bankruptcy. You are now, for example, involved in the company STA, which has no return anyway. And there, if you want to stop STA, you will have to give the workers a pension — from what? From these returns of the other companies they wear, if I illustrate it this way. You can't convince me that this demographic fund will be, in the way you suggested, a long-term solution to the sustainability of pensions. That's impossible. If we move on. As I said, there are not even those companies in these transfers – for example, I have reached where the woodworking industry is. Why? SiDG is in there with their forest that they bring. But look, in the past, if we turn back, 20,000 jobs in the woodworking industry have been lost. Do you know what this number is? Probably for the textile industry of the most lost jobs. The forest could be our natural wealth, but we don't know how to use it. One such basic problem: what is the difference now between the yield of SIDG and if the woodworking industry could return 10,000 jobs, they would be employed? What would be the contributions, then, what would be the inflows to the Treasury? I wonder how you imagined that under the given circumstances the fund would successfully cover the gaps in pensions in the budget. In addition to your commitment to building a home for the elderly, even now in this amendment, as we see, scholarship policy, there are also companies where we should also finance the construction of roads, that is, transport infrastructure, as has already been said and so on, that should be our fund for this area. So all of a sudden, it's possible to solve everything. On the other hand, there is even a shortage in the budget of what we have just endured here. We do know, however, that the crisis, once again, that a strong billion will be needed from the budget for pensions, is a gap. On the other hand, I looked at a study last autumn in the National Assembly in the Research and Documentation Sector, where seven countries were working. Seven countries: USA, France, Australia, Japan, Norway, Poland and Ireland. There are countries with more than 50 years of this fund and there are certain experiences, and there are also countries that have set up these funds in this millennium. I have carefully studied everything and I do not see the real comparison of this model that you have prepared to make it the right solution. I'm sorry, I really don't. Because everyone who started had some initial capital, something solid, tangible, or on oil, on natural wealth, ore, wood, concessions, these are the real foundations. This is said by some fund from the past periods of privatisation of some really strong companies or budget surpluses, where Ireland is one, we know how successful their growth has been in the last good 20 years since GDP, that it is practically another in Europe. Then you've got something to do with these surpluses. This is also possible in the case of Slovenia in 2014-2019, this growth, which then ensured this. We were probably also late because we had not thought at the time that 2019, instead of returning 620 million debt to Slovenia, might have been allocated to such a fund. Maybe. Also the findings of the KPK. Is there an institution on the left that does not take this into account? This is a professional institution, to which you have relied a lot during your opposition. It points out very clearly that it does not follow the principles of due diligence, that by recasting the SDH of certain important provisions of the SDH Act, it does not take into account that they are omitted, the suspension of the regulation of particular areas in many areas is a lot of these comments. The Council of State also warns and is skeptical of this proposal. I don't know if this government really doesn't take into account anything that should be taken into account. I really wonder on the whole line why such ignorance is and in fact you are gravely violating the administrative rules on state property in this area. Finally, I'm trying to tell you where I see this solution. Above all, this is evident in the growth of added value, productivity, to increase jobs, to reduce unemployment, as we said earlier, was evidence 2014-2019, how we could then even stop Zujf and return to people, how we could then also achieve the surplus of the budget, how we could repay part of the debt. And it would probably follow that such a fund be set up and out of excess. It's that healthy road. Young people should be placed on the market as soon as possible. This, though, has already been said, and this is the right path we see. The raising of the age of life, of course, also requires the extension of employment, which European countries have been doing for decades. That's the normal way. And even, I will say, this prevents you from doing what you are now doing, forcing people to retire and further interfering with the fact that financial resources must then continue to increase in this area. I'd like to warn you about the flight of capital. The developed countries that invest in developing countries are exploiting us. We know that by making use of our cheap labour, profits should be so much higher, there should be so much duty, and we encourage them, and we give great subsidies. This also reduces the budget of Slovenia and also for pensions. If only our wages were higher. Thank God we've at least raised the minimum wage to do something about it. In the end, the point. Young people are a key part of society and represent a pillar of development and the future of the country. We must do everything we can to enable young people to stay at home, to open jobs with higher added value, to hire them at home, to attract them. Accordingly, I will mention the national plan or European Fund for Recovery and Resistance, where we are now facing a good 5 billion, in addition to the rest. If we know how to invest these resources in areas where we can keep young people — young people who are getting older in society — that is essential. And what do developed countries do now? They're stealing these young people from us to help themselves with this. We have to put our strength here, not to overlay, as a colleague said before, a plate with the same contents from one table to another, because we will not be more satisfied, impossible. The green policy required by the recovery funds, digitisation, the professions of the future resulting from this, these are mainly young people. It is said that everything must be based on young people in order to achieve this, and then it is a natural path so that we can achieve better development of Slovenia. We need to keep young people from Slovenia to developed countries, which thus save their demographic picture and increase GDP at the expense of us developing countries. It's the right way, we should just talk about it, not the right way. As I said, in this analysis or in this proposal, I see no added value. I really don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Your Honor! The question is what will we come to in the country by setting up a proposed national demographic fund in the face of problems that we are aware are very large. In particular, if we look first, as has already been exposed several times today, pensions in Slovenia are too low for a decent life. The number of pensioners is increasing, and at the same time the lack of funds required by the State to finance pensions, the pension system is increasing. More than a billion, a billion 150 has been found, it is now given annually, at this point in time, to the fact that at this level, as I described earlier – not too rich for people as they feel – the Slovenian pension system works. This money, this fund needs to be reinforced, enriched in the future, so that pensions can also be provided to a large number of people, including decent pensions. What numbers are now coming out says that if this national demographic fund is set up, pensioners will virtually have no problem solved or the income of the pension fund will be negligible. That's the problem we need to talk about today. While we will get one centralised management of the country's capital investments, as I said, serious contributions from his side will not be made by the fund into the pension system. In particular, if we look at this number, which many of you have already mentioned, which comes from the Institute of Economic Research's survey, that in 2040 the fund will contribute 200 million to pensions and the country's pension deficit will be 2.4 billion. This will need to be provided from one other source, probably from the budget. The budget, which in the majority part is filled with taxes and, clearly, is still still in the form of dividends from capital investments held by the State in various areas. In the solution to the centralisation of the matter and in some sense to the policy of the management and control of the national demographic fund, the key role of the Assembly of the Fund is that of the Government – that is, the existing government, whatever it is at this point – or that the Governing Fund of the Council, in which the four members are appointed by the Government, and the seven National Assembly, where the majority will decide again, is a typical way of political direction and not the independent functioning of the national demographic fund. This is certainly not good, and this is a matter that will take place on short notice. In the event of accidental adoption and confirmation of the current form of the national demographic fund, it will certainly not live long. In particular, this is an important national matter, because we are talking about state property, it is estimated at 8.6 billion, which has been created by employed people who will – some are already in huge work and many will later – retire and will have financial support for life in the third lifetime. In particular, if we look at the exclusion from all these management structures of the Fund in the future of the co-operated workers, this is absolutely contradicted by the logic of the functioning of our system, especially after one democratic salary, when democracy must also be introduced at the economic level in co-management of workers. It was very embarrassing to say this when we had the Commission to oversee public finances, virtually all trade unions, that all trade unions had said that the case did not involve the creation and creation of this document on the national demographic fund, that the Economic and Social Council had not been involved in the case, that a lot of critical comments had been made by the anti-corruption commission, the Court of Auditors and, last but not least, by the structures of pension organisations, especially if you had listened to the Director of the Property Fund of Zpiz. For the thing we are talking about today, the requirement to adopt on the basis of a national agreement, the national consensus, has been confirmed on several sides. I would like to say that this has not been ensured and has not yet been met with this condition and this requirement. All those invited to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, including opposition parties, announced that a consultation referendum would be launched if no consensus was reached. All I want to say is this. It has been pointed out that the proposal of the National Demographic Fund is subject to so many laws in different areas that, in the event of a request for its constitutional assessment, this matter will fall to the Constitutional Court. This is a very serious matter. I would like to say that, when a coalition agreement was concluded before this government, which was also supported in part by the Left, it was also supported by Members and Members or the Desus Group and the Modern Centre Party, it was agreed that an important part of the funds should be obtained by correcting the wrong measure of 1996 when employers' contributions to workers for half. At that time, a hole began to emerge in the provision of pension funds in Slovenia, which is one billion and more euros. If these measures were to be implemented, these alternative solutions, particularly highlighted in Levica, would have to be raised four times by 0.8 euros to provide adequate financial resources for the normal functioning and decent functioning of the pension system. This would bring EUR 400 million by 2025. We say, however, that in 2040, if the fund is to function, as planned now, it will bring 200 million euros. I'd like to say this at the same time. On the other hand, it is also necessary to solve the problem that around 750 000 employees in legal persons in Slovenia pay on average for pensions and 450 euros for pension insurance and the next 250 000 for other forms of employment and insurance on average less than half. In particular, this is about the espionage contributions. According to the Ministry of Finance, over 20% of espies earn more than €40 000 annually. I must say that employees with such salaries, as I have just said, pay €40 000 at monthly level 730 contributions, while espouses with such salaries pay minimum contributions of €400. It is therefore necessary to correct this and, in the context of the debate on the sustainability of the pension system and the cash flow, it is necessary to consider reforming the payment of the contributions of the espies. However, to make a significant increase in the contributions of espouses with higher incomes and, of course, to make sure that contributions to espouses with the lowest do not rise. Only such two measures would have a completely different and positive effect and effect on the pension register in Slovenia. What is now proposed by this national demographic fund means, on the one hand, the disqualification of citizens, on the other hand, the ownership of a state-owned property management of a large amount of 8.6 billion, by political parties and the dissolution of the pension system if it is not properly addressed. As a result, personally, like my client, Levi, I will certainly not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u145	Thank you very much. He asked for the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of Mag. Peter Ješovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Vice President. More than once, it has been mentioned that the Government has not carried out social dialogue. Once again, I must say that the President of the Government has presented this law himself, that the Minister of Finance, in cooperation with our services, has moved this law to the plenary session of the Economic and Social Council, that a colleague sitting behind me has presented the calculations in the Economic and Social Council. I must say that the Economic and Social Council, at its plenary session itself, has laid down the rules for us to talk on the basis of the articles. We carried out five negotiating groups, the first employees, so the unions didn't participate at all, the fourth said a union representative, which is on the record that they're not actually negotiating with us, but they're just looking for arguments for a referendum. And on the fifth, they told us they weren't going to talk to us about articles, they were going to talk to us about concepts. How, though, should we talk about concepts if we put a marriage that has one concept into the system and had to talk about it? Okay, I wouldn't be making any more mistakes, but this repetition, the constant repetition that the government hasn't talked to anyone, it just doesn't stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Today, quite a bit has been said, and I think that at one point everyone here on both the left and the right half of the Assembly Hall agrees that Slovenia urgently needs a demographic fund. In fact, the pension box is more empty from year to year, and if we go at this rate forward, it will, simply put, store. The key problem was created 20 years ago when employers were halved in paying their pension contributions, but now, so many years later, crying about it makes no sense. In any case, it would also make sense to consider that this matter is finally being corrected. If I go back to the demographic fund. In any case, it would be right, no matter what else, for some of this state property, to be nobled in 20 or more years, but in some way also to be added to the pension fund. We Social Democrats have tabled in the procedure of the National Assembly a few months ago a bill on the National Demographic Fund, which has also been very widely coordinated and has indeed served this purpose. In fact, the purpose of this law was not to transfer ownership to a new association for state property, but all of this property is noble and, after 20 and more years, it begins to be used for the payment of pensions. As it is said, this law was also consistent with the social partners, but unfortunately it did not achieve sufficient support in the National Assembly, the government majority said, but the coalition of our proposal did not support it. Today we have a new proposal tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The difference between this proposal and ours is that our proposal actually ensured that the property was noble and accumulated. After 20 years, I would bring twice the return on the pension fund as proposed by the Government. In this place, as many other colleagues from the opposition and civil society, I rightly wonder what the real purpose of this government law is. We all agree here that there is no money for pensions and it will be even less, and we all say at the principal level that it is necessary to establish a demographic fund so that in 20 years or more we can have some additional resources, or not enough, but additional funds to provide funds for pensions or pension funds. The marriage, the colleagues and colleagues you filed, is something else entirely. It's actually hard to talk about the demographic fund at all. While the law transfers the entire state property, which has been run corporately, comparable to other European countries, it is said that it has also been dispersed, the Court of Justice, the DUTB, the real estate fund, the pension fund and so on, everything is now concentrated, these 8 and more billion, into one new society. According to this demographic fund, it will be managed centrally. However, money will not be collected in 20 or more years, but it will be spent on family politics, caring for the elderly, and so on. I am not saying that these things are not necessarily necessary, but if we find together that the pension money is not enough, and if the purpose of this law or fund was to provide pension funds in 20 and more years, I absolutely do not understand what the Government wants with it, or rightly so far, I am asking a serious question and worrying that the sole purpose of the establishment of this fund is the ownership of the government of Janez Janša, which has not yet been able to absorb. Colleagues and colleagues, as an interesting thing. The Slovenian Press Agency also falls into this demographic fund. The national press agency, which has been a thorn in the fifth government since the beginning of the government of Janez Janša, and is trying to prevent it in every way and is partially successful, but not entirely – do you know what will happen when it becomes part of the demographic fund? If not otherwise, the Government will be given the opportunity to replace the entire administration or supervisory board of this agency at the same time. These are questions not only for us Members, but for the entire Slovenian public. It would be good to have clear answers to these questions. The concern here is justified in view of the fact that today we have been informed from the media that the Government has simply begun to send to those who disagree with it and who have had doubts about not being able to go to school, penalties for this, fines for disagreement with the Government. I think that if there is no majority in this national council to stop this meaningless law, this law will stop the Slovenian people at the referendum. The democratic opposition will, or first, put forward a proposal for a consultative referendum. If this doesn't go through, we'll collect signatures for the subsequent legislative referendum. I am confident that the people will be absolutely on the side of public interest in the interests of the ruling regime of John Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The last one in this circle gets the word mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u150	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One of the priorities of the current Janša government was the establishment of a demographic fund. That the establishment of a demographic fund is a priority of the coalition's contract is likely to be a number of reasons. This coalition, this government, is aware of the problem facing Slovenia, the pension fund and demographic problems. On the other hand, the Government is aware that ZPIZ-2 has already foreseen the establishment of a demographic fund in December 2012 within two years. Between 2014 and 2021, a number of governments came together. Those of you who are the loudest today have had scissors and linen in your hands in all these years. In all these years, despite the fact that the demographic picture in Slovenia has told us that something needs to be done for the current and future pensioners – even more – the marriage obligation has imposed on you, but – you have not been able to establish this demographic fund. You failed to establish it solely because of one thing, due to a different view of the management of state property within your coalition governments. There have been several attempts, but unfortunately you never made it. This government, the government of Janez Janša, has united here and decided that Slovenia needs a demographic fund and has also brought it to the National Assembly. The concept of the demographic fund is, in my opinion, correct. I am confident that the establishment of the demographic fund will relieve the budget and make the pension fund more stable and provide an additional resource. Never and never in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in this government have we advocated that the demographic fund will fully save the pension fund far from it. We're aware that we don't. We know what the demographic picture is like in Slovenia. I personally believe that Slovenia needs a pension reform in a relatively short time. Of course, the best lever for filling the pension register is new jobs and higher wages. I am sure that tax reform and labour reform are also necessary here, legislative. These would all be levers to make the pension cashiers extra full. I personally believe that the concept that we have on the table, and which also the Committee on Finance recently confirmed with 11 votes in favour and no votes against, is appropriate. The fact is that this law also provides for the management of state property from one city. I am convinced that the management of state property from one city brings more benefits than weaknesses. In the past, we have had more than one national asset manager and we have seen the results. I am convinced that the management of state property from one place means greater efficiency and greater transparency. I have expected this, and I have missed it, that in the debate that we have had in the first reading of this law on the home finance committee, and even in the last week at the Commission on Public Finance Control, we will have a more substantive discussion on how we will substantively talk about the mistakes that have been made in the past with regard to the management of state assets, and on how to identify good practices for the sale of state property and negative practices for the sale of state property. And that we will draw some conclusions from this and decide how to manage state property in the future in Slovenia. I am convinced that the concept drafted by this government – the government has coordinated it, as already mentioned by the Minister of Finance and, last but not least, by the Secretary of State today – has been coordinated with several stakeholders. The fact is that the composition of the Supervisory Board also makes it clear that this government is aware of the importance of wider decision-making in these matters, that the ZDUS has gained a seat in the supervisory board, that it has also received a seat in the supervisory board as a representative of a youth organisation. The fund's assets as well as the accumulation of the dividend, the accumulation of purchases from the sale of domestic investments that this fund will have is balanced, one part will be allocated to direct payments to the pension fund and one part will be left to the demographic fund. In the last month, we have listened to considerable direct attacks by the opposition on such a concept and on the National Demographic Fund Act. I'm sure as many lies and deceptions as we've heard from the opposition have not been heard in a long time. Respectable opposition, I'm certain of something. You are the most vocal in the sense that this National Demographic Fund Act will allow for the sale of state property and privatisation. Respected opposition, there is no talk of privatisation in this law on the national demographic fund, not in a single word, nor in a letter P. And you are attacking this law from all sides – the sale of state property, privatisation. The year 2012 is repeated. In 2012 the second Janševa government brought the Slovenian State Holding Act to the National Assembly and in the same way the opposition raised shouting and shouting. Vik and scream you started by collecting referendum signatures and shouting and shouting that it would be a sale of state property and for privatisation. In part, I can agree here with the debate held by my colleague Jani Prednik as a Member of the Social Democrats, namely that the Slovenian Democratic Party has always advocated privatisation. That's partly true. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always said that the country must in some way withdraw from state property in a transparent manner, in a prudent, gradual manner. However, colleague Prednik forgot one thing to say – that the main sale of state property took place just in the time of the governments of the Social Democrats. Just at the time of the rule of the Social Democrats, the biggest sale of state property took place. If we now return to 2012, 2013 when you started shouting and screaming about the creation of the Slovenian state holding company and then with the obvious that it is exclusively about privatisation and the sale of state property, I would like to repeat another matter. During the second Janša government, no state-owned company was sold by this government. Then came the government of Alenka Bratušek, the government of Mir Cerar, in which you participated, in all the governments of the Social Democrats. In these governments were sales: Helios, Aerodrome Ljubljana, Photona, Elan, Adria Technika, Adria Airways, Nova banka Maribor, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Žito, Cimos, Abanka. A bunch of state-owned enterprises, especially in the time of your governments, the governments in which you Social Democrats participated. Today you are trying to point all the arrows at this side of us, that it is only us who are selling state-owned companies, and it is only us who are for privatisation. Far from it. Facts say something else. The second biggest lie we can listen to from the opposition is that the country will be dissolved. No one's gonna clear anyone. In 1946, 1947, 1948, on this basis we are still paying the costs of denationalisation. Denationalisation was also one of the key issues why state-owned companies had to be sold. The Fund of the National Demographic Fund Act will still be owned by the Republic of Slovenia and there is no concern here that this fund will be privatised. I am sure that the establishment of this fund will make it possible to live better both for the current pensioners and, above all, for all future pensioners. I really don't understand all of your attacks, all of your deceptions about sales, privatisation and also about disqualification. I accept the fact that we have different views on governance, and so is the case. I will not now say that your management is not appropriate, but the National Assembly has rejected this proposal. The National Assembly has rejected this proposal of yours, but I am confident that the National Assembly will confirm our concept at the vote at the extraordinary session. Finally, it has already been confirmed by the Committee on Finance with 11 votes in favour, and not one vote against. That would be it for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I can see that again. Before initiating the procedure for discussion, I would like to ask you to read Article 1 of the law and the amendments tabled, from which the coalition slightly expands the purpose of spending. What you have invested in the opposition, however, substantially strengthens the content of the law and the assets involved. Now we listen to all the other things except the article and the amendments. I'm starting the application procedure. The first one gets the word Bojana Muršič. Here you go, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Vice-President mentioned that we can talk or look at Article 1 and the amendment to it that we are discussing today. This talks about the field of regulation, the purposes and the objectives of the law, which means that we can speak broadly. In the introduction, let me say that this government proposal for a demographic fund, according to my opinion, has remained only and only on behalf of it. Nor does this bill give any reason to believe that the current government will achieve one of the most important objectives of responsibility for the adoption of such a fund that will work in the good financial sustainability of an increasingly unstable pension system. From year to year, we find that the deficit of the Zpiz cash register is about a billion euros. Demographic trends are changing, and this pension register will become even more impoverished from year to year, and the budget of this treasury will become unsustainable. It is therefore important to adopt the demographic fund, of course, but not the one we have on the table today. The adoption of such a fund as should be adopted should ensure the financial sustainability of this unstable pension system. This government has approached this law with a rapid, free social, broader consensus. Why is there a need for this social, broader consensus? Because we need to be aware that we need to adopt such a fund that will allow future generations to receive stable funding for pensions. It would therefore be expected that there would be as wide a consensus as possible here, but in this law — no matter how many times we have heard them talking today — but the unions have made it clear — there was no consensus or discussion. Notwithstanding the way the government has adopted it has also set itself the goal of enabling future generations to receive stable funding for pensions, but it has subordinated this as a personal project to achieve the partisan objectives. One more time. This fund should be a fund to ensure a stable third source of pension funds during a critical period of 20 years and over, but this proposal is designed to exhaust current consumption and bring about a quest for privatisation. That is why this fund is not a demographic fund, and I can say that it is merely political looting, and not just that, it is a privatisation trap for what will be left of state property at all. If I also touch on the immediate spending that this government is presenting under this National Demographic Fund Act, it will have major financial implications for the pension fund, with the funds being too small to be able to effectively finance other matters such as homes for the elderly and also to finance an undefined family policy. Today, there was a debate on what this undefined family policy is, but I believe that for these two pillars, building a home for older people and family policy, there should be resources in the state budget, not in this demographic fund, because we need funds for our pensions in 20 years. This dispersion of funding will not be effective, absolutely not for the pension fund, nor for the construction of a home for the elderly, but even less for the family policy, which is not clearly defined in this bill. Even for the structures of state-owned enterprises, some of them strategic, there is a great danger that the fund will be charged at the expense of exhaustion and through the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. If I listen to this debate today, it is possible to see that the Government is not in the interest of the future of the generation, which we are also talking about today. If it were of interest, the opposition proposal, which we have already had in consideration to provide the pension fund with an additional €170 million, would be confirmed and Slovenia's assets would remain the key property of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I am aware that the demographic fund is not the solution to all the problems that we are talking about today, but any reckless decision in this area can have a major long-term impact on several social subsystems. Because it is such an important law, no one has a mandate to adopt such a law without consultation, cooperation, dialogue, even though the consequences are extremely great. I absolutely agree that this demographic fund should be adopted by now, and we have been talking about it for a long time. Comrade Pogačnik has laid down nicely that we were Social Democrats in governments and that we did not establish this demographic fund – yes, but on the basis of everything we were preparing there was no wider social consensus, so the matter stood. Since we have come so far, we could finally mature to care for our future. However, this law that we have on the table today is absolutely not going in the right direction, and it needs to be finalized, to talk to all stakeholders. Only when all the actors identify with him – including us Members – do I think that such a law should have as much support as possible, if not the constitutional majority – will we all believe that this law is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! This proposal from the demographic fund will only allow for the subordination, decommissioning and disposal of social property. I repeat, subordination, decommissioning and disposal of state property. In one moment, it will decommission the state and transfer state property to the company, or 100% of the state's property. This mode of management poses a great deal of risk. If we know that the country is now renting 60-year-old loans, that on the one hand it owes still unborn and non-existent generations – the state or government somehow represents that it is the trust of lenders, and I believe that it is only a sign that lenders do not trust that the Government could pay back its obligations in one timely time, and that these obligations extend to still unborn generations – it would also be right that this asset is available today to future generations, including those not yet born. This fund, this way, as the Government has done, does not guarantee this and does not pursue this objective. We must, if we want to preserve this property and if we want them to be able to accumulate assets within it in future pensions at least as sustainable as possible, into this fund, to provide additional resources that are not foreseen here, and to ensure that it does not finance any other things than pensions. We must ensure the future security and stability of public finances, especially pension funds. We will not do this in such a way as to ensure that the country, with only one move, is subjugating, decommissioning and decommissioning state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Because you said that it was necessary to say that I would support the amendment to Article 1, which says that in addition to family policy, the scholarship policy will also be covered by the bill before us. But let me get back to hearing that this is going to be a decommissioning, a sale of state property. I've been listening to this since 2012. Back then, it was just like today, perhaps even hotter because today’s fellow Members are not even in this room. But it was also said, “this is a sale”, when we established the Slovenian State Holding Company, “sale of Slovenian silver” was then said to be “sale of Slovenian companies”. However, then SDH was established, the government changed and look at the fraction, already colleague Marko Pogačnik said which companies have been sold since 2012 and 2013 respectively. Also, the food company Zito — where did the purchase go? Where did the purchase from Helios go? Was Helios really sold at a price? It says, I read in 2016 that Helios was sold for 200 million too little, at a lower price. Where did the purchases go? Where did Slovenia strategically go? What are the strategic projects, development projects of Slovenia? I haven't seen them myself in years, I've just heard about the sale, the sale of Slovenian property, the property of all taxpayers. And I am listening today to how everything is wrong because the law itself has committed itself to going part of the dividends, part of the dividends to be managed – better managed than ever before by a state company – also for family policy and scholarship policy. All of this covers the main objectives for which the Christian Democrats stand, and that is, of course, family policy. However, I think it is very important for the proposed law to also define which investments are strategic. Christian Democrats are, as has been the case so far, in the view that the state must carry out its tasks, which certainly do not include the conduct of entrepreneurial activities on the market. We still – as we have seen today – advocate the country's withdrawal from the economy and it is reasonable that the country retains most of its ownership in strategic companies in the field of transport, transport and logistics infrastructure and the electricity system. That's our silver.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me begin by making it clear that the demographic fund is a good idea and we need it, but not one like it before us, which is not even a demographic fund. The adoption of this law in the form submitted is opposed not only by the opposition but also by the whole profession and also by the OECD. Participants in the corporate governance conference organised by the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia assessed the government's proposal for a demographic fund law as inappropriate both substantively and in the light of corporate governance. That's why it should be withdrawn. They were the only participants. The draft law, which provides for the merger of all four state-owned investment managers under the roof of the demographic fund, is intended to provide pension funds in the coming years. Is that true? The undivided evaluation of the conference's section was – as we could see from today's debate both the opposition and some positions – that the Fund's objectives of a total of 8.6 billion funds will not be able to be achieved. Moreover, most investments are strategic and not portfolio investments. However, for strategic investments such as railways, we need to know that additional investments are needed for the most part, not the ability to generate a return on filling the demographic fund. This is not at all a matter of fresh resources, as it has already been leaked into the state budget. What have we done with this? Nothing. It is estimated that EUR 250 million could flow into this fund. This year's expenditure will be that much for the coordination of pensions, and more than 250 million for other purposes: family policy funding, scholarships and long-term care, as proposed by law. This is simply an impossible mission. This points to the politicisation of this law, but not to the content, as the fund will not be able to follow the harmonisation of pensions, but rather to address new content. Additional payments will require the sale of assets, without a doubt if this fund is to be established. This means that the fund will soon terminate itself. The final result will be that the state of Slovenia will virtually lose all its assets. Is that the goal? “It really seems that it is a smoke screen, because with what is, it will be impossible to really do something for the financing of pensions,” said participants at the conference. It was estimated that if the pension gap had indeed been filled, it would have been far more meaningful and constructive to encourage additional pension savings instead of this completely missed fund. Predictive management solutions to the law, by which appropriate personnel procedures are terminated in the selection of fund supervisors, reduce the criteria for this function and do not require non-politicality, indicate the disadvantage of the proposal. In this way, it is not possible to expect greater efficiency of management. Corporate governance will only get worse. The OECD representative Hans Christiansen also stressed at the conference that instead of the proposed form of governance, it would be wiser to follow good corporate governance practices in line with the OECD guidelines. For state property must be directed to the public benefit. National companies are owned by citizens, not owned by ministers or each government. The bill therefore brings solutions where the management of companies will not be separated from political influence, members of the supervisory committees and administrations will not be independent in their decision-making. The government will have a decisive impact on the selection of members of the supervisory boards and the management of state services. According to Christiansen, the worst businesses are those state-owned companies that act as some extension authorities. Analyses have shown that it is in such companies that the most cases of bribery and corruption are detected. This law is really not appropriate for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Comrade Pogačnik, would you like a replica? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I'll be very brief. I really ask that you do not deceive that the country will lose its assets by setting up this demographic fund. No assets will be lost by the Republic of Slovenia and the demographic fund is owned by the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Procedural Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u162	This was not a replica, it was a debate and let the colleague sign up for the debate, it would be fitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u163	Thank you very much. It's up to each other to decide what he's gonna do. We continue the debate. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u164	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleague and colleague, nice greeting! The debate on the demographic fund has long had a beard in this esteemed congregation, but there have been no steps towards action. The current government is coming to realize these actions, which we have also entered into a coalition treaty. In New Slovenia – we have never rejected Christian Democrats for Discouragement, nor have we done any obstructions in this area, as was the case on the other hand. As far as the demographic fund is concerned, only my personal conviction. We should have done that 15 or 20 years ago. Each delayed year, each year goes to the detriment of young people, but also of current and future generations of pensioners. I am pleased that we have also been able to bring family policy into this law and that we are also adding a scholarship policy. To think seriously about young people and family politics, we have also written in the 11-member supervisory council, which consists of seven supervisors to be appointed by the National Assembly, this is said to be this esteemed assembly, five on the proposal of the parliamentary groups, one on the proposal of the Union of Retired Persons of Slovenia and one on the proposal of the Youth Council of Slovenia. I am very happy that young people will have their decision - makers too. Once again, this proposal does not talk about privatisation, but about the future, especially for us young people. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest. We'll start the application process. Please sign up. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must say that whenever a Member makes an announcement and explains what he actually wanted or what he actually represents, I am speaking specifically about my colleague Mark Pogačnik, that there will be no misunderstanding, and in particular emphasises the principle that if anything is not true, but that they do not want privatisation with this fund, and that they have not even mentioned it with the letter P – I agree – indeed, even the letter P in the document does not mention that it will go into privatisation. Even more, and thank God that we all have a historical memory, at least certain, if not all, make a comparison and say, you know, it's about the same as in 2012. Of course, with great pains, efforts to establish SDH and then you exercised with referendums, as around today, this parallel wanted to be established. All I can say is that it's true because we already knew how this party wanted to privatize. The fact that this is true reminds us – that is why we also have a bad feeling about the adoption of today’s law – especially the fact that the party, remember, wanted to accept the classification first. Classification where investments are defined as what will be sold, what will be invested or what is priority. It was more or less clear which companies were to be sold. My friend Pogačnik is so fair and honest that at least he says it's true, I must admit, we were inclined to privatize. But you know, privatisation doesn't know any beauty signs, but it's just a simple privatisation. Privatisation means privatisation, property disposal, that goes into private hands. Why sell the golden chicken that carries the golden eggs? That was never clear to me. To see — in the end, he made the following very clear — when Alenka Bratušek came to power, and then it turned out who and what governments were actually selling the property. He doesn't say, but he doesn't make it very clear what was really going on at the time. Let it all go, on purpose, on purpose. The fact is that one year before Alenka Bratušek came to power or became Prime Minister of the Government, the same SDS chief called the troika to Slovenia, threatened to go to hell, warned that the banking system would collapse, but only a matter of time before he called the opposition and coalition meetings and explained which companies were most indebted. Did he take any steps in this direction? Nothing at all. Moreover, he proposed classification after the adoption of the SDH law. Why did we go to the referendum then? We had the opportunity to sign a referendum as Members, which we do not have today after the amended constitution, except for the consultation referendum. It's more than clear that we wanted to stop this privatisation back then. When Alenka Bratušek came to power, she received a very clear message from the European Commission on the principle of taking or leaving: whether you will sell 15 companies that were written and very clearly defined from the classification that was already circulating around then, or whether the troika will come. It was very clear, so it's not fair, Mark, that you're saying today that we were inclined to sell if you want to make a parallel between today's law and the fear the coalition has when it says we're saying that this is the beginning of privatisation. If I remember anything good, and I remember it well, my heart was sore that everything was in those 15 companies in the joint that had to go to the store. Today, among them – including NKBM and others – companies that could be sold first, if sold, at least properly consolidated, and then sold to a certain value. But no, that's when someone wanted to and wanted to privatize you. So much in response to a discussion by a colleague of Pogačnik who says this is different. I admit, I have to say the following things, such as that they were obvious today, even though six years of nothing has been done, that all the governments that had this opportunity should have set up a fund in six years. One thing has to be said out loud. Firstly, in the previous term, we have been on a serious path to agree to set up a demographic fund, but not on the basis of the principle that we have on the table today. But there was something else. Desus made it very clear that he wanted to have a special demographic fund with SDH, but from SDH he would have certain companies, and they had already written and said what companies they wanted – Krka, Insurance Triglav and listed which companies they wanted – in the demographic context. The then Minister of Finance has made it very clear that in this country – and if there is a common denominator, it is only here, to this point, and then not anymore – we cannot manage the assets of the Republic of Slovenia in two different ways. It just doesn't work. We've seen these movies before. That is why we missed the opportunity — because we could not convince Desus of this. Not that the other coalition partners weren't up for it, but Desus even blocked it. What kind of shop is going on today, well, that's the other one. Because I always say, if we want to have a demographic fund, then let's have it because of demographics as a result of what happens in the end, and this is that we have a larger mushroom of older people, which also means users of the pension fund, which, of course, is smaller every year, which is always harder to fill. There's only one slightly bigger serious crisis that gets us, and we've got a serious problem, and now it's looking good. The more the curve of the unemployed grows, the less they pay, the thing is clear, the more the payments have to come from the budget. On this calculation, as you have shown it, what pumping from this fund is supposed to look like, I'm afraid that when we need it, we're not going to have anything to draw on. First of all, not because if we look at these numbers, if that's true, we could spend 200 million on the pension fund in 2040. I'm sorry, that's ridiculous. You know it's funny. But you don't care, because then someone else will deal with this problem, not the government that is sitting today, not the Members that we are sitting in this Parliament today. That's the key problem. That's why some do. [[shows with gesture]] with ease, by the way, they lie, deceive the Slovenian public, how this pension fund will do wonders and I don't know what else. In addition, we would like to push into this fund all living, scholarships, homes for the elderly into the budget obligations that the budget must provide. What else? [[…]] Why don't we push a little more housing policy in, and let's just write another amendment, give some more housing to build, so we can have as little money as possible for what [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah. To a greater extent. That we'd have [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I, Marco? Be patient, it will be. Believe me, you've had to put up with this for so many years, and you're gonna be a little bit more. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u167	I'll lead the session, Comrade Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u168	Why don't we just give it all away? We have the Housing Policy Act on the agenda this week. There I will also tell you how much money we really need, not as much as you imagined in the budget. Why don't we just use the demographic fund to spend the money? Of course, I am joking that there will be no misunderstanding, because I am not about to give from the demographic fund just for everything, but to give only for what it is intended for, and this is for the pension fund because it will need to. And that is when we need it, not when every policy imagines it. Why push into a demographic fund companies that don't belong there and don't even have these returns? At first, if we wanted to, we could have done it with SDH, only then the SDS party had not had that courage. Today, however, she is courageous and she no longer hides her aspirations for managing property, managing a state-owned economy. And most importantly, this fund will be nothing more than a nice, beautiful position where you can set up your people and exhaust them to the point of disability for your own needs, every time a client's elite enjoys the results of much less returns than some think. If we were honest, if we were really honest and really wanted to make one serious move in the area of the demographic fund, we would also present a governance strategy with the law itself. Yes, management strategy, how do you imagine it? If you were able to do that at the time in that government, you would also present the classification. How do you imagine that? And then we'd have a whole palette of your visions ahead of us, what do you seriously, honestly mean to do with it. Decisions have been adopted on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, setting and imposing on the Government to draw up a vision within seven days. Of course it wasn't any of that. It was nothing. But then we would have seen this honesty, and so we actually got a flat-rate assessment of what you imagine, how we're going to solve the problem in this area with the demographic fund. The following proposal was adopted: the Commission calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within seven days, to provide the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the Fiscal Council with an analysis of the long-term impact of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund. Do you have this analysis? You don’t have it because you don’t want to do it at all because you know what this analysis will show — that what you have brought into the National Assembly is one common tool. That's the problem. The next thing that has been adopted is that all corruption risks are taken into account. Today, my colleague Verbič spoke about a number of amendments being adopted – sorry, the key amendments were not accepted, the key amendments were not adopted. Next thing you know, he's gonna give up this concept he's got. My colleague Pogačnik made it clear that he agrees that we have different concepts and management views. But you know, I'm sure of the next. What it looks like and what the concept of government property is, how it will be managed, or how it will be managed by someone else, is no longer a matter of political parties or current authorities. It is already true what colleague Pogačnik says that the fund will be in the 100 percent ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, but within this fund is enough a phone call and the entire decision chain will change to make a difference, which is that it will be sold out or sold out. That is why such management cannot be a matter of one political party, one government, but must certainly have words, if not another, those who actually own this property, and these are citizens. Therefore, it is time for these national issues, which are, to be decided by people and to tell them how they feel about it. This is the only thing I will support in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nicely greeted, minister and everyone else! At the outset, I would like to say that one is to negotiate, and the other is to put forward my own self-pity proposals without the agreement of the coalition partners. This government, the government of Janez Janša, began to build on this bill by continuing to consult coalition partners, to see where the differences were, and in this way amended and adapted the text of the law, so that coalition partners could even reach consensus so that they could continue their consideration of the bill. Then, as has already been clearly stated in the Committee on Finance – unfortunately, this meeting was held by the opposition Members, who today have been so loud, obstructed – by the Minister, working groups have been set up to deal with this law, which have proposed their opinions. It was presented to the Economic and Social Council and the comments of the KPK were taken into account. Of course, they can always not take into account all the wishes, all the comments and all the things that someone proposes. After all, the Government is the one behind the bill and weighs what is appropriate to be included in the law and what is not. Certain comments from the Legal and Legislative Service were also taken into account. The law was complemented by amendments through the first reading and also in the second reading on the committee. The opposition would also be able to have constructive dialogue if it wanted to, but not in a way that it wanted to impose its will. The bill came to the table and this proposal for a law reached a second reading. The proposals that you have tabled so far have not, as I have said, been able to reconcile even within the coalition, but only to achieve support in the National Assembly and the vote. More than once today, it has been said that the only objective is to own state property and to dispossess the state. Obviously, you do not want to understand that both now and after the national demographic fund is set up, it will still have ownership of the whole country. It's not about decommissioning, it's not about privatisation. By what you say, you deceive citizens and citizens. Intergenerational cooperation is important in this law. This law is well established if you have read it from such a point of view, aid and integration between different generations. It is also of great importance that integration between young and old is established. Family policy also has its own essential place in it. That's what I'd say in the end. More than once, it has been said that the power to control this state property will also be exercised. The power of governance will be only as long as we allow it in the National Assembly, and nothing more. We will all have the same power over governance, both the opposition and the coalition. Everything else is a delusion. What still bothered me was that you can't see that this is the basis, that this is the point where the demographic fund will begin to be set up and built at all. Of course, new resources will also be sought to complete, to complement, to elevate this fund, but we cannot contribute to this fund of resources, as has been said today in the debate between Members and Members, of course not all, but some – to increase contributions to businesses and espions, is said to be economic societies and espionage. Those who are already going through the market survival cycle after the epidemic would now be further oppressed, even more burdened, in order to say yes, because we have received additional resources. These are not additional resources. It is necessary to reform the entire tax policy and to see where additional resources can be obtained from different items, not just directly from contributions. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next on the agenda, and Mr Janez Moškrič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u172	Thank you. There's been so much one deceiving here today that we really need to call back. Thank God there is another Member of the National Assembly, I am talking about Member Möderndorfer, who has another historical memory, and who puts some of the facts that SDS Members are here to point out, in particular Mr Pogačnik, on behalf of the proposer, into some real frameworks. I will not repeat myself because I also have no time for certain companies to be sold. They sold themselves on the basis of conclusions, and we sold them because it was absolutely necessary. However, the situation with this demographic fund is completely different. It's not that any of us sitting here are opposed to the demographic fund. Once again, for years and years we have been talking about the need for a demographic fund, because it will run out of pension money, there is no debate here. But we are opposed to the way you did it, and we are giving you arguments. And you say, no, no, it's not true. A long time ago, I was discussing on the table the law drafted by the opposition about the differences between the law of that time and the law that you had drawn up. One of the most important differences is the one we talk about today. Under that law the ownership of companies would remain owned by the Republic of Slovenia and would only transfer management to this demographic fund. And as this demographic fund of yours is designed by the administration and the power they have in the appointment of the supervisory councils of the state and government, it is clear to each of you from the aircraft that political interference in this property will be significantly facilitated in your case, in the case of your law. Subtlely relieved. If the proposer tells us that we are lying, let him tell us why it is necessary to transfer this property. Why, then, if this transfer is not also linked to making it easier for you to appoint supervisory boards and administrations to make it easier for your policy to do so? That's the first question. Another time. If we have always talked about how the pension money is running low, why is it now in line with the law drafted by the opposition, with the exception of pensions, all living in it — demographic policy, now scholarship, then parental policy, or what New Slovenia stands for? Why? All of this should be provided by the budget. My answer is why, that's how I interpret it, is because now the ruling suit, you who are here, can quickly edit these things and give customers some ratings, some candy, so they can implement their program. One in the area of scholarship, this was clearly a requirement of SMC, one in the field of family policy, obviously requires NSI, and so on. And of course, for the demographic fund, as it was intended once in the National Assembly, so that we can provide pensions even in 20 years, there will be little left. Here I resent Desus for completely changing his mind. Apparently, some candy for them is also in this law that they agree that the funds are not being invested, but that they begin to be used immediately. This is a completely wrong concept. And when you say that we did not know how to prepare this law — for the first time, we knew it, we offered it, and you were not interested or interested in talking about it, for the second time, in your marriage, you give up everything that we discussed in the National Assembly so far about the demographic fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u173	Thank you very much. As the last debater in this round, Mr Janez Moškrič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! It will have to be said again that we are talking about the law on national demographics. The demographic fund is linked to the demographic picture. Why should we talk about this? Because the facts in Slovenia are perfectly clear. Thus, the structure of the working population, the structure of the young population and the structure of the old population are not in the relationship to be sustainable in the long term. It is therefore not a law on long-term financing or on the sustainability of the pension fund, but on the long-term sustainability of society as a whole. Therefore, Article 1 on destination is linked to several segments – to the beginning of the chain or to the beginning of each citizen of Slovenia and towards the end. We are talking about a demographic picture, so we are talking about a demographic fund. How's it going? Some said at the beginning: “The key problem with public finances regarding pensions was created in 1996, when we just reduced our contributions.” All of us, especially those involved in entrepreneurship, know that contributions are still high today. And the picture is that we're just going to raise our contributions to the employee, and we're going to solve the current picture, which is already requiring a public pension allowance, even if there's something else to come up with. The key elements are also the constant repetition of falsehoods when it comes to how our grandchildren will pay something. Look, that's just the demographic story. Or the story of a country or a nation, the community is that the current working population provides, should provide a quota of funds for that non-working. Our parents were working, but then we know what the state was doing, and we also know what happened to the country. There is a breakdown of the system in 1989 and the establishment of a new system. For the first five years of the crucial period of this country, a number of things have happened, which has disrupted the picture, a picture has collapsed in the background, when we had to hire a little less than 40-year-old workers from different companies. I was alone in the vicinity of the Vevče Paper, when the social picture of the employees got out, the years got together, and they still enjoy quite a good pension today. It was fast, fast system. And we've already broken the painting in the foundation. Moreover, unfortunately, we also demolished the growth if we mispronounced the nation. So when we want to fix this, we have to look at all these segments. It is said that all these segments and therefore also family policy, which is why youth policy, and if Member Möderndorfer, the donkeys of housing policy, is willing to do so, perhaps only in the light of the guarantee. What does a young family need today? Guarantee, that's all. That someone's behind her because there's a very hard element in the banks. All the state can do is stand behind its citizens, that's all it needs to do is stand behind its citizens. You don't have to give him any money, and you just have to stand behind him enough. In the end, the additional funds or the provision of the resources needed to make it possible for those who are now working or still in the middle to have pensions in the final stages. So please, when you talk about parables, we move the plate, the plate from one end – and I'll say it like this. This plate before us was now for everyday use, this government, and this coalition decided that we would have this plate only on Sundays. So we're going to treat him very carefully. We're not just going to take out what's coming out. Current SDH image: creates assets, super cool, just to run, pays the administration first, and then we go with him for what the country needs. No, now we're going to say, "This is really intentional." That is why this is not one additional pension fund, but it is a dedicated fund – a difference – for the long-term use of this country and, above all, for the needs of this country. Since you can all agree, if you are honest, we can agree that this country is still very rich. My colleague told me at the start, how many things we had to do, you had to do what you're older than me since 1990. There is a picture of a nation, even a standard, if you want, in all the economic field, not least if you want, the road infrastructure, which you find very difficult to hear, the correction of the injustices that the previous state has committed, and even the tycoons have managed to create, and we have not yet failed. Twice happened to us, in addition to the first five years when the system was established that Slovenia was no exception to the global economic crisis, and it was then necessary to resolve it. What did the government do? Because they're so obvious why. The only thing the government could have done that moment was to limit itself, and it did, and unfortunately it had to fall. Because you've managed to convince people that it's not going to work, cut wages, privileges, and that's not going to work. A similar story happens to us with a medical picture during these years. Now people have seen that, even internationally, we are a little bit more connected, it is clear as to employment, ratings, you can negotiate, but the world's institutions clearly tell us that unemployment has increased, but not as much as expected, there have been up to 200,000 jobs that have been problematic. The gross domestic product did not fall as expected. These are also guarantees for our demographic fund. This is a guarantee that if we do so, with the right decisions, in relation to the global economic picture, we do not have to be afraid. Something else about golden chickens and so on, what was sold, what wasn't sold. You know, one colleague has already told about one famous Aydov company, a difficult story was this company because the country, because the managers saw nothing else in it than one ordinary company. However, it is a company that has already exceeded the picture in May 2020 because none of those famous professionals with a salary of 33 000 and more euros, or then a little less, saw no prospects in this company. No, we have sued him, we have prevented him from doing business, it is true to acquire 1 million 600 000 Euros of European funds. Because for a country as co-owner, this was one ordinary company. You see, there is a problem here not only Slovenia, but also Europe, we have heard in the past, when, I don't know, one European company dealing with the automotive industry is worth 10, and one Chinese company dealing in the final phase with the Zoom application that we all use today, and I'm currently 100. I would like these operators to deal with this plate by making those investments at 100 and seeing a clear picture of what those long-term investments are worth. The fact that we are working for our current pensions, that our grandchildren will work for ours — that is, my daughter is already working for her old father, who is still taking the pension. This is a simple matter, and society has been operating for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u175	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. All I see is Mrs. Zabrett and Mr. Pogačnik. First, Mrs. Zabrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. The demographic fund is designed to solve the demographic picture, that's true. But if you think you're going to fix the demographic picture, the demographic trends, you're only going to solve it with a demographic fund, then you're wrong. Demography leaves consequences on the pension register, on the labour market and in health care. These are at least three areas where demographic trends are known, and therefore the demographic fund is only one solution. That's one thing. The second thing is a manoeuvring in a pension box, which can be saved by a demographic pension fund, then we have health care where long-term care is needed, and a labour market where it is necessary to make a change in active employment policy. In any event, only investments which are portfolios that will generate profits and noble capital and also co-finance the pension fund should be in the demographic pension fund, not that everything is alive inside. In addition, your pension fund is expected to co-finance pension policies, DSOs, scholarship policies, family policies, and it is probably best what we have heard today that this pension fund may still be building roads. This demographic fund, which we have been hearing about all day to solve demographic trends and demographic problems, is only a drop into the sea, will need to be solved in other areas. However, the demographic fund that we are looking at today, which you have prepared, will not solve demographic trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u177	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. It's a cakemaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u178	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to extend this debate a little bit, given what has been said earlier, mainly by my colleague Möderndorfer. I don't think I've made any reference to these sales and the withdrawal of state property, the withdrawal of the country from the economy. I find it particularly painful to hear from the opposition that our party is the one selling state property, the one selling state property, the one selling state property at a price. In particular, I wanted to draw attention to this matter: the capital, the capital of the state's assets, was sold when the left governments were. Comrade Möderndorfer also raised the question why we are selling state property, property of chickens carrying golden eggs, that was his expression. The majority of state property in Slovenia was resold due to the Denationalisation Act. This means that the Court and Kad were selling, they got the property, and this property was sold so that these two institutions could settle their obligations under the law. These are the main things. I have mentioned several times that it would be useful to discuss good practices, bad practices in the sale of state property, I am sure that there was something. I always said that — because the government of Alenka Bratušek had already been exposed — for example, the sale of the airport was personally correct for me, that at the moment the state received the right price for the strategic buyer to have been selected. On the side of the former Minister of Finance Križanič, we could have heard that it was a mistake to make Fraport, I will use his words, “pikes” there to shut down the airport and make a pig farm. Those were his words. This can probably still be seen from a magnetogram of some meetings of the Committee on Finance. However, I certainly cannot agree here – the then government of Alenka Bratušek, a list of 15 companies for sale has come to the National Assembly. Since it was already the case that colleague Möderndorfer highlighted the then Law on Slovenian State Holding and Classification. That classification has been prepared, I don't know, I think at least 30, if not on 50 pages with some explanation, why some investments have been classified under portfolios, under strategic and for sale, not on the sales list. I was in Parliament when this list of 15 companies on A4 came and we're going to sell it. Kociprova also talked a lot about these matters, but it was never explained why, for example, Alenka Bratušek, under the government, with the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the then coalition from the Supervisory Council threw a representative of the opposition. There was never that explanation. The Slovenian State Holding Act, which was approved during the second Janša government, had a representative in the Supervisory Board to be appointed on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I think it was the second or third meeting of the National Assembly, but when the government of Alenka Bratušek came with an amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act and threw them out, you threw the opposition's representative out. You've never explained that. That is why perhaps I can say that I agree with my colleague Kociprov, who said that the political impact will now be greater. There will be a greater political impact in the supervisory world, because the opposition will also have a representative in the supervisory council. Because we believe in this coalition that it is necessary to have control over state property in its entirety and that such management is appropriate. However, we cannot go beyond one fact: the government is responsible for managing state property. And if the government is responsible for the management of state property, then the government also has the right to appoint people to the supervisory council who trust them. This is the practice of corporate governance abroad, where they have had experience with private property for some time now, more than in Slovenia. And that's why this is the real thing. I'm sure, once again, I'm going to say that all these accusations, which, the fear of sale, before privatisation, are not justified. Finally, in the sale of state property, the strategy is still the one that dictates the pace of privatisation. I have not observed in any article of this law that this would change. Once again, this law, which we have on the table today, does not refer to privatisation either by the letter P. I can't agree with you here. But I'm sure we have different views, different concepts. Once again, the companies that were sold, which I counted, were sold mainly in the time of the left governments or the governments in which the Social Democrats participated. I think that the issue must go on, that this establishment of the National Demographic Fund Act is appropriate, is good both for the current pensioner and for future pensioners. It does not hold that these funds will make full use of the homes for the elderly, which Slovenia urgently needs, but will only be an additional lever and will probably still be a source of funding to build a home for the older budget. The same is true of measures for family policy. But there's a part of it that's going to do that. For demographics, the demographic fund is also designed for these kinds. Here I see nothing bad, especially the positive thing in the direction of doing it. But I don't know why such a nervous war and croaking with a referendum that I don't think he's gonna do anything good. And it will be the demographic fund that Slovenia would need in 2014 and which was finally brought so far by this government that it was voted 11 votes in favour and no votes against, in a good direction. Colleague Kociper said: "You have rejected our proposal." Yes, we refused because we have a different view of this demographic fund, and the management and the composition. On my part, however, the emphasis has been on governments since 2014, when it was legally decided that this fund should be set up and not set up. And I've never heard one argument here, why you didn't do it. I'm sure you didn't find any agreement within the coalition. This government, the government of Janez Janša, has entered into a coalition contract as one of the priorities of the demographic fund. He's on the table now, and I'm sure he'll get the right majority in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this amendment. [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. There is no interest in the debate, I conclude. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. This is where I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. There is no interest, so I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. The amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 48 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 48a and 48b, and we will therefore discuss all amendments to this Article together. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. No interest, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 73 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 74 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 86a and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate an article 86.b and an amendment by the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups and an amendment by the SDS, SMC and NSI groups. No interest, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, LMŠ and SAB to the new 86.c and 86.c. Nobody wants to debate, I'm closing the debate. With this we have come through the amendments and will decide on them in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Council of the State. Peter Poznań. In front of the pay phone, Mr. Požun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Members! Allow me to briefly explain to you why we have decided to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for a law that you will discuss and decide on. With him, we wanted to guarantee the right to compensation for a period of temporary detention from the work of one of the parents living next to a hospitalized child, which is said to be a child being treated in a hospital, including raising the age of children entitled to cohabitation to 15 years, as laid down in the Patient Rights Act. The fact is that if a child is accompanied by one or one of his or her relatives, this certainly has an important effect on improving treatment, the results are better and the possible trauma that would occur on the child is lower. This is especially important in younger children who are naturally attached to their neighbors. In addition, we wanted to set a ceiling on the length of care provided by a senior family member on calendar days and no longer on working days, thus equating the situation of all parents absent due to the care of a younger family member, no matter how many days a week they work. According to existing regulations, differences may arise between them. The proposal has undergone some substantive changes on the Health Committee, extending the range of beneficiaries to co-existence and compensation between temporary retention from work and changing the way in which they are applied. Today, amendments are also submitted to individual articles extending the right to co-existence to persons in comparable situations and amendments to ensure the smooth implementation of the legal provision. These amendments monitor and remain the same at all times, thus ensuring the right to co-exist and equalise the position of parents. The Council of State is pleased to see that members of the National Assembly have recognized that this is a problem that demands immediate and lasting solutions. I hope that you will show your support for the bill today and that we will all take an important step forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I therefore give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. The Health Committee is at its 12th session. 2. 2021 As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. A supplementary explanation on behalf of the proposer was given by the State Councillor mag. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the aim of the bill is to give one of the parents who resides with a hospitalised child the right to compensation for working hours. In addition, the law increases the age limit of children who are entitled to coexist with one of their parents in a health care facility during their illness. The draft law also sets a ceiling for the length of care of a second member of the family in calendar days and no longer in working days. The purpose of the translation of working days on calendar days is to equalise all beneficiaries in determining the upper limit for the care of a family member, irrespective of the number of working days per week, and to reduce the administrative burden for healthcare providers at primary level. Representative of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary Mag. Marija Magajne stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not, in principle, object to the amendments and additions to the draft law, as tabled by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. While the government advocates a comprehensive approach to amending the existing legislation governing health care and health insurance, the proposed right to co-existence and compensation has not yet been included in the proposed proposal for a system law, but the law has not yet been addressed, even as a result of the covida epidemic. In view of the adoption of an intervention law governing this area, only up to 31. 12. 2021, however, it is reasonable to arrange this in the manner proposed by the State Council. Ms Maček Gustin, representative of the Law-Legal Service, raised some concerns about the bill's proposal and further said that the Law-Legal Service had no comments on the amendments tabled by the coalition. The discussion was supported by the members and members of the Committee by the draft law and the amendments tabled. Despite some concerns that the proposed amendments should be governed by a system-wide law on health care and health insurance and that the adoption of an intervention law should only apply until 31. 12. 2021, they agreed that the draft law governing that area should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u183	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Alenka Forte, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u184	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment provides for the extension of the right to cohabitation of one of the parents or caregivers in a health institution or hospital with a sick child up to the age of 14 years, with a sick child up to the age of 18, or as long as the parental right persists, if there is serious damage or damage to the brain and spinal cords that require training for medical rehabilitation at home, or if there are chronic diseases or defects during training for subsequent medical rehabilitation at home, or if there are such medical conditions where a person needs 24-hour care and care, for a person with legal status governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, and the possibility of cohabitation will not be limited to the age of the person. The amendment provides that one of the parents or guardians shall also be entitled to compensation during the suspension of work on the basis of a co-existence certificate issued by the healthcare provider and not on the basis of the identification of a special medical commission or a personal physician. The right to compensation during the suspension of work shall also extend to cohabitation in the health centre. In addition to parents, caregivers are added as beneficiaries. The refund shall be calculated at the same percentage as the remuneration for the care of the second member of the family. It is also laid down that the maximum length of care of the second member of the family is no longer fixed on working days but on calendar days. The objective is to equalise all beneficiaries in determining the maximum length of care of the second member of the family regardless of the number of working days per individual week, thereby reducing the administrative burden for all primary-level healthcare providers. As you know, today the current regulation of the right to cohabitation provides that compulsory insurance for insured persons provides for the payment of the payment of the accommodation and nutrition expenses of one of the parents in a health care institution with only a sick child up to the age of five years, while the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia covers the accommodation and nutrition expenses of the total price determined by the contract between the institution and the healthcare provider. This problem has already been addressed by anti-Korona law, specifically by the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the COVID-19 epidemic, and in this proposal some of the enlargements are also subject to amendments by members of the government coalition. Otherwise, this law would only apply until 31 December 2021. The adoption of this proposal of the Health and Insurance Act will extend the second and extended right to co-existence, which is now partially regulated by this intervention law. The Government certainly supports such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word again, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u186	Thank you again, Madam President, for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased to adopt, in the light of the views of the parliamentary groups on the Home Committee, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. We have prepared a similar proposal for amendments to the law ourselves, but since the Council of State introduced this law earlier, it was more useful and more meaningful for the proposed law to be improved by amendments. Thus, the coalition parties SDS, NSI and SMC have already tabled amendments for consideration at the Health Committee meeting, which have also been adopted. The draft law and the inclusion of amendments provide the right to compensation for the period of temporary detention from the work of one of the parents who resides with a hospitalised child. Until now, parents, except for rare exceptions, had to give their leave. After that, they'll also have a cash refund. An important novelty is also the extension of the right to parental co-habitation during the child’s medical treatment. This also increases the age limits of children who are entitled to a parent’s or caregiver’s co-existence, up to and including 14 years of age. For severely ill children, this right increases to 18 years and for children who need 24-hour care regardless of their age. In addition to co-existence, the law also regulates the maximum length of care of a senior family member on calendar days and no longer on working days and thus equates the situation of all parents who are absent due to the care of a family member, regardless of how many days a week they work. This also reduces the administrative burden on doctors who are required to issue these certificates at the primary level. At first glance, the proposed changes in the law may not seem great, but they are still important. When children are both children and their parents or caregivers under severe and severe trials, it is vital that they be together. This strengthens the important trust of children and parents in doctors and health care professionals. Finally, the proposed changes also mean a burden on health care professionals who cannot take care of their children at all times, as parents or their caregivers who know and recognize their needs may do. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this will also make the recovery of children faster and better. Today, we also have amendments from coalition parties that further and more precisely regulate the circle of beneficiaries to co-exist in health establishments and health resorts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, both the bill and the amendments are supported and we support its implementation for the well-being of children and their parents or guardians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, Members, good afternoon! The law before us is really one of those that doesn't matter where they came from, but what their solution is. That's how it's supposed to be elsewhere. That is why I am truly pleased that today we are regulating what should have been regulated long ago, namely the legal arrangements of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will provide even better solutions for parents of children who have been in the hospital for a long time. The excellent end is also indicated by the fact that the amendment of the law has already received unanimous support from Members and Members of Parliament on the home working body. To talk about that good future, however, we must return to the past for a short time. Indeed, due to the regular adoption procedure, the law was being examined for a long time. He stood by the law because of his prior consideration of certain other laws. In the meantime, we have settled matters temporarily through intervention laws or so-called CAP laws. By regulating the parental marriage, there will be a new possibility of free living in a hospital with a sick child up to the age of 15. At the same time, this parent will be granted the right to compensation for the period of temporary detention from work on the first day of absence until the end of his stay. It also sets a ceiling on the length of care of the second member of the family, following a new one in calendar and no longer in working days, which reduces the administrative burden of the healthcare staff. The Society of Heroes on the 3rd floor has also taken a strong stand for change in this area. Society for Children treated in the Pediatric Clinic’s haematological department, i.e. those who have experienced a case and a system deficiency on their own. We have listened to this; we have also met with representatives of this society; we have been presented with a lack of regulation of the current law and tribulation. We have felt these hardships and have also concluded that a step forward is needed. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we welcomed these proposed solutions when we introduced the novel by the State Council into the legislative process. At the time of the consideration of the Sixth Anti-Coron Act, a provision was adopted on the proposal of the LMŠ Group and the parties to the democratic opposition which allows parents with special needs who need 24-hour care and care to stay free of charge until the age of 18. We are even more pleased that the coalition, SDS, SMC and NSI, even though at the very meeting of the National Assembly, opposed the opposition solution, adopted our proposal later and included it in its amendments, which were also adopted by the Health Committee. We also recognized as important the problem faced not only by children but also by adults with special needs. These 24 hours a day need a parent or a caregiver. Parents know their children best regardless of age, but at the same time they can participate actively in the treatment itself. As a result, we tabled an amendment to the LMŠ with opposition KUL parties last December, which we wanted one of the parents or guardians of adults who are placed under guardianship and have a designated guardian under the Family Code, to allow for free accommodation with a sick child without age limit. Therefore, persons who, due to mental health problems, mental health problems or any other cause affecting their ability to reason are not able to provide for their rights and their own benefits without harm. The Coalition has prepared its amendments, which are similar to the solutions of our amendments, for the meeting of the parent working body, which is why we did not oppose them in LMŠ at the time and we will not oppose them today. Today, too, we will be delighted to support the marriage proposal because it is a good solution and because it is a solution for those who are basically serving them all here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The right of parents to coexist with a hospitalized child has been unregulated for many years. This is also noted by the proposer of the bill, and we all agree. In doing so, we must not overlook the fact that cohabiting with a hospitalised child also encourages a medical profession. The main objective of the proposal was to allow the right to compensation for temporary absence from work by one of the parents living next to a hospitalised sick child. They also want to raise the age limit for children who would be entitled to co-exist with one of the parents in a health care facility at the time of the disease at the age of 15. This objective would be achieved by establishing the right to a financial compensation during temporary retention from work for parents who co-exist with a sick child in a health institution. This right belongs to parents on a proposal from the first day of cohabitation and lasts until the end of living with a sick child in a health institution. The Group of Social Democrats unanimously supports the solutions and objectives of the bill. The solutions proposed are good, while at the same time addressing a problem that has been being solved for some time. It's our opinion that it's too long. Although the Government or the Ministry of Health did not oppose the law, there were opinions on the working body that the existing problem needed to be resolved systematically and comprehensively. Contrary to the opinion of the Government or the Ministry, the opinions of the parties are in the National Assembly or Members and Members. The amendments proposed both by the coalition and by the opposition clearly indicate the sincere intention of addressing the existing issue already with this bill and that we are not waiting for the systemic solutions advocated by the Ministry. With the proposed solutions that have been voted on, we have upgraded and expanded the existing proposed solutions of the State Council as a proposal. Thus, by adopting this law, we will solve the problems or problems that have been solved for too long, in our view. Although the proposal already had good solutions in its unamended form, the amendments have only further improved it. Following the announcement in the Group of Social Democrats, we announce our unanimous support for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today's amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act in the National Assembly deal with important issues that will positively affect the entire course of treatment of hospitalised children. The bill, which is the subject of today's debate, provides for the right to compensation for a period of temporary detention from the work of one of the parents who resides with a hospitalised child. Parents, foster parents, caregiver, spouse or extra-marital partner will thus be entitled to compensation for the period of the child's hospitalisation, at the same level as that of the salary for the care of the younger family member, i.e. 80 % of the salary. The bill also raises the age limit for children whose parents have the right to co-exist in a healthcare institution. To stay in the hospital, parents of children up to the age of 14, parents with a severely ill child under the age of 18 and parents of children with special needs who need 24-hour care regardless of age will be entitled. The proposal further sets a ceiling for the length of care provided by a second member of the family on calendar days and no longer on working days, thus equating the situation of all parents absent due to the care of a second member of the family, no matter how many days a week they work. As we have had the opportunity to present ourselves at a meeting of the Health Committee, having someone who constantly wakes up and stands by them at a time when they face great mental and physical pressures is invaluable to children. The presence of one of the parents next to the child is regarded as positive and is also supported by the medical profession, especially the health care staff, who is in daily contact with the children and can firsthand see the positive effects that the presence of parents has on the course of treatment. In addition to the benefits of parental presence in the treatment of the child, the SMC also shows a positive effect in the relief of already overburdened healthcare professionals, especially nurses who are available to patients 24 hours a day. In addition to the physical unloading of health personnel, administrative discharge is also crucial. By determining the duration of absence in calendar days, the administrative burden on paediatrics is also reduced, which parents must check for their employee and issue certificates at the primary level. At the same time, a certificate of cohabitation given to the parent by the doctor in whom the child is being treated is sufficient to enforce the remuneration. The right to co-existence and the right to compensation during co-existence were already temporarily regulated in PKP6, and in PKP7, the range of beneficiaries was further extended. However, this is only a temporary solution that has been in place and, as we have already pointed out in dealing with anti-korona packages, it makes sense to settle this issue at systemic level, namely in the Health and Health Insurance Act. Today is the time to listen to all those parents and children who are forced to spend their days in hospitals because of illness. The presence of parents not only creates the trust that children raise to health care professionals but gives them a sense of safety, thus increasing their sensitivity to treatment. For all these reasons, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Cigler is next. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u194	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dearly-respected candidate, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The right to compensation pays when a parent stays in a hospital with a sick child, according to Levice, is a working right. The right to co-existence, which the law somehow knows, is a child's right. For a good 60 years now, we know that divorce of children who have been hospitalized from the family can cause worse emotional disorders. So today we are talking mainly about the right of workers and workers to receive compensation for their absence from work. However, it is necessary to add that the political class in Slovenia agreed very quickly now that the right to work hangs on public cash registers. The rapid agreement is due to the simple fact that the interests of capital and politics in this case are not at odds, but coincide. This is why we all agree, or agree, today on the right to compensation for cohabitation, both for children and for parents. This is also the reason why we would not agree in any way if we suggested that co-existence as a right for parents and work children is covered by employers. Despite the fact that this would be the only right, fair and in accordance with labour law. In Levi, we hope that you will remember this generosity, which is now spreading through the parliamentary benches, when additional funds are needed for public health and when it is necessary to protect it from decommissioning and commercialisation. At that time, the policy will have to go against the interests of capital, and then it will really show who is where it is. Colleagues and colleagues, you had this opportunity at the time of the proposal of the Left to abolish supplementary health insurance, and at the time you voted against this well-founded social proposal, which was also financially put in place, showed that you are only a tool in the hands of lobbyists and capital and that you have practically the interests of parents and children at your side. We will, of course, support this law in Levic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The next position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u196	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The foundation programme of New Slovenia says: “Children are our future. Those who decide for their children and take this responsibility on their shoulders will be the ones most likely to contribute to the future of our community, society and country. This deserves special respect and support from the state. Family policy measures must be sustainable and coordinated in all areas, from tax to family benefits, education and education, health care, housing policies, care for older family members." New Slovenia Election Programme 2018. “The hospital’s absence for the care of the child should clearly be arranged in such a way that it is standardised and, above all, favoured by families.” I am grateful and glad that the party does what is written in the basic programme and what it promises before the elections when it has scissors and canvas in its hands. Up until now, parental housing in a hospital was free of charge only until the age of six, with parents not automatically receiving a hospital allowance. When the child was six years old, the parents had to cover their own living in the hospital, up to 20 euros a day for the cost of accommodation and nutrition. In doing so, they were not automatically entitled to hospital benefits because they were absent from work. Nor was it covered by medical cohabitation, so that children who were entitled to medical treatment did not benefit from this if parents were unable to afford to pay for their own accommodation and meals in the health centre. In Novi Slovenija we are close to people, so we listened to the 3rd floor heroes and parents of children living in hospitals and found a solution. When the new law is adopted, this will replace a similar PKP6 measure, which governs co-operation only temporarily and also narrower than today's proposal for a Health and Health Insurance Act. In addition to living in the hospital, it is possible to stay in the hospital, which means that the accommodation and nutrition of parents during their stay in the hospital and in the hospital are covered by compulsory health insurance. The general boundary for coexistence shall be raised from the sixth to the 15th year. However, for particularly difficult cases, two categories are added where cohabitation is possible until the age of 18 or as long as parental rights persist or are unlimited. Staying until the age of 18 or as long as the parental right lasts in the event of a serious disability or injury and in the event of treatment of a serious health condition, regardless of age, with a person with special needs who needs 24-hour care and care, or with a person with a status under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. I would point out the hospital's compensation, 80% of the basic salary, which will be automatically payable to parents during their stay, without the special confirmation of the medical commission. In this way, we debirocratized and simplified the process. In Novi Slovenija, we have also tabled amendments to the law, which will also add a foster parent, spouse or extramarital partner among the beneficiaries of cohabitation with parents and guardians when we are living next to the child of our spouse or the extramarital partner. New Slovenia has always been close to people close to families, so we are proud to systematically settle this area. We will also arrange for an increase in the compensation for lost income received by parents of children with special needs. I am pleased that in the Group of Members, one step at a time, we are solving problems that all previous governments have failed or wanted to resolve. I am pleased that we are responding with actions to the problems of our citizens. Of course, we will support the Health and Health Insurance Act in the New Slovenia Group as we have proposed similar solutions for PKP6, PKP7 and now for the system law. Sometimes in this national council, I feel like I'm on a cleaning campaign. How many loose ends are left behind by the left governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our positions. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The proposal of the law before us for parents who accompany and coexist with their sick child in the hospital brings great relief. The problem is to cover the cost of being with a child when he is hospitalized. Although the medical profession has supported cohabitation with a hospitalised child all the time and this has encouraged, the system’s arrangement for the exercise of this right does not allow it. An obstacle that needs to be overcome is a low child age limit where parents are still entitled to reimbursement of cohabitation costs. Parents have to pay for living in a health care facility with a child six years of age or older on their own because their health care or insurance did not cover it. Although the presence of parents with severe illness is very welcome and beneficial, for a number of families this was an excessive cost that they could not afford. Heroki 3rd floor, which devotes its energy to helping children and their parents who are or are being treated in the Hemato-oncological Department of the Paediatric Clinic, has taken the initiative of many stakeholders to deal with this problem. They were successful, and in the sixth anti-korona package, we confirmed, inter alia, the solution whereby the costs of accompanying children up to and including 14 years of age will be borne by the insurance company. However, as that measure expires. 12. 2021, this measure does not constitute a systemic solution. The Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which has already been tabled by the Council of State and which we are going to decide on today, offers a comprehensive and, above all, lasting solution to this situation. Thus, it extends the right to co-exist in a way that increases the age limit to 15 years. The right to co-existence is also bound by the right to compensation and lays down the upper limit for the care of a senior family member in calendar and not working days with the aim of equalising all beneficiaries, those who work after a general five-day or six-day working week in a calendar. Despite some arguments that define the novel as too financial affluent for the health treasury, in the SAB Group, we believe that the right to be around a child when it needs you most can also mean quicker recovery and thus savings for cash. Members of the SAB will support the change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will next present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Care is now being considered with the aim of permanently regulating parental accommodation with sick children in hospitals and hospitals. The anti-Korona package provided for a similar measure only temporarily until the end of 2021. If we support today's bill, we will resolve this area permanently. While the basic position is that partial legislative changes are not welcome and we are more inclined to comprehensive systemic solutions, in practice it sometimes turns out that such rapid changes are needed, even if they are in favour of the most vulnerable groups and bring concrete solutions. We know what kind of distress parents face in the face of a child’s illness, even if it is hospitalized. On the other hand, children who at times of illness especially need the support of parents or caregivers. We supported the amendments in Desus on the basis of the consideration of the home committee, which are still slightly upgrading the measure under anti-Korona legislation. They provide for the co-existence of one of the parents or caregivers in a health care facility or hospital with a sick child up to and including 14 years of age. In the event of a more severe disability in which training is needed for subsequent medical rehabilitation at home, and in some other difficult cases, it will be possible to interact with a sick child under the age of 18 or as long as the parental right persists. Regardless of age, it is possible to interact with a person with special needs who needs 24-hour care and care, or with a person with a status under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. The bill also refers to the right to cohabitation as a right to hospital compensation at that time. The hospital compensation for new beneficiaries shall be automatic. This reduces the administrative burden for the healthcare provider at the primary level, which is of course supported in the Desus Group. On the other hand, parents will be spared at least care by regulating formalities due to absence from work. As I have pointed out in the introduction, the drafting of systemic legislation takes too long and in the meantime, with such a partial approach, we can help solve very painful and concrete situations. Therefore, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u201	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SNS Group, Mr Jani Ivanuš will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u202	All in attendance, all in good cheer! The bill is good, it's very good. It's a law whose content is based on compassion for the fellow man. It is the right of children to have the right to have their parents with them all the time in the hospital. The bill calls on parents to provide accommodation, assistance and encouragement for them to stay with the child. The law eliminates the injustices suffered by the parents of children who were hospitalized because the law did not allow them the right to compensation during their temporary stay from work. It's a terrible and difficult situation. The justification applies to children under 14 years of age or up to 18 years of age if the child has other serious defects. We work a lot in the Slovenian National Party Group on the ground, among the people. Thus, we have been familiar with this issue, which is the subject of this law, by one of the mothers from Maribor who had a child in UKC Maribor. When you listen to a parent’s story, you ask yourself, ‘ It’s not true — but it’s more than obvious. ’ The profession is united that the past situation must be properly regulated. The medical profession supports and encourages the interaction of one parent with a hospitalised child, as his presence increases the child’s trust in the staff, gives him a sense of security and enhances his sensitivity to treatment. The financial burden created by the proposed measure is also relatively low compared to the amount of unnecessary care and burden on parents. But it is certainly a rather unknown situation, for until they touch you directly, you cannot know about this problem. According to this, we're on the 12th. 11. 2020 responded without delay with a written initiative on the right to use the hospital's absence addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are very proud that the content of our initiative has been incorporated into Article 98 of the CAP6. The measure was fixed by application until 31 December 2021. It is unacceptable that this is a time-limited measure. This is such an important area that concerns a very vulnerable group of people that such content must be the content of a law without the deadline. We were surprised at the government's opinion of 11. 6. 2020, in which they expressed a rejection of the bill. Given that the content of the PKP6 is consistent with the content of the proposed legislative amendment, we explain this in a way that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has seen that in its opinion of 11. 6. 2020 has been a bit of a turn-on. She just got carried away. We believe that the assessment of the financial consequences is not realistic, because today a number of parents have come to a similar result because of their imaginary absence from the hospital. This is about achieving the same objective: child protection, which is why in our view the measure will ultimately cost much less the budget, as it is impossible to calculate all these unjustified hospital absences, which have been approved in the past in order to circumvent a hard, inhumane legal definition. To repeat, it's a good marriage and there's no need for any cleaning action. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments published on the e-club. Since the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 2, 4 and 5, we will discuss them together. I am thus putting to the debate Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5 and the four amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Only Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Before I justify all these amendments together, let me just give you some answers in the introductions, because they seem important to me. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of a bill drawn up by the Council of State, which we have also completed and extended with the amendments of the coalition parties, we believe that this is a moment where we would like not to diminish the importance of these solutions by providing half-truths or non-truths. In one of the views it was said that we essentially rejected the proposal concerning a similar solution but in the PKP packages. The fact is that we then said that we would support a sustainable solution. The CAP or amendment proposal resolved the matter until 31. 12. 2021 and then this right would cease. So it's not about not supporting me, but it's about what's on the table today – that we solved the matter in marriage and that the matter will be sustainable. It is important in these matters that you cannot define a right that is so important for just one year. This essentially means that there would be even more discrimination. What would happen to a child who would arrive at the end of the year and then be at the beginning of the year? In short, I think it's just a bigger problem than a solution. What is being proposed today is a solution. It is true that the Government may have misinterpreted the matter in its original written position, but those who have been on the committee and are not deplorable know exactly what the Secretary of State said. She said that a comprehensive solution to the changes of this law had already been prepared and that similar solutions were also part of those solutions, systemic solutions, but because of the situation we have in Slovenia, also associated with the covida, this law had not yet been introduced. That is why, on the basis of our desire to see the light of the world as soon as possible, we considered it best to support the law of the State Council, which is good, but which we have extended in a certain way, we have also defined some things more specifically. I think we have a good proposal on the table today, which will certainly help parents and children, and not least the healthcare staff, on the one hand by removing administrative barriers that are already so high at the primary level, and on the other hand also for healthcare professionals who in some way care for these children at a time when the parents are not with them, but we know that they have other obligations and that they cannot take such quality care of children, not least of their characteristics, their needs, their behaviours do not know. In my personal opinion, I may be rejected by the profession here, but I believe that this can also make the recovery of children significantly better and faster. Which means that in some way we're going to allow these kids to come out early from what's called hospitalisation. What is also very important is the extension of the right to so-called medical care. This is also very important. We think it's a good thing the baby's not alone. Many times, then, parents do not even make decisions because they do not want to be away from their children. You know, there's more to this marriage. In other words, if you live in Ljubljana and your child is in a hospital, I don't know, UKC Ljubljana or live in Maribor and your child is in UKC Maribor and so on, where there are hospitals, imagine parents who live miles away from a hospital-treated child and these children are practically unable to visit them, even when they could, because they had no chance or opportunity. And they've been away from each other for a long time, which is another problem. With the amendments that I think the other parliamentary groups will agree with, in fact, we are only dealing with the fact that, in exercising this right to co-existence and all other rights, we have somehow had to – and it is right to – extend it in terms of comparability with the position of parents. It is said that foster parents, spouses and extramarital partners of persons whose child is in a health care or health care facility are included. Rather, they could be a little clumsy in these matters and leave out this important part, resulting in some new injustices and inequalities. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are pleased that this law will be adopted. I don't think there's really any need to minimize its value. The solution is ready in this government, and that's how it is. Everyone had the opportunity to do so, and now, with the help of the State Council, this matter is on the table. We're going to come up with a common solution, which I'm happy to do, and I believe it will help children, parents, and, as I said, health personnel. I believe that today many families will be happier and in some ways more relaxed because the calvary with a sick child is certainly the hardest thing they ever wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Since it's an interest in the debate, I'll open the list, and please sign in. We have four panellists. First, Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Mr Jožef Horvat is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, once again, Madam Vice President. Unfortunately, there are many unresolved problems in this country. I am aware that we cannot save everyone, but we can save one by one, and that is exactly what we do in New Slovenia, we do in coalition. I was approached by Natja and Mitja, the parents of two brave heroes on the 3rd floor. These are children who have cancer and are living on the third floor of the Paediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. They highlighted and presented to me the problem they face daily. Parents who have their children in hospitals paid to be able to interact with their children who have severe illnesses. During the treatment and hospitalization phase, children need their parents because they help them to recover more quickly, and I am sure of that. Parents, then, do not care about money or the cost of living together; their child, his health, is the most important to them. Many parents are absent from work because of their children’s illness, which ultimately affects their income. Under the previous legislation, parents had to pay themselves to stay in a health care facility with a child aged six or over. Since I felt that this was not fairly settled, I suggested that in the sixth antikronapack we correct this anomaly. At the meeting of the Government at that time, Matthew Tonin also insisted that this important area be regulated in such a way that parental cohabitation covered health insurance. We've been listening to the government, and here I'm going to say we did it. The government also included my initiative in the Sixth Anti-Korona Act, which was approved early in November, and was discussed by the National Assembly on 25 November. Following this proposal, which was adopted at the time, living in a hospital will be free of charge for parents of children under the age of 15. In the PKP7, however, I proposed what I also pointed out at the meeting – that parents of children with special needs may receive this, but without age restrictions, because people with special needs should not be confined to their age. Here I am extremely grateful to my fellow Member and to the leader of the Group of Members, Joseph Horvat, who met with the representative of the Council of State, Dr Poząno, who is the host of the Law in the State Council. We have a system law, the Health and Health Insurance Act proposed by the State Council in the procedure, and we adopted this in Novi Slovenija and, of course, in the coalition. We have amended the law to the extent that the measures will be permanent and not temporary, as in PKP6 or PKP7. We have also replaced the proposal with a new content of the State Council, and we will settle this area permanently. In my view, from now on, the parents of children under the age of 15 will be able to stay in hospitals free of charge, and for those who have more serious injuries, this will apply until the age of 18. Without the age limit, this will apply to persons with special needs. Moreover, parents will also receive a hospital allowance, which was not possible here as soon as possible, amounting to 80% of the basic salary, which will belong to parents during their stay automatically and without any specific confirmation by the medical commission. So we debirocratized and simplified this process. When we open a marriage, we need to do something so that we do not continue to correct it and do what is right. I find it really hard to understand that until now it has not been arranged and that the parents of the child have paid to be able to stay with their child. Here I also wonder what kind of country we are if we don't work for people, if we don't work for children, and this coalition does. In Novi Slovenije, we have also tabled an amendment to the law, which will also add a foster parent, spouse and extramarital partner among the beneficiaries of cohabitation among parents and guardians when we are living next to the child of our spouse or the extramarital partner. I am very proud, I am very proud that as a member of the National Assembly, together with the support of the NSI and, of course, the coalition, I have also helped to provide a systemic solution that will help all the parents and their children who are being treated in hospitals. I am pleased to keep the promise that we will work for the people, and we also faithfully fulfill this, step by step to eliminate injustices and to care for those who have been neglected for many years. I have already said that we have written this in both the basic programme and the election programme from 2018, where we wrote in Novi Slovenija: “The absence of a hospital for the care of the child should clearly be arranged in such a way that it is standardised and, above all, favoured by families.” And now that we have the scissors and the canvas in our hands, we do. I have yet to respond to the words of SD Member Bojana Muršič, who said that for too long, we have been solving the problems of children and their parents with the law we are solving today. I ask the honourable Member, what have you done 14 years in the last 20 years, when you were in power, when you were in almost every government, when you had scissors and linen in your hands? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Jožef Horvat, Ms Mojca Žnidarič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u208	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Mag. Peter Požun, colleagues and colleagues! We're here for the people. So we are not heroes, nor are heroes state saints – I know that the state councilman will not blame me – but heroes are truly heroes on the 3rd floor. These are especially heroic children. These are children who are being treated or treated at the Pediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. They're children with cancer. As a youth, their lives have been tested so hard that they need so much more strength and encouragement from parents, adults, and also Members and Members of Parliament. Therefore, the heroes of the 3rd floor are also their fears, the parents of these children, who have been united by this severe illness of their children and their heartfelt desire to help them in their disadvantaged childhood. At this point, I would like to thank the state's Magnificent Councilman. Peter Pojonu, who is the bearer of the novelty of the law. It was almost perfect, almost perfect meeting. For a short time, we sat down with our professional coworkers, because I got this job from the coalition, and in a few minutes it was a hand-to-hand solution. This is a school example of how good solutions can be taken if we work together, even in some ways the lower and upper houses, although we do not have a typical two-house parliament, but nevertheless we all work together for the people. Because the debate on the amendment to Article 1 which I, the amendment, also signed on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, is perhaps about what this is about. The number of persons who have the right to reside with a child in a health institution or health facility shall be coordinated with the circle of persons who have, pursuant to Article 30, paragraph 8, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the right to compensation during their temporary stay from work due to the care of a second member of the family. Thus, persons whose situation is comparable to that of parents are added to the cohabitation beneficiaries, such as the foster father, the spouse and the extramarital partner of the person whose child is in a health care facility or in a health centre. In the case of insured persons referred to in Article 15, paragraph 1, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which refers to detainees and prisoners, the right to co-existence shall be excluded, except for a mother who, as a beneficiary, may co-exist with a child if the child stays with the mother in accordance with the rules governing the enforcement of criminal sanctions. At first glance, it certainly sounds very complicated for those who do not deal daily with marital matter, and in fact the solution proposed by this amendment to Article 1 is very logical and simple. And let me also tell the public what this law actually brings if it is adopted, and I am sure it will. It will replace a similar measure under the PKP6, which regulates coexistence only temporarily and also narrowly as this amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act. Living in a hospital and in a new health care facility also means that the accommodation and nutrition of parents while living in a hospital and hospital are covered by compulsory health insurance. From compulsory health insurance. Come in. The general boundary for co-existence shall be raised from the 6th year to the 15th year. Come in. However, for particularly difficult cases, two categories are added where cohabitation is possible until the age of 18 or as long as parental rights persist or are unlimited. Staying until the age of 18 or as long as the parental right persists in the event of a severe impairment or injury to the brain or spinal cord, where training is required for subsequent medical rehabilitation at home, or in the case of chronic illness or impairment during training for subsequent medical rehabilitation at home or in the event of severe medical condition. However, regardless of age, with a person with special needs who needs 24-hour care and care, or with a person with statutory status governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. This is the case for people with moderate, severe and severe mental disorders, with autistic disorders that have such a severe form of inappropriate behaviour that it prevents them from living on their own and obtaining livelihoods, deafness with at least 50% hearing loss after Fowler, and from the first to including the fifth categories of blindness and blindness, moderate to severe brain injury or impairment and the most difficult person who is not able to engage in social security alone because of disability. The patient's allowance of 80% of the basic salary will be paid to parents during their stay automatically, automatically, without the special confirmation of the medical commission. This is true, as colleague Alex said, some contribution to de-de-irocratisation and simplification of procedures. My colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for the constructive debate and also for your support for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, Mr Nik Prebil is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief because most of them have already been told. The law that we will adopt today - I suppose even unanimously - is actually invaluable to children and also to parents of sick children. It will certainly reduce the family’s many hardships, and it is also right to confirm them unanimously or in as many as possible. By the time the PKP6 was adopted, the child’s parents could have stayed with the hospital only until the age of six; then, of course, it was possible at the rate of payment, and the parents were without medical compensation. As far as I'm aware, the hospital's option was only for the first day and the last day, the leave had to be granted for the rest of the days. I know that our former Minister, Milojka Kolar Celarc, in her mandate, has already made efforts and wanted to improve this situation for certain groups at least when preparing the amendments that were unfortunately not adopted due to the conclusion of the mandate. But then the adoption did not take place, so that we were able to temporarily settle this matter in the PKP6 and now, when the Council of State introduced this law, which we tabled together in the coalition and also in the Health Committee, first with the amendment, so that one of the parents could also co-exist in the event of rehabilitation, today, in the amendment that we are currently discussing, also includes the possibility of co-existence for foster parents. Regrettably, many marriages forget their foster parents, so I am glad that they are now involved on time, as well as spouses or extramarital partners of the parents of the child. I'm just gonna say what I said on the Health Committee. The pediatrician of my children has always stressed, always, every time a child is cured earlier, if the mother is around him, so he has expressed himself, that is, one of the parents. So I want all these hospitalized children to get well as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Nick Prebil has the last word in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! If I want something, it's the fact that we don't politicize these sessions or these topics because it's not really meant for it. It is intended to adopt a solution that I believe will go through with uniform support, a solution that primarily benefits our children and their parents. The rights of all children who have their parents around them all the time, i.e. those who trust them most, those who feel them, are in fact an integral part of the care of children in the hospital, not least the Charter of the European Association for the Rights of Children in Hospitals and many other conventions. When we talk about providing such services, we must take into account the benefits of the child in the first place. However, there are certainly those who are adults after years of age, but because of certain problems in development they cannot decide for themselves as someone who reaches adult status. Therefore, this area must also be regulated, of course. The medical profession here too is one of the best ways to stay together with one of the parents with the hospitalized child is to support it, as it believes that the presence of parents increases the health care or facilitates the course of treatment in the child itself, as it gives a sense of safety and enhances the sensitivity to treatment. As far as what was on the committee was concerned, I would not like to repeat the entire content, but we have tabled in the LMŠ together with some opposition parties an amendment that allowed for a sustainable regulation of law, based on guardianship under the Family Code. Why was this done this way? Because the Family Code clearly sets out the status of a disabled person as to how such a status is acquired, it also clearly defines the rights arising from it. The coalition here has proposed some of its amendments, some broader regulation which, of course, regulates the matter in a similar way, so we have not opposed it and we have already confirmed the law on the home committee. Here's just a brief comment to a colleague about what wasn't and what was and why we're only here today. Look, if you followed procedure and followed that, we'd be talking about this law for the first time today. Since we have met these parents of children, both in our client and in many other parties — that there will be no talk of who did anything — we have recognized this tribulation and we have assessed that the matter must be resolved earlier, so she has also gone into the intervention law and we have not opposed it there. There we made our amendment, which at the time, on the proposal of Mavrica, was spreading the matter with special needs, and unfortunately not everyone supported it at that stage. For there was no time for broader regulation then, we know at what speed intervention laws are passed. However, as it is said, the matter was regulated in a broader way later on with the coalition amendment. As I say, I do not want to use this session to gain some political points, I and those with whom I have sat know exactly that I have helped them, and this is quite enough for me, as it is enough for me to see the matter finally settled after all this time. We will, of course, support the law in the LMŠ, as far as the amendment proposed by the coalition is concerned, even in this meeting, that persons whose situation is comparable to that of parents should be added to the cohabitation beneficiaries, of course, this is an appropriate solution, as well as the proposed date for certain information and organisational adjustments, so we will not oppose it. It's great that we're taking this arrangement today. I am pleased that, given the views expressed, this support will be high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6b and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. With that, we've exhausted the amendments. They will be decided on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and four Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u214	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. Like most European countries, Slovenia is facing population ageing. Demographic change is inevitable and we need to adapt our existing systems to that. We need to create opportunities and opportunities for a quality life for all generations and especially for decent ageing. In the SAB Party, we have advocated everything since the creation of the party to ensure a decent life for our pensioners. We are aware that the pensioners have given much in their work to our society and have done good for their country. It is our duty to ensure their safe and dignified age. We are aware that the fiscal situation will be difficult due to the trend of an ageing society, but it is our job to resolve it. One of the solutions to the stability of the pension fund would also be a real demographic fund that would provide stable resources for the supplementary financing of the pension fund. I'm talking about a real demographic fund, not a subordination and destruction fund. In the Sab Party, we are proud to have succeeded with our proposal and have raised the retirement rate to 63.5%. We were a little less satisfied with the relatively long transitional period of six years, so last autumn we prepared a novel on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we wanted to shorten the transitional period from six years to three years. It does not happen often, but this time it has and in the SAB we are pleased that our proposal and our arguments have also been heard by the Government and the proposal of our law has been supported. With one amendment, the transitional period until the full application of the dose percentage at 63.5% shall apply within four years, which means that it will apply from 1. 1. 2023 on. Of course, the SAB would be more pleased with immediate enforcement, but we are also realistic and aware of the state's fiscal constraints. In addition to this, the original proposal was supplemented by the provision of a disability pension, so that insured persons who have obtained a disability pension will receive this in the amount fixed for 2021 at 41 % of the lowest pension base. There is still some confusion that this change could mean that such a disability pension will only be provided in 2021, which we have also warned ourselves about, also the Legislative and Legal Service. We have been assured by the Government that a newly established minimum disability pension will also be granted in the coming years. Finally, I would like to reiterate that in the SAB Group, in particular in the light of the adoption of the so-called compulsory retirement institution in the seventh anti-Korona package, we still believe that the initial proposal to shorten the transitional period from six to three years is more equitable and more favourable for individuals. In any event, however, we estimate that the shortening of the transitional period is necessary, since otherwise many could be injured for a higher pension. I am therefore pleased that we have reached a consensus and that our proposal for a novel is in line with a great deal of support. In the hope that this is not the last such cooperation of the opposition and the coalition, I would like to thank on behalf of the SAB party all those who will support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a working mother, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Eva Irgl, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. A representative of the applicants, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, a representative of the State Council and a representative of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office participated in the work of the Committee. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposers presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said that the Government understood and fulfilled the needs of the elderly and supported the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, inter alia, that the content of the proposal was mainly a matter of substantive assessment, i.e. political decisions, and therefore the Legal and Legislative Service only made nomological comments to it, which had been taken into account by the proposer in the amendments, with the exception of the final provision. The representative of the Council of State said that the Council of State supported the draft law and was aware that at least part of the inequality in the pension and disability insurance system would be eliminated by a faster increase of the dose percentage. He highlighted some other problematic areas of the ZPUZ-2 that need to be regulated. The representative of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance said that the solutions for invalidity pensions were appropriate and supported by them in the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. He said that the current proposal was corrected, especially when it comes to political consensus. In the debate, the members of the Committee announced support for the bill and agreed that the situation of the elderly should be improved and that safe and dignified age should be ensured for all. The right to a pension is defined in Slovenia as one of the fundamental rights to social security. In doing so, some pointed out that the proposal for a law only brings partial solutions and that it is essential to start a comprehensive solution to the problem in the future. All were of the opinion that policy on such issues should come together. The Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC concerning the raising of minimum invalidity pensions. We then voted on all the articles of the bill together and also adopted them. A complementary bill has been prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have all apologized, Mr Minister and the two State Secretaries, for codifying the situation, so there will be no misunderstanding as to why there are no government representatives at this point. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Aljaž Kovacič, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u218	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the List of Marjan Šarca, we have been looking for a measure to improve the situation of all groups of the population since the beginning of our operations. The raise of the lowest wages and pensions is also recorded in our programme and we have achieved this in a good year. When our government took power in 2018, at the same time we took over a number of accumulated problems in society, including the prevailing situation in the pension area. Soon after the term of office, the government of Marjan Šarc began to prepare amendments to pension legislation, which we have dealt with with with with with a great deal of responsibility and prudence. We have not dealt with the situation through partial measures, but we have prepared serious and deliberate measures that have proved necessary and financially sustainable. They were also coordinated in the context of social dialogue. With the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2019, we sought to extend the work activity; we wanted to introduce changes in the pension system gradually. We wanted to preserve the financial sustainability of the country. Therefore, we have arranged a gradual increase in the retirement scale at 40 years of retirement, both for women and men at 63.5 percent. In this way, we have ensured that new pensions and disability benefits will increase on average between 5 and 15 percent. Changes in the pension system should be introduced gradually, which is why we have proposed a six-year transitional period, following the objective of extending the work activity and raising the actual retirement age. Our proposal also regulates a higher percentage of disability pension in case of disability, resulting from injury at work or occupational illness, which will be measured from the pension base at 63.5 per cent, and a new maximum rate of disability pension for insured persons who have become disabled before the age of 65. We also set an additional dose percentage of 1.36 per cent to each child born or adopted. We have arranged for a double pensioner status, whereby the beneficiary of the first three years in the employment relationship, after fulfilling the age pension conditions, receives 40 per cent of the pension and 20 per cent of the pension after three years. In addition, after a transitional period, the lowest base for the widow’s and family’s pensions will increase from 33 percent of the pension base to 38 percent. The government of Marjan Šarc also raised funds for the annual allowance or so-called pensioner regrees, with the highest level of funding being given to pensioners with the lowest pensions, and with harmonisation we provided even higher pensions in 2019 by 3.2 per cent. Thus, we took steps in the area of pensions and introduced them gradually, making sure that we did not cause unjustified inequalities among people. At this point, it is worth recalling that the pensioners were the most disadvantaged during the time of the government of Janez Janša in 2012, when the infamous ZUJF was adopted. In a few years, however, the government of Marjan Šarc has taken measures to improve the status of all pensioners in a very short time, making it clear to some coalition members that the former pensioner government has done nothing, and we cannot agree. It is true, however, that we have pursued the solution with thoughtfulness, prudence, gradually and in the context of social dialogue. The current government supports the proposed solutions that we have on the table today, which means it also assumes responsibility for amending pension legislation. In this case, we do not oppose the proposed solutions in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! The long-lived society strategy states that the risk of poverty in Slovenia is relatively high. According to the latest data available from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in 2019, the level of the risk of poverty of the elderly is almost twice as high as the average risk of poverty as it is more than 21.4 per cent of the age of 59 years, with male older women particularly exposed to the risk of poverty. The higher risk of poverty is significantly affected by relatively low pensions, which are the main source of income for the elderly. Slovenia is one of the countries where pensions are significantly lower than on average in terms of pre-retirement benefits. As population ageing increases the proportion of population groups that are more likely to be at risk of poverty, social protection systems should be designed to provide decent pensions, a decent standard of living in all lifetimes. We support the proposal for a law that shortens the transitional period for the implementation of a higher percentage for the age, disability or widow's pension, which was adopted by amending the pension system in 2019, from six to four years. We also supported the amendment on the committee, which will redefine the minimum level of disability pension. Persons with disabilities who already receive a disability pension will receive a new disability pension of 41 per cent of the lowest pension base. Dear fellows! We support the proposed changes to the pension system because they will provide a higher standard of living for future pensioners. The amendment will also make the situation of women and men more equal at the rate of retirement faster. In the light of recent partial changes in the pension system, however, we call for the best possible social consensus to be found for future changes in pension reform, which will take into account the interests of all generations and the social partners. Such a way of changing the pension system often leads to new injustices or triggers new inequalities within the same group of beneficiaries of individual rights. We have already been approached by individuals who have retired at a 57.25 per cent dose rate who believe that it is unfair and unfair to be excluded from the changes in the pension law that we are adopting today, which will allow a gradual increase in the dose rate for men to 63.5 per cent. So allow me to repeat from this place the parliamentary initiative recently addressed by my colleague Dejan Židan to the competent ministry to prepare or provide an analysis as soon as possible, covering the amount of pensions paid, which have been recognised in different periods and on the basis of different rules in pension and disability insurance. This analysis should serve as a broad social dialogue on the necessary measures and amendments to pension legislation to ensure a fairer and comparable amount of pension. Regardless of the period of retirement, all pensioners will be in an equal position with pensioners who will retire after 1. 1. 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in December 2012, is being amended nine times today. Today, this law takes a different form and, above all, we are getting closer to the conclusion that in 2012 we did not have a pension reform, as was commonly reported at the time. All the amendments to pension legislation that we agree to have been necessary to date also have increased expenditure from the pension fund, which is, of course, a greater pressure on public finances. However, all the amendments to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance have so far been adopted with broad political support and with the aim of altering or correcting injustices. However, these changes certainly meant a general improvement in the material situation of insurers. One such change is also a change that we are dealing with today. In the coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to reaching a transitional period of up to 63.5% in four years. There was, of course, an epidemic covid-19 and a deterioration of the financial condition of the country, but we found a broader consensus. This consensus was also present in anti-Korona package measures, which also improved the situation of those with low incomes, i.e. pensioners. With the support of the novels ahead of us, however, we want to ensure more favourable conditions for the retirement of those who today have very low salaries and who are thus also promised low pensions. Today, legislation is at the expense of the six-year transitional period, particularly those who have already reached retirement conditions, but still persist in the working relationship due to low wages and low-dose income. The transitional period for reaching a higher dose percentage thus reduces from 6 to 4 years for old pensions, minimum pensions, invalidity pensions and widow's and family pensions. By supplementing the committee responsible, we have also adopted the necessary or necessary amendments to the minimum invalidity pensions. With the supplement, we have re-established the guaranteed amount of invalidity pension. The beneficiaries of a disability pension, which is lower than the guaranteed amount, which is set at 41 per cent of the lowest pension base in 2021, will receive a disability pension which will be close to the amount of the financial social assistance. This solution will apply to everyone, that is to all those who have already established invalidity pensions, and also to newly retired beneficiaries of a disability pension, irrespective of the legislation under which they were granted a disability pension. Today, we will take another step towards a fairer regime, especially for those who are already living so hard either because of low pensions or because of low wages. However, the problem of low pensions and low wages remains a problem that must be re-emphasized as a society and addressed in other laws. In the future, it will also be necessary to consider a possible different pension system, which is already taking a different look with the current many changes. The proposed amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will, of course, be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u224	Today, a law is being discussed that will shorten the transitional period for the increase in the rate of retirement from 6 to 4 years. A relatively small change is therefore being discussed, which I suppose will also be adopted in the National Assembly. But we can discuss even more seriously and ask for priorities. We have done exactly that for today's debate in Levika. The amendment proposes three simple amendments and amendments to the law, which would be well-known for the well-being of the poorest pensioners. These three supplements are as follows. Those absolute lowest pensions are coming up a little bit. Pika. We raise them to at least the short-term minimum cost of living, i.e. EUR 442. To raise pensions, secondly, for 40 years of work, at least to the minimum cost of living, long-term, that is EUR 613. And thirdly, the two raises are also taken into account in the measurement of the shamefully low remuneration from disability insurance and in the assessment of widow's and family's pensions. All of this is paid out of the pension cup. We also suggest that these increases be taken into account for those who are already retired and who are already receiving the lowest pensions. Perhaps in the next debate we will hear how things are not served in such a way that we go to Levica with valuable populism, that we do not know how to count or anything like that, even if we are present in the hall, I have little doubt that we will witness any serious debate. However, the argument is valid. Ladies and gentlemen, all we are proposing in Levica is a change of priority; such a change responds to real social problems. And the poverty of pensioners in this country is unfortunately the number one problem. That's basically what every statistic shows. For example, of all recognised and awarded invalidity pensions in 2020, 70 per cent are the lowest. Or a year earlier, in 2019 – the protection allowance was then received by 19,000 people, although the beneficiaries of pensions below EUR 500 were entitled to this protective allowance, up to twice as many. This, we say in Levica, is a discussion of priorities. And we can add that the political class's priorities have been missed in the past. Just over the last 30 years, it has been, say, a priority of Drnovsk's government, if I start here, a double reduction in contributions to employers. The Pension Insurance Office has lost EUR 20 billion at this time, and today pensions are being paid from the state budget, according to the funds of all citizens and citizens. Or a coalition bond today with SDS-NSI. Their priority in the past was to save money. They said the elevators were impossible. Or, on the other hand, the Parliamentary Chamber's priority is Social Democrats – the abolition of a state pension. Missed, missed and missed again! These were the priorities of the political class in the past, and today we have an opportunity to correct them, in the form of amendments annexed to the law by the socialists. Neither will our proposal bring financial differences, that is to say, I am not talking about individual pensions received by someone who can be lifted from poverty by a decent pension, I am speaking from the point of view of the entire state budget, but to those who will receive this pension will be spared the stigma and shame of being forced to beg for something that belongs to him at social work centres. If you've worked 40 years, you've got a pension worth living, and even if you haven't completed 40 years of work, you've also got an amount that you can at least go through a month. Who will use these funds to cover their rations for supplementary health insurance — for example? Together, I think in today's debate we can think about why we are in the National Assembly, what our priorities are, and raise the lowest pensions with the support of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased to see changes to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. A reduction in the transitional period for the gradual equalisation of the dose percentage for men with a dose percentage for women is foreseen. The 40-year rate for men was 58 per cent in 2020, and in 2021, 59 per cent in 2022 61 per cent, and 63 per cent in 2023. Thus, the percentage for men would be equal to the percentage for women already in 2023 rather than only in 2025, as provided for in the current law. Similarly, the transitional period is reduced for the lowest pensions, widows or family pensions. Under the previous government, at the meeting of the parent body on 25 November 2019 in Novi Slovenije, we tabled an amendment that would reduce the transitional period for raising the dose rate to 63 and a half percent by then from five to three years. Unfortunately, the coalition at the time did not listen and our amendment was rejected. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we do not look at who is proposing the law, but we look at the solutions brought by changes in the law. Since the amendment that we are currently considering has been initiated by Alenka Bratušek and is almost identical to our 2019 proposal, we will be happy to support it. We are pleased that the current opposition sees that it has made mistakes during the rule and that it has rejected good proposals only because they came from the opposition. We are aware, as our Minister Janez Cigler the King has said, that the tribulations that occur are neither left nor right, nor red or black, and we have worked hard, we are working hard, and we will try to eliminate, no matter which side of the solution comes. The coalition has also tabled an amendment on the parent’s working body, after which the disability pension granted in 2021 will amount to 41 percent of the lowest pension base. As a result of this change, men with the lowest disability pensions will receive around €50 higher pensions this year compared to last year. Last year's lowest disability pension for men amounted to 331.1 euros and, according to our proposal, it will amount to 383.6 euros with the already taken into account January harmonisation. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u228	Nice greeting again and thank you for saying so! Growing population ageing raises a number of questions: from the sustainability of the pension system, long-term care arrangements to access health services, and at the same time, we need effective action. All of these challenges cannot be solved with just one change of law, but we can start with a few small steps. On the path of advocacy for vulnerable groups of the population, we have been going to the SAB since the creation of our client and we will walk until we can eradicate poverty among pensioners until we give young people the hope of a better future and until people's confidence in our country is restored. When we went to the elections in 2018, we promised to raise the percentage of pensioners. When we made up the left-wing government after the elections, this was our first requirement, which we have entered into a coalition treaty and, of course, also realized. By the end of 2019, however, when we accepted the novel, which brought a higher dose percentage, we were distracted by a somewhat long transitional period of 6 years. We have therefore prepared a novelty, amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act with the aim of reducing the transitional period by a full rate of 3 years. The initial purpose of our proposal is, as it is said, to shorten the period for the application of a higher percentage for a pension from 6 years to 3 years. Nevertheless, at the meeting of the parent committee, our first proposal was supplemented by an amendment which foresees a reduction in the transitional period from 6 years to 4 years. This proposal has also reached agreement with the government or with the government coalition. Thus, in 2023, all who retire under full conditions will receive a higher dose rate of 63.5 per cent. For a number of years, we have been strongly committed to regulating the status of current and future pensioners. It is unacceptable that a large part of the elderly live on the threshold, some even below the poverty threshold. We owe our pensioners a safe and dignified age, and this does not mean just a decent pension, it also means that the pensioner will cover the cost of living in a nursing home — unfortunately that is not the case today. This also means that the pensioner can drive free of charge through public passenger transport, which I have proposed as Minister of Infrastructure and, of course, we have done so together unanimously in the National Assembly. This also means that he receives an allowance for recreation — or, as we like to say, regress — paid out as provided for by the system law, and this system law is not played out, which unfortunately has been happening for several years. In short, there's still a lot of work to be done. However, in the SAB Group, we are happy that our efforts have produced fruit and, as it turns out, we will today, with a large majority, accept a solution that is good for our pensioners. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the proposal of our novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! A significant positive change in the pension system was adopted at the end of 2019 when a percentage increase for men's pension was determined from 57.25 to 63.5, with a six-year transitional period dynamic. The last one would have expired in 2025. Back then, in the Desus Group, we were working to ensure that pensions of 63.5 could be applied earlier. Therefore, while we are aware of the sustainability of the pension fund and the consequent burden of the state budget, as well as the disproportionateity of the intervention that could lead to too many differences between the insurers who retired in the year before the change and the year after its entry into force, and with this injustice, after careful consideration, to reach 63.5 per cent of the dose in 2023. Now for a little bit of memory. In addition to us, identical proposals were made by the New Slovenia Group and the Alenka Bratušek Group. Unfortunately, our amendments were not supported enough at the time. We are pleased that this time the reduction of the transitional period to raise the percentage for all types of pensions has also been recognised by those who have rejected identical proposals two years ago and have not given support to the proposals. A shorter transitional period is more than necessary in order to improve the pension/pay ratio as soon as possible. The upcoming amendment of the law will thus provide a higher standard of living for future pensioners, not only for the elderly but also for the disabled, and widows and family pensions and the lowest pensions will also be higher. The additional solution presented by the proposal for a new law, which was designed at the meeting of the parent working body, relates to a guaranteed disability pension to which disabled pensioners who have already established disability pensions and who have been newly retired, will be at least 41 per cent of the lowest pension base. The invalidity pension will thus amount to more than EUR 383 and will be justified by all those who do not reach the so-called full pension age under the current law. According to the data of the Slovenian PPIZ, approximately 10 000 200 disabled pensioners, who have a full pension based on the Slovenian pension age, and about two thousand 600 pensioners, who have a proportional pension, would be entitled to the amount of the pension provided. It is also crucial for the decent survival of the fall of life that, in the appropriate relationship between the income arising from the time of work and the income, when someone starts to benefit from a well-deserved pension, it is essential to continue to ensure adequate economic security for the pensioners. It is therefore important to maintain the value of pensions at the time of payment, which is achieved by coordinating pensions. It is not particularly necessary to reiterate that pensioners were reduced by 8.4 per cent during the previous crisis and that this reduction has also been successful, and particularly due to Desus' persistence, to 3.6 per cent. The latter difference, of course, is still to be eliminated in the shortest possible time, and we are aware that it will also be necessary to take into account the WFD warning that some pensioners who retired later are in a significantly better position than those who retired before 2011. This is how we will deal with today's news all Members of the Desus Group are happy to provide our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u232	Dear Vice President, I'm just going to fix myself. I'm Jani Ivánusha. Ivanúša is someone else. That's it. Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! Slovenian pensioners have been building our beautiful homeland for many years, and some have also fought for it in their independence. Slovenians as a nation must have the highest respect and gratitude for their oldest fellow citizens, because they are the ones who have overcome the obstacles that many of us will never meet. The old fathers and mothers of our country deserve in the last period of their lives to be given back as a nation what they gave to us and to our country. During their last life, they deserve to enjoy not only a dignified but also a pleasant life, just as they have in their own country. The increase from 57.25 per cent to 63.5 per cent is the right step in this direction, as well as the reduction in the transitional period for implementation. In the Slovenian National Party, we also support the coalition amendment that raises disability pensions. The lowest invalidity pensions should have been raised long ago at least to the level of social assistance that would have enabled the disabled to live a slightly more decent life. The increase in the invalidity pension in 2021 at 41% of the lowest pension base is the sum comparable to the amount of social assistance, which is, of course, the only correct one. The pension system must be based on justice and, above all, solidarity within the country, which is one of the highest moral values of every nation. As has been said several times on the committee, Slovenian policy, whether it comes from the right or the left, must absolutely step together on the subject of Slovenian pensioners. The fact that some of the oldest relatives are at risk of poverty at all, such as the Slovenian nation, should not be allowed to do so. On the other hand, we finance aliens who in the past have not contributed in any way to the construction of our country and will only harm it in the future. We have to ask Slovenians in the future who deserves more money from the state budget and who will earn it more in the future; the fathers and mothers of our people who created Slovenia, without whom neither us nor our own country, or the foreigners who will destroy it. I think the answer to this question is clear for anyone who, at least with a morale, asks about justice and morality. It is not clear, however, for those who are blinded by international propaganda whose immoral aim is to destroy solidarity within indigenous nations. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support proposals that will improve the living conditions of our oldest nationals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Karen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian Democratic Party today, we are living up to the promise we have made to people. We are moving from words to action and, with the proposed coalition supplement to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we are saving the hardships of disabled pensioners with the lowest pensions, which have also been forgotten under the government of Marjana Sarca. The fact is that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already put twice in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amendments to the pension law, by which we proposed to raise the minimum invalidity pensions to the amount of minimum income or monetary social assistance. We wanted to provide at least some social minimum to disabled pensioners with the lowest pensions as one of the most vulnerable groups of our citizens. Unfortunately, your government, the well-respected opposition, has rejected our proposal twice. However, according to today's proposal for a coalition supplement, this time the level of the lowest invalid pension is re-ordered. This year it will be 41% of the lowest pension base and will be coordinated in accordance with the system's pension law. It is important that the raising of the lowest invalidity pensions is not only applicable this year, but also to the ahead and the current disability pensioners as well as to those who are yet to retire. The proposed novel will therefore cover all disabled pensioners whose pension amounts to less than 41 per cent of the lowest pension base, thus making the lowest disability pension comparable to the amount of financial social assistance from now on. If the proposed amendment is adopted, it will also shorten the transitional period for the equalisation of the dose percentage for men with a dose percentage for women, from 6 to 4 years. Therefore, under the government of Marjana Sarca, it was considered that someone who did not work and did not have any working days or working days could receive as much as €400 of social assistance, someone who could no longer work because of his disability, and you did not want to provide him with such a social minimum. But today the government of John Janša hears and understands the distress of the pensioners and fulfills its promises. Under this government, we have already corrected the injustices of more than 56,000 people, who I did not admit to the time of purchase, even though they paid fair wages under the rules in force at the time. We have corrected the injustices of farmers who have not been granted the amount of their pension according to the amount of the contributions paid. In such decisions, when we can do something good for people, we are different from our colleagues in this opposition, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party, even when we are in the government, we keep our promises and support proposals that we know will bring something good to our citizens, no matter who proposes them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The first word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will not be long given that the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has had a very good constructive and quality debate on this law, but I feel that some things need to be addressed or said because they have been presented in the past have not been adopted and today I hope they will be. I will support the law, and I have done so on the Labour Committee, but I must say here that in the past we have repeatedly proposed that disability pensions be raised in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Every time we were rejected, today we are correcting this, and I believe that this will be settled and that disability pensions will rise to the level of minimum aid or social assistance. In the past, we have proposed, as has already been said, an increase in the dose rate, and I think that you have voted against it in the SAB; today this or we have already fixed it. In the past, we have also proposed that the period of retirement be taken into account, you have been against it, then we have fixed it and it is accepted. It has already been said that in the past we wanted to eliminate discrimination against farmers, even if we did not support it, and then, of course, when we took power, we fixed it immediately. The former farmers paid the amount of insurance for the full extent of the rights, but when they retired, they were granted a narrower range of rights and thus a lower rate of pension. There is no doubt that there was discrimination that had to be eliminated and that we had to eliminate it. We have tabled on the committee coalition parties an amendment that raises the lowest invalidity pensions. I have already said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have twice proposed that disability pensions be raised at least to the level of social assistance. You were against it. Today, we keep the promises we made to the electorate. I am really happy and pleased that people with disabilities in this category, pensionable persons with disabilities, will, however, improve the situation slightly, financially. Of course, I am very closely following the situation, also in the field of disabled persons. Recently, before this amendment was tabled, I met with the President of the Disabled Organisations of Slovenia, where we had a very specific discussion on what should still be done in the field of disabled persons. Among other things, it was necessary to increase the disability pension, and of course I am glad that we succeeded today and that we can keep this promise, which I did not last give to the president of the disability organisations. The second thing we will undoubtedly have to do in this area is also the issue of compensation for physical impairment. We have talked about this a number of times, but I hope that as a country we will also gather together to fix it. I also think it is good that we have had a very important debate some time ago on employment rehabilitation. At that time we also adopted better solutions for the active functioning of disabled people. Here we have participated in both the opposition and the coalition MPs, which has also proved to be the case in this law. Thus, the coalition also supports the opposition proposals, if they are of course good. Last but not least, I must point out, or also recall, that a solidarity allowance of 150 euros in the last anti-korona package was given to the disabled. In short, I will support the marriage, as I have already said. I believe that the representatives of both the PIC and others invited to the meeting of the Committee have also said that the solutions are appropriate in order to open some other areas, in particular in the PIC-2. That's what's waiting for us, but I think we're taking the right steps, we're getting rid of some inequalities in the pension and disability insurance system, and that's good. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly continue to strive to do well in caring for the pensioners and, of course, others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, chairman. Pension law or pension arrangement is quite a complex matter and we are now succeeding a fraction of what we have already begun in the previous government, to regulate and now it is being regulated. Even on our own initiative. First of all, it is right to remember and look at the legal arrangements for pension rights. I'm talking about pension rights. This is primarily the right of social law, which enjoys enhanced legal protection. In the European system, not just us, so in the European area, pensions are based on compulsory pension insurance, the principles of reciprocity and social solidarity. Although many still see the Institute of Old Age Pensions as just something that is designed to enable the survival of the elderly who can no longer do the work, it is not entirely true. The pension became a special right under Article 50 of the Constitution in 2004, which was intended to recognise its economic content in relation to the social content of the right to a pension. This has been gradually followed by legislation and case law. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the pension is a reflection of the contribution made by the citizen from his or her income; in short, it is a right granted to an individual on the basis of his or her previous work. So he's got a pension and a social salary and an economic one. I will join colleagues who have found that they are older, our fathers, mothers and their parents, those who have created a material base for the development of a modern Slovenian state. They are therefore certainly entitled to a decent social and economic situation in society. However, many opportunities have been missed. Among them is what we have experienced today, the creation of a strong demographic fund already at the time of the privatisation of social and state property. However, this can at least be partially remedied in a more recent time, but not by the law that was before us today. So, in relation to the pensioners, our mothers and fathers and their parents, for many of them the current situation is a major social and economic injustice. The problems we have in the current pension system remain. With this correction, we will eliminate the illegal reduction of pensions by increasing the dose rate, we have already abolished something, illegal restriction or prohibition of work and other paid work of pensioners. The challenge of ensuring the financial sustainability of the pension system, as I have already said, is still partly seen in the establishment of an independent autonomous demographic fund, but in a completely different concept, as proposed today, we need to implement the principle that each work counts, and with appropriate measures in the labour market, we need to encourage the early integration of young people into the labour market and stimulate the extension of work activities and promote an increase in retirement age. That's what's waiting for us. The Faculty of Economics offered us exits at a business conference in the past year or before, showing a projection by 2059, which indicates a solution to the gradual approximation of the following objectives. So things are solved, we just have to work in the long term and in the right way. So, the extension of older people's participation in the labour market for more – today we have heard that we have extended this for 6 years in the last 20, 30 years – for another 7 years. Faster integration into the labour market for two years – thus achieving some Sweden – and a gradual approximation of productivity to the European average. Under these conditions, the burden of Slovenia's GDP with pensions would remain below 11 per cent. So, there are solutions, we just have to take them seriously and in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u240	I have two points or one point of debate and one question for this amendment. The first item is the debate. Today, we have listened to previous speakers, even in the views of the parliamentary groups, how the SDS came to be, yes, and we rescue the pensioners, we keep our promises and so on. And I'd like to point out the following. About a year ago, in the National Assembly, an intervention took place in the totality of the pension period and in the rural areas of the pension. That intervention was somewhat formally questionable from the point of view of doing so as not to create new injustices for any other groups of pensioners. He also opened the articles of legislation that allowed us to be amended in Levica. We have proposed that pension rights should also be recognised to self-payers who in the past have paid into the pension register, then the legal regime, the right legislation, has changed, they have not been notified about the changes in the legislation – that is, these self-payers – and they have continued to pay. That money, however, was not confessed to them anywhere or confessed to them in the way that they were convinced it was. Thus, as part of this intervention, we also wanted to resolve this, and it showed that we have the votes. Tomaž Lisec from SDS came to me: “Miha, look, I have the votes of our parliamentary group, we are also agreed with New Slovenia, let us put this through.” I was already happy, here we are, the opposition party in Levica, but we will still be able to resolve this with united forces. Then came the vote – pof! There were no votes from the right tribune. Pensioners who have been wronged to pay, and then have not been fully recognized in pension rights, are still dry today, still suffering the injustice that the pension system has caused them. So much about how much SDS promises apply, how much they help people, they're up to what they say and so on. But this is only for the opening point of the context; in fact, you wouldn't get too caught up at this point in the SDS because it's basically that disability pensions get fixed up, a good thing. But I have one question for the initiators of this change: Why are disability pensions yes and disability insurance or disability benefits not? Both are paid from the same pension register. Disabled people – we know what a bad social situation they are. It would make sense to fix all this in a set.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Then I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Check in. Check in. We've got two reported. The first one gets the word "Boštjan Koražija." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u242	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In fact, we are already spinning at this time, even in the last two, three years, and even earlier, as I have been following things around one and the same point, and these are very poor or too low pensions and also very poor social and property status of pensioners and pensioners in Slovenia. And when we come up with proposals like these today, it is necessary to support the matter, but also with our amendments, which are very well prepared or also written. I hope that today, just as we discussed the SDS earlier, they will support this today. I wish you would. And New Slovenia. We have things that are very painful, or even in the sky, which are eerie about data about this social threat to the elderly in Slovenia. According to ZPIZ data, 3 000 564 people received a disability pension of less than €300 in 2020. And yes, you have to think about it, asking why it could have happened. We also have customers who should fix it, storm it, cooperate, persist. For this, they were also elected here in the National Assembly. In Levica, we are always ready when it is necessary to help or when it is necessary to save and be supportive, or even the voice of the weakest in our society, and this is certainly what the pensioners are. But when we talk about people with disabilities and disability pensions, as Micah explained earlier, good solutions should always be asked and deepened or suggested. And I'm gonna keep going with the data. Women are the most exposed, mainly over 65 years of age, 23 percent, and at the risk of poverty of more than 75 years of age, as many as 28.1 percent in Slovenia. These are again data that not only affect people very much, but also ground them in some cases, what has actually been going on in Slovenia over the last 30 years, to talk about these numbers, to talk about such topics, to talk about this terrible social situation of pensioners and pensioners and, of course, disabled women and disabled persons, even when it comes to their pensions or disabled persons. Keep going. About 20,000 pensioners have under EUR 400. Again, in fact, numbers don't lie. Everyone who has made a policy in the last 30 years in the sense that you have been here in order to save and help a specific group, imagine or wonder why you have done so or what you have done in this case. Then, in 2018, about 10 percent of the population in 2018 considered their health status to be poor or very poor and only among the elderly – 65 years of age or older – to be significantly higher and to be 23 percent. These are all the consequences of these low, shameful pensions and also the treatment of pensioners. I'll leave some more time to discuss. In any case, I ask you to support these amendments, because they are really well placed, written and completed, because it will come again from the other side to cooperate, to come together. Yeah, well, now you have the perfect chance of really getting together, so let's work together and support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the subject of pensions, their height, is in fact one of the most important themes in our society, as it is a topic that addresses social existence, social security and also the risk of poverty occurring among the most vulnerable people of our society. With both the economic crisis and the combination, I will say, the reduction in people's employment has also begun to decrease the percentage of the pension dose, and even from 84 per cent due to the crisis has fallen to 57 per cent and a half per cent. We have always advocated the rights of pensioners in the Sab Party, and we have also been the first advocate for the regular harmonisation of pensions, including for the beginning of the regression to be paid as before the crisis at two levels. In some cases we have been more successful, in some less, we have also been part of the coalition, and although our wishes and intentions have been clear and loud, in certain matters we have had to submit ourselves to the decisions of the government. However, despite our initiative, pensions have begun to be coordinated, and regular and extraordinary coordination has been achieved. The pensioners were also provided with free public inter-national passenger transport, for which we want to extend to Slovenian cities and villages, so that this sustainable mobility will be fully realized. The last thing we are addressing today is, of course, that the dose rate starts to rise faster for men as well. We know that it is already set at 63.5 per cent for women, but for men not yet, and with today's decision, or with a decision to be taken at this meeting of the National Assembly, the transitional period for men will be reduced and, in fact, this dose rate will be harmonised over six years. In the SAB party, we have found agreement and the necessary support, as a proposal for this change with the other stakeholders in Parliament and also in the State Council, for which I am grateful and thank you. However, I would like to say that matters relating to the level of pensions need to be addressed in a broad and integrated manner. In Slovenia, we need to ensure that young people start entering the labour market early, and because of the ageing population and long-lived society, we will also have to ensure that jobs are adapted to the older population so that they can be fit for work with reduced psychophysical skills. If the life expectancy has increased significantly over the last ten years or so, it is also important to realize that in these demographic trends this is conditioned and entails an extension or subsequent retirement. We will not be able to hide from this, especially in the fact that this relationship between the working population and pensioners is somehow moving in the ratio of 1:1.5, in Austria this relationship between the pensioners and the working people is 1:3.5. So when someone talks about why there are better and higher pensions abroad or in the neighborhood, it is necessary to have this in front of the eyes, and the cause they have abroad also has roots in immigration. When someone talks about these relationships and, on the other hand, hits people after they move in or expresses some hostility toward foreigners, he has to present all the facts to people and tell them what they are doing, how they relate to each other. However, I am very pleased that our proposal from the SAB party has been received in the National Assembly or will receive adequate support. However, in fact, I would like to say that in further discussions, when we take new legislative measures, it also has something in its head or in its mind that we need to encourage young people to start working as soon as possible. These low pensions, i.e. EUR 300, 400, have an impact on the part-time work, and this needs to be clearly illustrated. So it's not a minimum pension, but it's a pension for a proportional part of the working age, and those who don't work, that's basically proof of this dose percentage, or this low pension, which is lower than the minimum, that's why people simply miss working hours. We need to send a message to young people that work is worth it, work as soon as possible so that you have full conditions when the conditions for retirement begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one gets the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u246	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I said before: this government works. When we took over this government, we ran into a lot of problems, a lot of problems; in short, it's burning in all areas. This government, this coalition works and solves one problem after another. This government works, however you laugh now, this government works. I'll also give you one example of how much you've been working and how much we're working now. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we are pleased to see amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for a reduction in the transitional period for the gradual equalization of the percentage for men with a percentage of women. The rate of 40 years of retirement for men in 2020 was 58.5 per cent; in 2021, 59.5, in 2022 61.5 and in 2023 63.5 per cent. Thus, the percentage for men would be equal to the percentage for women already in 2023 instead of only 2025, as provided for in the current law. Similarly, the transitional period is reduced for the lowest pensions, widows or family pensions. I would like to remind you that under the previous government, when we discussed this law – at the time in Novi Slovenija we tabled an amendment that would reduce the percentage of men to 5 to 3 years, then we proposed that in Novi Slovenija this percentage should be reduced once again from 5 to 3 years. Well, you probably know what happened back then. The then government, the government of Mariana Sarca, the KUL coalition was not inclined to do so. Again, it is confirmed that what we are saying in New Slovenia, when we are in opposition, is what we are doing when we are in power, when we have scissors and canvas in our hands. This time the KUL opposition probably realized that it had rejected a good proposal only because it came from the opposition at the time. Look, our Minister, Janez Cigler the King, has already said that the difficulties that arise are not left or right, not red or black. And we have worked hard, worked hard, and worked hard to get away from these tribulations, no matter where the solution comes from. In Novi Slovenije, we have proposed with the coalition that 41% of the lowest disability pensions for both men and women be applied already this year. What does this mean in particular – this will make the lowest disability pensions for men about 50 euros higher than last year's. I often say that they count the actions; the actions we care about the decent life of the elderly and our most vulnerable citizens. Let these acts be as many as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my debate, because this calls for an image from me, I thank the SAB Group for the introduction of this law. This is one proof that we can do something good for our people if we work together. This is another law of opposition supported by this coalition, and it is not the last. And I'm not going to do an inventory of when a coalition has supported what and how many opposition proposals. That's not important today. In fact, the SAB has captured the right moment and has also seen our coalition contract, which is commendable, where in Chapter II Youth, family, pensions, social affairs, there is a raise of 63.5 per cent in four years. We are this experiment, so New Slovenia has already had this experiment in the time of the previous government, we have not succeeded, but better late than never. This time I see that it is affection for this law and that we are extremely pleased with it. Of course, it's not a pension reform, even though we're looking forward to it. Certainly not in this term, but in the beginning of the next. This is absolutely necessary and will have to cut down fundamentally into our system, our pension system. If you allow me to just summarize some of the measures or legal solutions that we adopted last year since 13 March when this government took an oath, they have been implemented. First, last year, regular annual reconciliation of pensions amounting to 3.2 per cent, which means EUR 172 million for pensioners. Then, with the lowest pensions of up to €700, a solidarity allowance, the so-called anti-korona allowance, was paid, totalling around €67 million. At the end of June, pensioners were also paid a regular annual pension allowance totalling around € 138 million, almost € 139 million. Let me remind you that in December it was implemented under the new law that we passed, under the new law, an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, by 2 per cent, meaning 94 million euros in financial terms. To sum up, last year, a good €471 million was paid for the pension allowance and for various solidarity allowances and reconciliations. On 11 January this year, a second anti-Korona solidarity allowance was paid to pensioners with a minimum pension totalling around €70 million. This brings together total extraordinary payments, in addition to the regular pension, in last year, including this year's January, and this sum is about €540 million. For someone much, for someone too little; even if this number is compared to EUR 5.8 billion, which is a total value, if I may say, of pension bills for 2020. All of what I have listed, and in particular the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, two solidarity anti-Korona supplements in total value of poor €140 million, we have been working together, then together with the Desus Group, which must be recognised first that I regret that they have stepped out of the coalition and that their continued permanent efforts to improve the pensioner's standard must be recognised. Here I like to add perhaps a little in jest, but even more truly, that Desus achieves the most for the pensioners when he is in our society. But it's just for thought. It is fair that the Government also gave a positive opinion on the SAB party's proposal. The government – and here I must thank Minister Janez Cigler King, who is certainly following us from home from quarantine, if I may say so, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the indications and justifications of the law's proponents. As is clear from the coalition agreement itself, which I have already quoted, raising the dose percentage to 63.5 per cent over a four-year transitional period is one of the objectives and it is therefore perfectly normal that the proposal for the SAB Group's bill was not opposed by the Government. Despite the desire to ensure as much social security as possible for pensioners, account must be taken of the nature of the pension system, which does not allow for rapid changes. All changes in the pension system must be introduced gradually, rationally and rationally and must take effect forward and at appropriate long transitional periods. In order to ensure greater fairness to all system stakeholders, it is therefore necessary to ensure that higher rights are guaranteed gradually and at an appropriate time period. We regret the need for a clear recognition; at this point, the National Assembly is unable to resolve and correct certain injustices that have occurred in the past – and I will not quote what governments have been – to the pensioners. And they were happening. During a nine-year period, I called this rule of two nines, in a nine-year period, say from 2008 to 2017, the dosage coefficient fell by 9 percentage points, so rule two nines. For 9 percentage points. That's dramatic for pensioners. How do you fix it back? What kind of financial asset is that? How can legislation work retrogradely? Indeed, if the National Assembly can justify this, I do not see the problem here, but this is a supply that probably requires a larger majority in the National Assembly and greater stability in the political system. I'm sure that's what's waiting for us. It's just that the guilt has to be fixed. Coalition debaters have already told me that, of course, the law also brings about improvements in the field of invalidity pensions, and that we have neglected for a long time, and we could say for a long time which areas are particularly neglected. The peasants' pensions are shamefully low. True, everyone will say, yes, they didn't pay, but now they can't win. Probably, probably, but there should probably be some kind of social adjustment there; not as a pension, but as a social adjustment. I regret that once a government abolished so-called state pensions, which were not pensions, but it was a huge blow to the people on the edge. And it's from a party, from a coalition that has declared itself extremely social. I regret that these wounds are still visible today. We've fixed some of them, and there's something else waiting for us. That is why we must be very careful of Members and Members when we are changing the pension system, which, of course, must also be particularly sustainable. Resilient. We can't just imagine giving everyone a thousand euros of pensions. These were some promises; but they were not well understood, this is not a matter of today’s debate. And a lot of people fall for it, even when it's an election campaign. Once again, thanking the SAB that we have been able to implement one point of the coalition treaty. All together, the National Assembly will adopt the law, the National Assembly will do something good for the pensioners. It is said that those who retire from 1 January 2023 will have a dose of 63.5 percent, which is the work of this law or of this national assembly. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think that the central discussion or debate today should focus on the problem of pension poverty. Yes, I am fully aware that the original SAB law basically cuts the time or cuts the reasons in which the dose percentages should be raised, all great and right, but through this law the possibility has also opened up to address the poverty of pensioners as the far-reaching problem that we have within the framework of poverty resolution. To this end, we have tabled an amendment to the law in Levica. This amendment, I think, as I began, should be at the heart of today's debate. What do we want to achieve? First time. For absolute minimum pensions, we can call them the income floor for all pensioners, regardless of whether they have worked 40 years or not, pensions rise to at least the short-term minimum cost of living – 442 euros. And there will be someone who will say yes, why they did not work anymore, why they no longer paid into the pension box — see, pensions are so low, there are so many low pensions that people in this country cannot survive. And at the very least, any society that calls itself social is the one that's taken care of by the groom for a month. That there's no poverty in society. Unfortunately, Slovenia has poverty. This poverty is severe, especially in the case of pensioners, but it is particularly severe in the case of older women. In short, the first measure we propose in Levica could slowly say what we demand because people live in such shameful conditions that it is not for anywhere, a salary floor or an income floor for all the pensions of 442 euros – a short-term minimum cost of living. Action two. For those who have reached 40 years of working age, the income floor for a pension should be set to the level of long-term living costs, namely EUR 613. If you have worked for 40 years, you have nothing to live on with a lower pension than calculated — and that is the only such number and calculation as we have: long-term minimum cost of living. These 613 euros belong to you because you worked for 40 years because you exist and built this society, you built this country — it has to pay you back. Thirdly, both withdrawals must also be taken into account in the calculation of disability benefits, in the assessment of widow's, family pensions. All these provisions also apply to existing pension recipients. It is said that not only for future pensioners, this should also apply to current pensioners who are suffering from poverty. The reason why we decided to make this amendment in Levica is that I have already hinted. We are responding to a real social need, a real social injustice and misery. We don't think there's any argument here that can convince us otherwise. We very much want this amendment to be adopted, because we also see it as the first serious step in which it is adopted, the fight against poverty among pensioners. Because everything we've seen so far is mostly cosmetic repairs. The only way I can remember him since 2014, since I've been in here – in fact there were two. The first is that the dose percentages are raised at all and that this trend is halted, and the second, that the lowest full-time pension has been entered into the legislation. These are two such institutions that have guided pension policy in the right direction but have not gone far enough. Of course, this amendment we are making in Levica will not just save the poverty of pensioners by means of a magic wand, but we are still talking about relatively low amounts. 442 euros as the lowest pension is still a shamefully low pension, 613 as the lowest pension for 40 years of work, yes, it is still a shamefully low pension, and these are much higher pensions than people now have and with which they must find and come over the month. What does it look like? The current 40-year pension granted is in December 2020, the last figure we have was €566. The lowest pension, says what I marked a few moments ago as an income bottom, amounted to EUR 246.45. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me who can survive with less than 250 euros of pension in this country. Show him to me! And how people suffer it, how they endure it, how they find themselves, how they're still alive at such miserable amounts, is completely incomprehensible to me. The elders are going to pick up packages on the Red Cross, Karitas, and there will be someone who is very smart and helpful with the following argument, which we listen to in Levica every time we try to raise the lowest pensions, and that is: yes, and the pension box, these are not social transfers, pensions are pensions if someone wants to improve their pension with social transfers, has a protective allowance. If, here are separate instruments of the pension and social system, we must not mix and cross. On a purely conceptual level, I can remove this very quickly to be simple nonsense; stupidity, because already the pension system does not work in this way and after all, the pension system is without the inclusion of solidarity and basic milestones that enable people to survive without connection. Solidarity must be a fundamental guide, not some kind of flow and insurance system. Secondly, I think that there is another real need for people in this society that we are trying to respond to – as is another of our social systems. This is not done as something that people would want to help, that saves poverty, and at least the poverty of the elderly, who also find themselves with information technology and thus find it a little harder to find them than the younger generations, are likely to be brought up in a somewhat more disciplined spirit. Our social system, including a protective supplement to repair the lowest pension of pensioners, is a maze of various bureaucracy, you must prove from Pontius to Pilate. Everything. You're going to ask for a social transfer, they're going to let you go, I'm going to mention it, but I think I'm right, over 40 different records, they're going to take you down there to your pants. And even though you have worked your whole life, you have contributed to society and then you must — what? At an old age, begging government officials to give you what you own. But they don't give you a pension where people understand that I've earned it, it's something that will provide me with a safe age, but in the form of a social transfer. In form, say to this social assistance for the elderly, a protective allowance. Many of the elderly — poor at all — but we are talking about the elderly — who are suffering from poverty is not decided on this, the protective allowance and the correction of the pension upstairs. For the first time, because they do not even know that this is any instrument available to them. A lot of people don't even know what they can use in this country. Second, even if they apply, there are more corrupt officials, and they find a thousand and one reason and a social system or our antisocial system offers you huge points where you can find a reason not to help someone, everything in our social system is focused on not helping people, but to discipline them and keep them as far away from them as possible. Third, a factor of shame that I've already talked about. Because they accept poverty as something that is their own feler in life, as something that they are themselves guilty of, as something that they must hide from society and from other people. Poverty is really not an individual’s fault; poverty is a social disgrace. Therefore, it would also be necessary to speak much differently about the lowest pensions and social transfers in the National Assembly, but not that every time we mention some redistributive mechanisms of the state and the poorest, the first reflection of the entire policy of establishment — it is abuse. Of course, when buying weapons, ladies and gentlemen do not see abuse. But when it comes to giving one poor man two coins more, then: ow, ow, ow! Abuse. The easiest way to intervene materially in the poverty of pensioners is to raise the lowest pensions. I will reiterate what we are proposing: the short-term minimum cost of living, this should be the income floor for all pensions. Pika, it's over. That's it. We don't have anything to talk about here – 442 euros, if you're in a pension, it belongs to you. Got it! Same for 40 years of work. Pika, over, done – you own €613. It's a long-term cost of living. I warn you, these numbers were charged in 2016. They were already low, weren't they? Today, when we are four or five years later, the purchasing power of these euro is even lower. The only numbers we have are the ones we have. And, of course, thirdly, both of the raises I mention must also be taken into account in the assessment of disability benefits, in the assessment of widow's family pensions, and all of this must also apply to the already retired, to the current pensioners. They too must receive these increases and, given these increases, must be measured against their pensions. I see no reason other than political prestige, perhaps political stubbornness or pure spite, why such an amendment as we propose in Levica today would not be supported. It's bad for people, they hit poverty, they deserve better; we don't talk about luxury, we talk about macaroni, we talk about bread, and I don't really see the financial burden of the pension system. After all, even if it were, we will not look at every euro when it comes to helping people in poverty, especially if we find ourselves, say, with a government that buys at the same time for 780 million euros in weapons. In opposition to raising the lowest pensions to a permanent raise, one serious initiative to save the poverty of pensioners, then it would count the financial consequences, if, yes, you know, this is such a cash burden that we really can't do that. I would therefore like to include in the discussion this amendment and the content that we are discussing some of the other parliamentary groups, in particular the coalition parliamentary groups, which are somehow easier to find and contribute to such amendments than some Miha Kordiš from the Party of Levi. It would be nice to hear a definition if not the Ministry's representatives, in particular the Ministry of Labour – they do not have them today because they are quarantined, hospitalized and so on – but we have at least a few coalition members who insist, and they may be able to comment on our amendment. Purely materially, as far as these financial consequences are concerned, because I know that this is a classic argument that I have been listening to for six years and I am fed up with it; regardless of whether I think any financial consequences would already be, these funds need to be found, the lowest pensions need to be raised. Got it! I think that the financial consequences themselves would not be too extensive, at least they should not be, for a simple reason – I was talking about a protective supplement earlier. All who have such very low pensions should, in principle, be entitled to a protective allowance, which is paid from the state budget or from its social register. The same state budget is also financed by deficits in the pension register. So the total amount of funds that would go for this lowest pension raise would have gone up negligiblely. This is only about exactly what the accounts are, which are the items from which it is drawn. Therefore, if a slightly higher mass is paid to raise the lowest pensions from the pension register, the simple budget on the one hand will move more over this transfer to the pension register, and on the other hand the items of the Ministry of Labour, which include the security allowance, will be released.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u252	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I have really tried to follow this last debate, I have been making great efforts, but I must say that at the last moment, my debate has changed significantly and that my viewers and viewers should forgive me at this late hour. First of all, I have listened very well to the debate and I must say that I sincerely apologize to all the officials who my predecessor threw you into the same basket; bureaucrats and even worse words have been used. I personally know quite a few excellent officials, which is why I also trust in this country, and I must say, if you have taken these amendments seriously, which I doubt, I wonder why you did not, say, come to New Slovenia and introduce these amendments to us. I seriously wonder if you were serious about whether you asked the Ministry what financial obligations of this amendment might be, or perhaps so, if you have increased it in a negligible way, I do not know, but I do wonder, but perhaps there is a party in the National Assembly who has answers to all the problems. [[…]] I doubt it, I try every day, and in the first place I don't say I know all the answers. Today we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Here, as we see below, this proposal has been proposed by a group of MEPs and MEPs. Andrey Raj, the soybean, the principle. In the first place, I must say that we will support this in New Slovenia. I think the law is good, we are kind of before, the predecessors before me have said this, we have already tabled an amendment under the previous government in the consideration of the then novel ZPIZ-2G at the meeting of the mother's working body – I can also tell you the date, 25 November 2019 – that would reduce the transitional period for raising the dose rate to 63.5 from five to three years. I'm really sorry, I wasn't in the National Assembly at the time, but maybe it was you, colleagues and colleagues, but at the time these solutions were rejected. But I'm glad, look, we all know that we're making mistakes and that this rejection was a mistake, and I'm glad that you're making this right now, and we're doing a little bit of repair with the coalition's amendments – and we're moving on. I'm glad that, in fact, the weakest members of this country are going to have people. I am very much in touch with the demographic fund, even perhaps because of the fact that, of course, the funds will have to be taken somewhere. Today, we have heard about political dialogue and social dialogue and, for example, in the demographic fund, it has been very difficult to say that the coalition does not conduct political dialogue, that it does not conduct social dialogue and so on. But I strongly doubt that, see, in this case, it is clear and clear that this matter works, that the coalition and the opposition can act, that they complement each other and that if we talk about some things that we can help people and are good, we can work together and connect the matter. I will not mention passenger traffic here, because I think it does not belong here, but I may also repeat the words of my colleague, my associate, Mr Reich, that young people must first enter the labour market – I very much agree – and let young people know that work is worth it. That's what we've been trying to do. I'll mention it myself, then I'll go back to the law, we tried in the PKP7, if you remember, the Law on Intervention Measures to Help Endear the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic tried to determine that the employer can grant to the employee who fulfils – meets! — the conditions for retirement, termination of the working relationship without stating a valid reason. This is an excellent example because jobs for young people will become vacant. I really don't get it. I have many colleagues, teachers of Italian, Spanish, in four, five primary schools teach 10, 15, 20 percent because there are no jobs for them, because there are people there who have the conditions for – after home – to retire. But that's another job. So I will only be here to refer to Mr Andre's words. I fully agree, young people to step into the labour market earlier, these are your words, and let young people know: work is worth it. That's all. I regret, however, the Constitutional Court's decision on the temporary non-implementation of these articles, but I think that it will eventually turn out correctly and that the matter will go as it should. In addition, the parent-work body coalition tabled an amendment that would provide 41% of the lowest pension base in 2021. As a result of this change, men with the lowest disability pensions will receive around €50 higher pension this year compared to last year. I think 50 Euros will know everyone more in their pocket here. Last year's lowest disability pension for men amounted to 331.1 euros. According to our proposal, it will amount to 383.6 euros with the already taken into account January harmonisation. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we advocate a fair and sufficient pension. Those who have worked their whole lives must then experience it with dignity and independence in the fall of life. I agree with that. We'll back it up. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u253	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u254	Replica, Mr. Kordish
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u255	Thank you. I was very obviously misunderstood. I will try to answer at all points where I have detected that I was misunderstood by Mr Montenegro from New Slovenia. First he tells me how to throw all the bureaucrats in the same basket, to do them wrong, to even insult them, to humiliate them, I don't know what else. Apparently, Mr. Montenegro is talking about things he doesn't even know. He doesn't know that social work centres are coming from the Ministry of Labour. These districts include how to interpret existing legislation. Given that his client New Slovenia holds the Ministry of Labour and is their Minister of Cygler King, Mr Chernigoj could have known that. Instead, he is very wise in his debate, but he only shows his ignorance. We asked a question about the financial implications in Levica. We don't do half written laws, just like you do every month at least one or two. 160 million are the financial consequences of the lowest pensions being raised. 90 for those lowest millions and 70 million for full-time pensions. Thirdly, the last time I coordinated with the right tribunal with the SDS and NSI on the issue of the settlement of injustices and the contact of pensioners was about a year ago, where it was agreed that we would have support for the amendment to intervene in sums and indemnities and that we would save the self-payers who, despite the changes in the legislation, continued to pay for their pension rights and then the legislation changed, but the state did not inform them, nor did they get the money back. SDS, NSI, I had the promised votes for this amendment and for the resolution of these pension injustices. There were no votes when the vote took place. Since then, I've only spoken to the SDS, NSI and the right tribune in front of the cameras, and let them say exactly what they think here, because behind closed doors, their word is not worthy of peeing nuts, even though that's where they should be aligned and that's where they could agree. To conclude: I address the poverty of pensioners, a serious, pressing social problem. People can't survive, I gave you one number, 246 euros was the absolute lowest pension in this country in December. That's not working. But there is a New Slovenia Member – what does he do? Not with the poverty of the pensioners. She's messing with me!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Apparently, they still want to discuss it, so I'm asking for a procedural one. Please, just please, tell me which procedure of the Rules of Procedure [[advertising from the hall]] I'd rather see [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You signed up. What? Make up your mind, Mr. Montenegro, what do you want? Have you signed up or been on a procedural basis? How? Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u257	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd just like you to warn Mr. Kordish that he used the replica because I don't know where I've been misunderstood right now. But I understand he wanted a debate, so thank you for the warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u258	Mr Member, I must tell you that the time of the replica is also common time, and Mr Kordish did not exceed three minutes, as permitted. However, Mr Kordiš could also apply to the debate and also discuss it. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? Right now, sir, I'm reopening the application. Here you go. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u259	Thank you. The very poverty of the pensioners is so terrible that I can repeat myself into infinity, and I would not feel like talking about it without a connection, but I will not go through our entire amendment again, I will just say the following. I would be very happy if you could identify the participating parliamentary groups and Members, who are still in the Chamber at this hour, to this end of our amendment, trying to address the poverty of pensioners and to some extent to raise the lowest pensions. We think that this amendment would adopt the entire National Assembly and do something very good. The absolute lowest pension, the income bottom of €442 – for the first time. Second, full-time pensions amount to 40 years of work, the lowest pension – the income bottom of EUR 613. Thirdly, all of these increases are also taken into account in the measurement of disability benefits, which are currently shamefully low, in the calculation of widow's and family's pensions. All these three points of our amendment should also apply to current pensioners and pensioners, not only to the future retirement of the elderly. I think it's the third time or the fourth time I've repeated what our amendment is about. I hope that at least this time Mr Chernigoj understands me, I hope you have understood me, and I hope that you will join the debate. I would like to defend this amendment of ours, and I would like to defend it and test it with possible arguments that see this solution as problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 4a, we will discuss them together. In the debate, I therefore give paragraphs 2 and 4a and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS, SMC and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups for a new Article 4.b. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE GOLDEN BEES RECEIVED IN THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u261	Good evening, Your Honor, Your Honor! Today we're talking about the golden bee prize. This is a bill regulating the golden bee award, which is awarded in the Republic of Slovenia to contribute to the preservation and protection of bees and other pollinators, and the procedure for proposing the award of this award. This proposed award is the highest national award for outstanding achievements in the protection of bees and other pollinators and for raising awareness of their importance for sustainable agriculture, food security, conservation of nature and its biodiversity, cultural heritage and human health. The recipient or recipient of the prize shall receive a cash prize and a document. The law also defines the procedure for proposing candidates for the award. A national of the Republic of Slovenia or a foreign national, legal person or other organisation established in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad or an international organisation may receive the award. Let me also stress that the proposed prize is intended primarily for the international space, and we also want the prize to be awarded to these international organisations in particular. The prize may only be awarded to the same person, organization or legal person once. Well, it's not a reward that we would give each year to the same, but it's only once that we can give a prize to one and the same reward. The award is awarded by the Committee for the Golden Bee Award. If the committee adopts more than 20 proposals for a prize, the chairman of the committee shall also appoint a committee to review all these proposals for a prize and then the committee shall decide on 20 proposals. The award for each year shall be awarded for the completion of the project from one of the following areas, three areas, which shall be repeated every three years. The first area is the promotion of bees and other pollinators, next year the prize for keeping bees and other pollinators will be awarded, and next year, the third year, the prize for research on bees and other pollinators, and then we go back to the first area and they follow. The law also defines the criteria for a decision on the recipient of the prize. Let me also mention that the prize will normally be awarded on the world day of bees, i.e. on 20 May, as a rule on 20 May, and that the award will be awarded by the committee and given by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. That's it, for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u263	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law as a working body at its 24th session. 2. 2021. Like today, the minister presented the purpose and purpose of the law. The legislative and legal service had specific comments on the three articles of the draft law, which were taken into account by the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. The representative of the Council of State stressed that they supported the bill. The representative of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia stressed that the Chamber welcomes and supports all activities that strengthen sustainable agriculture and also expresses its expectation that this project will in practice revive and achieve a significant reputation both at home and abroad. The representative of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia expressed the conviction that the proposal for a law would contribute to the additional recognition of Slovenia abroad. The Beekeeping Association expects us to obtain international projects in Slovenia in the field of bee conservation, nature and the environment, which we will also be able to apply usefully in Slovenia. In the debate, the members of the committee supported and expressed their opinion that the award of the state golden bee award would strengthen the importance of the world bee day and would also encourage the implementation of bees and other pollinators projects beyond the borders of Slovenia, and consequently affect climate change. The award of the golden bee award will promote the innovation and excellence of individuals and legal persons at home and around the world. At the same time, this is a great recognition and reward for all beekeepers who are and will contribute to the protection of bees and other pollinators. With regard to individual articles, the most debate was devoted to the provision of Article 5 which provides for the composition and the Chairman of the Committee for the award of the golden bee award, which is the Minister responsible for agriculture. Fear was expressed that the prize could be used for political purposes. Each time the Minister proposes to the members of the committee, he will assume his political responsibility and each time the opposition will be able to challenge the decisions of this committee. In addition, the vote of ministers as the 7th member of the committee may be a decisive language on the scale, thereby putting the Minister needlessly out of line. This would not be good for Slovenia or for a candidate who would have been chosen as a rewarder, and all of this could have significantly evaluated the importance of the prize. It was also feared that prizes would be awarded primarily to large beekeepers, who are also the largest honey producers and thus favoured those who produce more and also achieve better results on the market. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted them and adopted all the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats and Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u265	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We unanimously support the proposal for a law that brings or legalizes the award of the prize in the field of the promotion of the preservation and exploration of bees and other pollinators in the Social Democrats Group. We can say that humans and our future are also dependent on bees, we are all aware that without them there is no life and that without them there are no natural gifts that are so self-conscious to us. The proposal for world bee day, now being celebrated worldwide, came directly from Slovenia, from the former Slovenian government. The former Minister of Agriculture Mag. Dejan Židan and his team succeeded in proposing a world bee day. It is right that we mark such an important animal on which our future depends so much with a world day. Slovenians are not only known for their success in the idea of the world’s work of bees, we are also known for our beekeepers and beekeepers. We have a rich history and a tradition of beekeeping, which we are very proud of. It is not actually a village or a house in Slovenia, which would not have at least one beekeeper or beekeeper in its midst. The law, which will be supported today, is undoubtedly the result of the so-called golden bee award received by an individual, a legal person or an international organisation which will do the most in the field of bee conservation and research promotions and other pollinators. The award will be awarded by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the world day of bees, and the awarder will be chosen by a committee appointed and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Who will appoint and confirm the members of the expert committee, we have had concerns in our parliamentary group and at the meeting of the home working body, but this is certainly no reason not to support the law. We live in times that increasingly remind us that nature must not be taken for granted. Warnings, which are different forms, from storms all the way to droughts and bee plagues, are warnings that we must not overlook, because if we do so and in the direction of solving the environmental and climate crisis, we will do nothing, and today we do not accept the law in vain. The law that we have on the table today is a step in the direction we want, a step in the direction of solving the problems and problems that have arisen and are decisive about our existence and our future. The Group of Social Democrats, as has already been said, will unanimously support the Bill on the Golden Bee Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u267	Your Honor! Today we are considering the Golden Bee Award Bill, which aims to establish a system for awarding the highest national prize in the field of promotion and protection of bees. It is also intended to promote, maintain and protect bees and other pollinators, which are of paramount importance in ensuring food security, sustainable agriculture, biodiversity, environmental protection and cultural heritage, as well as indirectly the health of our people. On the proposal of the law, the President of the Republic of Slovenia will award each year, on the world day of bees, a golden bee award. The recipient of a prize which may be a domestic or foreign individual, or a legal person, or an international organisation, will receive a financial award and an appropriate charter. The awarder will be selected by the special committee of the Golden Bee Award Committee, which will be composed of Slovenian and foreign experts in this field. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that this award will promote and support innovation and excellence of individuals who have made an important contribution to the protection of bees and other pollinators. It will also promote awareness of their importance in relation to the work and outstanding achievements of individuals in the areas mentioned above. The first award of the golden bee award is planned in 2021, which is also the year of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre we believe that by granting this award we can promise to transfer Slovenian knowledge and technology and arrangements in the world of recognizable Slovenia as a green, healthy, proactive and innovative country. The aim of the Act is, last but not least, to retain the attention of the global public and to continue to coordinate, proactively act and promote the objectives of the project on World Bee Day. Beekeeping is an ecological, sustainable economy that is also essential for human survival. It is not just tradition and heritage, it is our culture and our pride. That is why we have also expressed our support for the proposal for the entry of beekeeping into Unesc's list of indescribable cultural heritage at the end of last year, because we believe that this agricultural sector has once played an important role in the design of our culture and in the first, genuine and sustainable way, and we must also make it possible for it to be in the future. I would like to point out that I come from a beekeeping family, so it is clear to me how much denial, effort, knowledge, resources and happiness is necessary for successful beekeeping. On the other hand, I am aware of how bees, these quiet, hardworking, indispensable companions of our lives return all of this to their crops and to the wider field of food production. I am also very proud that it was our country that, within the framework of the United Nations, proposed to declare it a world bee day on 20 May; and after three years of international efforts, the UN General Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution declaring it a world bee day on 20 May 2017. Success is the result of cooperation between the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. We must be aware that the adoption of the Resolution on the Universal Bee Day represents one of the greatest achievements of Slovenian diplomacy. The main purpose of the world bee day is to pay particular attention to raising the public’s awareness of the importance of bees and other pollinators. This should make an important contribution to addressing global problems in the transition to sustainable agriculture and to eliminating poverty, hunger and climate change in the world. In addition to the above, this day will also make an important contribution to the promotion of Slovenia, Slovenian beekeeping and related Slovenian tourism. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will unanimously support the proposal for the Golden Bee Prize Act in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. To conclude, let us remain disciplined, adaptable, diligent and hardworking, such as our little bees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija, please. Wait a minute – disinfection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u269	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Thank you, ladies, who always care that we have everything clean here, they are really good as bees when we're at bees. Humanity without bees and other pollinators on this planet would not survive. We are all aware of the importance that bees have to preserve life on this planet. Little does he realize that bees are not just one of many species of animals. After a poor hundred years of study, science is now almost united that bees are extremely intelligent beings. Bees have their own symbolic language, which is expressed by what is called a swinging dance. With this, one bee can communicate the distance, direction, and quality of the nectar it has found. Scientists have found that it is able to include even wind speeds in the account. Bees are still able to observe and imitate the behavior of other bees and even master basic mathematical concepts such as counting and counting. Yeah, bees can count and count. And most amazingly, they understand the concept of zero, and it's not only at the most basic level of zero as the absence of something, but at the numerical level. It's a concept that people have only understood for about 2,000 years. Bees have understood it for millions, probably even tens of millions of years. People have been walking around this planet for a good million years, bees have been on it for over 100 million years, and while people in just the last few thousand years, based on the invention of private property, have been able to bring this planet into a state where we are threatening the existence of millions of species and plant species and also our species, bees have created previously invisible ecosystems over millions of years. Ecosystems that not only pose a threat to bees but are pollinated to further developing and caring for the evolution of life; the life that people put on the ground by their actions and increasingly raise an ax over them; the life that is more powerful and beautiful than any other species filled with a bee. The importance of protection and study of bees is, in short, remarkable. Unfortunately, this fact prefers to be misused to promote some partial interests, rather than being aware of this being the basis of some broader social change and behaviour. The law that we are considering today confirms this and is nothing more than another statement or expression of the duality of the ruling policy. When environmental and environmental issues occur, they usually become quiet or do nothing in this direction. This is all the current ruling policy can, awareness and promotion to promote bee conservation, while the ruling coalition proposes a law on the Golden Bee Prize, the same coalition holds the power of the Minister of the Environment, who has set out to concrete as much an environment as possible to destabilize the habitats of certain species. In the meantime, this same coalition categorically rejects the ban on cracking in Petišovci to protect the nearer Biosphere area of Mura from its devastating consequences. While the Government and the ruling coalition are beating each other in the chest with the awareness law, you are unable to support the most general and legally non-binding resolutions on the declaration of the climate crisis in Slovenia. We are talking about the climate crisis, which also includes the crisis of the biosphere, a crisis in which as many as 26,000 species per year die out instead of 10. And she's only capable of awareness and promotion. Thus, in the absence of a national climate strategy, climate law and an ambitious national energy climate plan, the documents that should have been adopted long ago were expected only by this golden bee award law. In the light of all of this, this law is a mere farce, a government mockery of bees dying, and only the conclusion of another logistic story, which will not help to protect and preserve bees, so we will not support it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u271	Dear President! Dear Minister! Kranska bee is an indigenous species of bee in Slovenia, which has special protection since 2014 in the Resolution on the protection of cranberry. Bee crops such as honey, pollen, wax, propolis, breast milk and bee poison are used for food and health problems. Since the knowledge of beekeeping in Slovenia has been transferred from generation to generation over the centuries, beekeeping in Slovenia has a special place and is also of great economic importance. In order to be aware of the importance of bees for our planet, the United Nations declared World Bee Day 20 May, at the initiative of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2020. At global level, world bee day contributes significantly to raising awareness of the importance of bees and wild pollinators, also contributing to addressing global problems in the transition to sustainable agriculture and eliminating poverty and hunger in developing countries. The award of the golden bee prize, which we have before us today, continues our joint work and promotion and innovation of individuals and legal persons who contribute significantly to the protection of bees and other pollinators in ensuring food security, biodiversity, environmental protection, sustainable agriculture and indirectly human health. The golden bee prize will be awarded in one of three areas, which will be repeated every three years, in order: the first year of the promotion of bees and pollinators, the second year of keeping bees and other pollinators, and the third year of research on bees and other pollinators. The Commission will be represented internationally and the recipient of the prize can only receive this once. The award will be awarded by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on World Bee Day. With the award of the golden bee award also for the international consolidation of Slovenia's reputation as a beekeeping country, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia there are about 11,000 registered beekeepers – among them, I do not know if our colleague is registered, but there are so many, data – which in 15 beekeepers have about 208 000 bee families. The bill on the Golden Bee Award provides for a state award in the field of protection of bees and recognition of the role of bees. This prize is global, and it should have such a dimension. The prize will be awarded by the President of the Republic, the first to bee day on May 20th next year. In the budgets for 2021 and 2022, the Ministry of Agriculture has €40 000 reserved for this purpose. The prize will be awarded 7 per cent of this amount, the remainder will go towards the costs of the committee's operation, the award and the administrative costs. Good thing it's not over half. If the rewarder is one, it means that the golden bee will bring him 28,000 euros. The ambition of the proposer is that the golden bee award becomes more recognizable for the achievements in the field of bees as well as other pollinators at global level. At the same time, it wants to consolidate Slovenia's reputation as a beekeeping, green and biodiversity-based country by awarding this award. In the SAB Group, we support the promotion and support of the innovation and excellence of individuals and legal persons who have made a particularly important contribution to the protection and enhancement of awareness of the importance of bees and other pollinators in Slovenia or abroad. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill on the Golden Bee Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u275	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dearly beloved, let me begin by reminding you that seven years ago we adopted the Resolution on the Protection of the Cranium Bee, and we have already stressed the importance of this tiny creature in the Desus Group. The bee has been following us all our lives. Children are a symbol of kindness, safety and care for others, adults admire its effectiveness, organisation, social order and economy, and we learn to observe and think. We see the outstanding role of beekeeping in the fact that about 90 percent of the fruit and vegetables pollinate bees. The point is quite clear that to date no alternative to pollination has been identified. This is a warning given by Albert Einstein in 1949. I quote: “When the bee disappears from the face of the earth, man will survive for only four years, for when the bees are no longer pollinated, no more growth, no more animals, no more humans. ” [[…]] In the Desus Group, we stress that Slovenian beekeepers – more than 11,000 of them – are, our indigenous bee cranian gray and bee products enjoy a great reputation at world level. Kranska bee is one of the symbols of Slovenia and export product. Slovenian beekeepers are among the biggest innovators. Slovenian beekeeping has an enviable and rich tradition. More and more people are becoming aware of the importance of bees and their pollination, and more and more beekeeping is taking place in cities. Let us remind ourselves of another very important milestone in beekeeping, May 20, which has been marked since 2017 as world bee day and Slovenia deserves to be marked and proclaimed on World Day. The bill on the Golden Bee Award thus constitutes an upgrade of all measures taken so far in the development of beekeeping, establishing a legal basis for the award, which will be awarded once a year by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for outstanding achievements in this area. The prize is expected to be awarded on World Bee Day, which is 20 May each year. Members of the Desus Group will be unanimously supported by the bill. With all kinds of prizes from the various areas that we have in law, we believe that all those who strive to preserve and promote bees and make efforts to raise awareness of people, and in particular to encourage interest in beekeeping for our youngest. Because I also believe that we are not aware of the importance of the bee, let me finish with the following. The bee lives 30 to 70 days. During her short life she performs six different professions. For the first four days she cleans, from day 5 to day 11 she is a nurse, then works three days as a storekeeper. On the 14th day of her life, she finally becomes a bee builder; on the 18th day, she turns her role into a bee defender; and then, with her 20th day of her life, she becomes a bee picker. For one kilogram of honey, it has to process millions of flowers. If only one bee had done this, it would have made the journey equal to about seven times the size of the earth. So once again, a warning that is completely in place. When the bee disappears from the face of the earth, man will only survive for four years, because when the bee is gone, there is no pollination, no plants, no animals, no humans. On behalf of the Members of the Desus Group, I would like to express my special thanks to all beekeepers for the concern you are giving to bees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u277	Good evening to all of you! Your Honor! We're Slovenians. We're beekeepers. Beekeeping has a long tradition on our soil. Every 200 inhabitants of Slovenia are beekeepers. At the end of 2018, according to Slovenia, there were 11 000 beekeepers who were beekeeping with about 205,000 bee families. In 2014, the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia launched an initiative to become a world bee day on May 20th. The date of May 20 is of particular importance, since on this day in 1734 a pioneer of modern beekeeping was born and one of the greatest experts in the field at that time Anton Janša. In 2017, after more than three years of 20 May, the UN General Assembly declared itself a world bee day. The initiative was supported by all UN members, 115 countries co-signed. Beekeeping as an intangible cultural heritage puts Slovenian beekeeping at the top of the world. Slovenia can boast of the indigenous species of honeybee, the Cran bee, also known as Cranian gray, which is also the only protected indigenous bee in the European Union. The first bee was mentioned in 1879 when entomologist and beekeeper August Pollmann described the bees that he had received from Kranjska and named them that way, says the Cran bee. In 1879 we are also considered to be the anniversary of the birth of the Kranian bee. Slovenia was also among the first in the European Union to ban the use of certain pesticides that are dangerous to bees in 2011. Similarly, Slovenia can boast of strong developed beekeeping tourism or apiturism mainly because of its specialty, such as traditional pubs, uniquely painted pubic limbs as a special feature of Slovenian farmland of human culture, bee products, apperapia and so on. The female limbs and apeterapia are also recorded in the Unesco Register of Insubstantial Heritage. We are therefore of the opinion in the Slovenian National Party that Slovenia must take advantage of its potential, as beekeeping is an important part of our natural and cultural heritage and biodiversity. However, we do not agree with the fact that foreign citizens, legal persons or other organisations established abroad or international organisations can also receive prizes. In the Slovenian National Party, we therefore propose that the amount, that is EUR 40 000, should be allocated each year to the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, namely, for the purpose of assistance in beekeeping, to protect bees, to research the toxicity of various factors, to research new medicines and so on. For we know that bee families are subjected to a number of infectious diseases, among which the most economically important are ware and severe bee rot. In addition, we only talk about bees all the time, and no one thinks about the bumblebees that are dying out in Slovenia. There are only 35 species to be found in Slovenia, while the honey pickers are larger than the bees. However, there has also been doubts in our parliamentary group about the appropriateness of the provision of Article 5 which provides for the composition and the chairman of the award committee. The members of the committee are proposed for appointment by the Minister, who is not bound by the proposals, and the Minister, who is also the chairman of the Committee, can use the prize for political purposes, which we do not support in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u278	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, good evening! It could be said that bees are the source of life, so the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a law on the Golden Bee Award. Slovenia, which is responsible for the world bee day marked on May 20th, is strengthening its efforts to raise awareness of the importance of this endangered pollinator. The law establishes a system of awarding the highest national prize in the field of protection of bees and knowledge of the role of bees and other pollinators in ensuring the nutritional value, sustainability of agriculture, conservation of nature, biodiversity, cultural heritage and consequently human health. The award of the Golden Bee Award promotes and supports the innovation and excellence of individuals and legal persons who have made an important contribution to the protection of bees and other pollinators and to strengthening their awareness of their importance in relation to work, with the outstanding achievements of individuals and legal persons in the above-mentioned areas. The Golden Bee Award Act seeks to be established at the same level as other national awards such as Bloudkova and Prešeren Prize of the Republic of Slovenia, except that this would not only be limited to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but could also be awarded to foreign individuals and organisations on behalf of the State. The Golden Bee Award is awarded on behalf of the country in Slovenia, where every year it will be an opportunity to promote Slovenia, Slovenian beekeeping and its associated cultural heritage and tourism. The prize will normally be awarded on the world day of the bee in Slovenia on 20 May. It's supposed to be handed down by the president of the state. The goal of the Golden Bee Act itself is to keep the world public's attention and to continue to act in concerted pro-actively in pursuit of the goals of the World Bee Day project. According to the bill, the Republic of Slovenia will award each year a golden bee award for innovative projects at home and in the world for the promotion, preservation and protection of bees and other pollinators. At the same time, it is a great reward for all beekeepers and beekeepers and individuals who are and will make an important contribution to the protection of bees and other pollinators. I am happy and proud to be one of them, beekeepers and beekeepers, who we are advocating in the previously mentioned areas, and in particular to preserve our indigenous bee of corn bee. As a result, this law concerns all of us, so I hope that this law is confirmed by all Members. We will unanimously support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. With a beekeeping greeting, let him bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u281	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! Every single spoon of propolis tomorrow. I recommend it. By declaring the world’s bee day at the initiative of Slovenia, we have decided as a community not only that the protection of bees and pollinators is one of the highest national priorities, but also that our social activities will unconditionally reflect the protection of the environment and the coexistence of man with nature. The gold bee award is certainly a good way to strengthen national and international awareness of the role of bees and other pollinators in ensuring food security, sustainable agriculture, nature conservation, biodiversity and cultural heritage. The sum total of all this is old wisdom, which says that bee is a natural barometer of natural health, so at the same time with such projects, which are more or less meaningfully following the World Bee Day project, a higher political responsibility for managing advanced environmental and beekeeping policies, which will also set the mirror for other countries. We must not afford to question our true devotion to the protection of bees, which has been noble since the time of the professionally renowned Slovenian pioneers of modern beekeeping, by keeping the cranium gray and, last but not least, our leading role in the proclamation of the world bee day. Our active role and strong position in the conservation of biodiversity and the complete prohibition of synthetic pesticides in the near future should be self-sustaining, in particular in the light of the achievement of the objectives of sustainable and ecological development of agriculture. On the other hand, we also have a lot of work to do in regulating legislation, in the field of beekeeping as a sector. It is therefore extremely important that, when we all agree on the universal importance of bees and pollinators in Slovenian policy at the declaration level, we do not forget this when it comes to the issue of climate change and the negative effects of man on the environment. As the chair of the committee for the award of the golden bee award on the basis of a proposal for a law belongs to each minister or minister who also decides which of the nominated candidates for the seven-member committee for the award of the prize will be proposed to the Government for appointment, it does not constitute a negotiating marriage for irresponsible conduct and political bias in the award of prizes. In this way, the policy in the area of the award of the golden bee will only have to gain and not lose it, because given the international dimension of the award of the correctional exam. Let me conclude with the record of Janez Sumper, priest in Skokidol in Koroškem, today unfortunately Austria's Koroška, the beginners of Butcherje in the Slovenian Butcher Library in 1871. Yeah, you heard right, back in 1871. He wrote: “But the pastures in our places also decreased greatly. So many forests are cut, lawns or legumes in the fields processed. Chernilova and the solution, which gives me excellent pasture, is cut across the bed. In all of this, butcheroreia is still important and useful for agriculture and the national economy, because it dissuades us from many costs and greatly increases the property of the country." Exactly 150 years will come from this record and it would still hold some of it, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the LMŠ, of course, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, as part of the vote Wednesday, in accordance with the timing of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of land for the implementation of educational and research and development activities in the field of agriculture and agriculture. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u283	Vice President, thank you very much. Your Honor! Yeah, what kind of honey spoon would you like, I have to say I was tested yesterday afternoon. No panic, I'm negative for the crown, spring cold, nothing special, at least I hope so. The purpose of this Act is to ensure that public education and public research institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and which carry out publicly applicable secondary, higher education and higher education programmes and research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, are managed — not owned, managed — by agricultural or forest land to the extent they need to carry out their basic activities, i.e. research and educational activities. They will receive the most management under this law, or we propose, by this law, that they obtain as much agricultural or forestry land as the Minister responsible for education and science will provide for management, in agreement with the Minister responsible for agriculture, on a proposal from the Commission, which will set quotas. The quotas will be determined on the basis of the criteria laid down in Article 7 as well. Public institutions will only be able to acquire those lands where no lease is established, this law is without prejudice to existing leases, and this law will not result in the loss of this lease by anyone who is today a tenant of any land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, only those land that will be purchased again or where the lease relationship will be terminated in accordance with the Law on Compliance or the Law on Agricultural Lands will be available. Public institutions will be able to acquire land within a range of up to 15 kilometres from the headquarters of a public educational institution or research institute on the basis of this law. For complexes that will be larger than 10 hectares, they will be able to obtain land in management up to 30 kilometres from the headquarters of the institution itself, but in the event that we are talking about some research institutions such as the Land Institute, the Agricultural Institute, which need their research fields outside those areas, these limitations do not apply at a distance. On the basis of preliminary estimates, we are talking about 600 hectares of additional agricultural land that public research and public education institutions are supposed to need to carry out their basic activities and about 500 hectares of forest areas. The key institutions or key institutions to provide land are the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Slovenian State Forests. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law as a working body at its 24th session. 2. 2021. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments on a number of articles of the bill, to which the drafter did not prepare amendments. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments which relate mainly to clarity of regulation and related legal certainty. The management of agricultural and forest land is already subject to systemic regulation and it is therefore essential to regulate the relationship between systemic and proposed solutions. The Legislative and Legal Service also made a comment on the Commission’s determination of the land quotas to be belonging to the individual operator. This committee is expected to consist of 10 members; each of the stakeholders would have one and two members. The reasons for such a distinction in the draft law are not clear, which raises the issue of unequal treatment. The representative of the Council of State stressed that they supported the bill. However, in the debate at the meeting of the Council of State, the issue of sanctioning inadequate land treatment in the management of public educational and public research institutions was raised in particular. The representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia warned that there is no prepared analysis of the situation, how much agricultural or forestry land the public institutions need and what will be the need for further action. It is also unclear what will happen if the number of students is reduced. He drew attention to illogicality in the event that a public institution that would otherwise receive a farm or forest land management would no longer implement a specific educational programme and the land would remain in management. The Chamber assesses that the proposed solution, when a public institution can acquire a land of ten and more hectares, is also more than 15 kilometres from the location of the establishment, as the distance is too large and is difficult to manage on such a surface. In the debate, the majority of the members of the committee supported the bill. The importance of practical education in the agricultural field was highlighted in particular. The belief is expressed that, both in education and research work, we will be able to establish a stable and advanced system of education that will provide adequate long-term support to the agricultural and forest sectors. As land will be managed by public educational and public research institutions, these land will certainly be processed, as this requires the learning process itself. A member of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that, although they did not object to the provision of agricultural and forestry land to public institutions, she raised the question whether it was necessary to adopt a specific law to regulate the right to manage these land or to achieve the same effects by amending the Law on Success and the Law on Slovenian National Forests. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u287	Your Honor! Today, we have a proposal for a law on land provision for the implementation of educational and research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, whereby public education and public research institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, and the implementation of publicly applicable secondary, higher education and higher education programmes in the field of agriculture and forestry, or research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, make it possible to manage agricultural or forest land to the extent necessary for them to carry out educational or research and development activities. We support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre because we are convinced that schools and other public institutions for the quality and smooth implementation of their educational and research programmes need legal regulation, the continuity of agricultural land and forests. The law itself provides that an individual public institution is entitled to a specific area of land or to a specific quota. This quota will be determined by the Minister of Education, in agreement with the Minister responsible for agriculture and forestry, on a proposal from the Special Commission, taking into account certain legal criteria. It is also important that public establishments of these lands should not be allowed to lease further, as otherwise they would deviate from the objectives and solutions of this law. As from the date of implementation of the proposed law, public institutions will become land managers owned by the Republic of Slovenia. However, if a public institution with agricultural or forestry land held in use or owned does not reach the quota of the land to which it is entitled, it will acquire land up to the quota from land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We are in favour of this in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, because we are confident that this measure will greatly help to continue to develop and to upgrade the educational process. Let me remind you that, although public institutions already have the right to free use of the land they need for education, this free use stems from contracts concluded with agricultural land managers or with the company Slovenian National Forests. Under the new law, these establishments will in fact become land managers, so they will no longer be leased. On the basis of the data obtained, the need for agricultural and forest land is growing due to the new ways and principles of education and research and the necessary skills of the participants in education. Among other things, we have 12 secondary schools in Slovenia from the biotechnical field with an important task of creating a learning population with educational and educational work that will successfully adapt to change and will also be successful on a small, many-time remote or hill farm for agriculture and forestry. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the compulsory component of the subjects of those secondary schools is also practical work training, which takes place year after year according to the needs for the training, competence and professional capacity of each student. In this type of education and training, students are included in the specific work tasks of each work process and are referred to as being completely independent in the performance of their duties. We are confident that this way students will prepare and become accustomed to performing professional tasks in a specific work process, which they will also carry out after completion of education. At the same time, we believe that the quality of practical work training requires sufficient reproducibility of individual tasks for each student, as only a repetition of work allows self-reliant students to work alone. For all these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on land provision for the implementation of educational and research and development activities in the area of agriculture and forestry in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u289	In Levica, we do not oppose the fact that public education and research institutions, the founder of which is a country and the implementation of research or public programmes for secondary, higher education or higher education in agriculture and forestry, are provided with state agricultural and forestry land for the implementation of these programmes. On the contrary, we support that. However, all these institutions of this land can be obtained today to carry out their activities. As of today, these establishments have leased 657 hectares of agricultural land from the Agricultural Land Fund; of which 419 hectares are leased free of charge. As of today, these institutions with the state-owned company Slovenian State Forests, SIDG, have a contract to carry out educational activities on 225 hectares of state forests. In short, public education and research institutions can already obtain and obtain the state-owned land they need to carry out their activities and in the same way as they have obtained these lands, they could also obtain additional land if the extent of their programmes so require. The law that we are considering today does not, in fact, allow for anything that would no longer be possible; that is, that public education and research institutions could obtain national agricultural and forest land to carry out their activities. What is really done with this law is that there is a perimeter around the rules that have already escaped, which allow these lands to be acquired today. And otherwise, it's determined who's going to get the money out of the management of these lands. In short, this law allows the current authorities to freely share state land and state money between state companies and institutions, in spite of the current rules. Despite the long introduction in which we can take a closer look at the history of school agricultural land in Slovenia, the proposal for a law at one point does not explain why the adoption of this law is really necessary. Or, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly says, I quote, “remembering the proposed change of the operator in the light of the applicable legal arrangements for the management of agricultural and forestry land, although any derogation from the legal system must be justified, since on the basis of the creation of predictability and legal certainty, which are the fundamental principles of the rule of law, “– 2nd Article of the Constitution –” or it must be justified, as it only ensures a clear relationship to systemic regulation.” This is simply not the case in the bill. The Fund of Agricultural Lands, SIDGs, and public educational institutions are not by themselves some persons with some common interests, but primarily the interests of the people who run them. Therefore, we cannot get rid of the feeling that this is all about much more than just a noble goal to give public schools a public land where they can teach future generations in agriculture. Since land and money within interests, which have the most power in view of the current political constellation, is not well distributed in accordance with existing legislation, this lex specialis is needed today and under which the current government, on a proposal from the current minister, will be able to determine which land in the management of the SidDG fund is simply taken up and placed in the management of individual public education institutions. One of the largest recipients of these land will obviously be a public institution with which the current agricultural minister, who has been formally employed for some time in this institution, is in a very complicated way, as he himself has expressed himself. Once again, in Levica we do not object to public education and research institutions being made available to state agricultural and forest land for their activities. However, the derogation from the current regime proposed by this law, by which all these establishments can still obtain these lands, is completely unwarranted. Even now, public educational establishments can obtain agricultural land and forest land. That is why we will vote against the bill in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u291	Dear President! Dear Minister! Agriculture feeds us all. In Novi Slovenije, we wrote in the basic programme: “In education there is a need for closer integration of theory and practice, especially in secondary vocational and vocational education and at higher education level. Professional, vocational and secondary education plays an important role in the development of staff for the development of the economy, municipalities, landscapes and countries. All educational orientations lead to the goal, for this reason we support all directions and types of education." With the law before us today, the public educational and public research institution, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia and implements the agricultural and forestry programme, will be able to manage agricultural or forestry land for educational activity. The public authority shall have the right to manage up to a maximum of agricultural land as laid down by a decree adopted by the Minister responsible for education, in agreement with the Minister responsible for agriculture, on the basis of a committee to set quotas. The public service can only acquire those lands where no lease is established. Areas where a public institution can acquire land are: 15 kilometres away from the seat of a public institution or a unit of a public institution, 15 to 30 kilometres away from the seat of a public institution or a unit of a public institution, if the total area of additional land is at least 10 hectares. A public institution carrying out research or development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry will also be able to obtain land outside 15 or 30 kilometres of air distance from the seat of a public institution or unit of that public institution, if it agrees. It is estimated that public institutions need some 600 hectares of agricultural land to reach the quota. These lands will, of course, be gradually obtained. However, because of the importance of maintaining and transferring expertise, which are agricultural and forestry industries, and of course this transfer of experience to young generations, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister, respectable! The purpose of the Land Administration Act for the implementation of educational and research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry is to ensure that public educational and research institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, receive adequate land, agricultural or forestry management to the extent necessary to carry out educational or research and development activities. It is therefore a public institution that carries out secondary, higher or higher education or research and development activities in agriculture and forestry. Public institutions will receive as many agricultural or forestry land as the Minister responsible for education, science, in agreement with the Minister responsible for agriculture and forestry, on a proposal from the Commission for the establishment of quotas. The quotas will be determined on the basis of the criteria laid down by the law. It is estimated that 600 hectares of agricultural and 500 hectares of forest land will be total. As from the date of implementation of this Act, public establishments shall become land managers in their own Republic of Slovenia. In the SAB Group we welcome the law. Once allocated to these public land establishments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, we will provide them with sufficient land and forests needed to carry out educational and research activities and faster access to and management of them. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we should close at 10 a.m., and now I'm asking you five more, if you're ready to give your position, so much so that we can finish the point today. [[Yeah.]] There's no objection. Then let's move on. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Perhaps, in the context of the position of the Desus Group on the law under consideration, we would point out how important it seems to us that as many young people as possible decide on jobs related to agriculture, rural areas, food production, forestry and the like. It is therefore essential that young people be provided with an appropriate supportive environment in which they can learn. As in all areas, knowledge and innovation are essential in agriculture. Young people should therefore be provided with the best possible conditions for learning. We are also increasingly aware of the importance of quality and sufficient self-sustainment, and only with knowledge will we be able to compete successfully with mass-producing food. Fortunately, the pandemic did not break the food supply chain, but this could also happen. We have certainly come to realize how vulnerable the food system is. Today's law makes it possible for the public educational and public research institutes, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and the implementation of publicly applicable secondary, higher education and higher education programmes in the fields of agriculture and forestry or research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, to have the right to manage agricultural or forest land to the extent necessary to carry out their educational or research and development activities. It is important to stress that public institutions will only be able to acquire those agricultural lands where no lease is established. Therefore, the law is without prejudice to existing leases. Education institutions will be able to obtain only land that the fund will buy again, or from those leasers who will break the lease themselves. Educational institutions use agricultural and forest land for practical education and practical training and it is our job to ensure this. Finally, more European resolutions, such as villas to forks, biodiversity and the European Green Agreement, will bind us in a direction where we will need knowledge and innovation. Here we are committed to concrete and ambitious goals and green directions. In the Desus Group, we support the proposal of the law and we believe that the provision of land for educational purposes is a step in the right direction. However, there will certainly be additional steps to make the farmer's profession more attractive for young people first and to enable them to do the best possible conditions for education and then just to work on the farm. So in the Desus Group we will vote in favour and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u296	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u297	It's a good night again, all of it. The aim of the law before us is that public education and public research institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and which carry out publicly applicable educational programmes and research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, are given the management of agricultural and forest land for the purpose of educational, research and development activities. This is essential as such schools urgently need the continuity of agricultural land and forests for the quality of their educational programmes. Areas such as agriculture, forestry, horticulturalism and the like are specific areas that require urgent practical education and training. Now this is not only possible in classrooms as well as in cosmetics or hairdressers. Biotechnical areas need natural or real learning space, as it is only in this way that they can acquire quality practical knowledge, transfer knowledge into practice. This covers everything from the management of various mechanisms, hand tools and devices, tools, materials to participation in specific work processes, training and development of specific skills and competences of the profession, and not least until monitoring and evaluation. Education institutions should therefore make it necessary to provide the best conditions for education and for achieving quality learning outcomes and for developing responsibility for their own work. The law provides that public establishments will become land managers owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which they apply under a lease agreement with the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, contracts allowing the implementation of a public education programme in the field of forestry with SIDG or a concession contract for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia for educational purposes. The management will be provided with as much agricultural and forestry land as the Minister of Education and Science will prescribe, in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. On the parent’s working body, some raised the question of what would happen with regard to quotas issued if the institution decided to abolish the programme or if the number of entries fell. The state has to make sure this doesn't happen at all. Young people need to get closer to agriculture, as do other similar deficient professions. This can be achieved through attractive educational programmes, scholarships and awareness of the importance of self-care, environmental protection and the like. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you so much for your attention, and I wish you good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. Good evening. Quality education is the basis of any economic operator who, through knowledge and experience, successfully carries out profitable activities in his work area and is the foundation of modern society. A good transfer of knowledge in practice also requires practical learning and strengthening of theoretical knowledge. It is therefore necessary to develop a system in schools that will provide practical education, completion and proper implementation of tasks and real work. The need for agricultural land and forests has become attractive due to the new principles of education and the necessary skills and skills of the participants in education. For this reason, schools need the legal stability of agricultural land and forests for the quality and smooth implementation of their educational programmes. The proposed law allows the public educational and public research institutions – in Slovenia we have 20 such schools – to manage agricultural or forestry land to the extent necessary to carry out educational or research and development activities. The Public Office shall have the right under this Act to manage as much agricultural or forestry land as it will be determined by a decree adopted by the Minister responsible for Education and Science, in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on a proposal from the Commission for the establishment of quotas. As stated, once the law has been implemented, public institutions will become managers of the above-mentioned land. Since the law is aimed at providing practical education, complementing and properly carrying out tasks in real working environments, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u300	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u301	Thank you. For the future of Slovenian agriculture, it is extremely important to make the profession of farmer attractive and to encourage young people to do so also an innovative education system with a wide range of opportunities for practical training or have educational and research institutions in the management of agricultural and forest land to the extent necessary for the quality of their activities. Because work on the ground and practical experience are the most helpful to the knowledge that young people will be able to exploit by using it after they are actively employed in the agricultural sector in various fields. In the LMŠ, in particular, we want a stable and advanced system of management of agricultural land and forests by educational and research institutions to in some way encourage an even greater focus on environmentally responsible farming and forestry, following the legality of organic and co-natural agricultural practices and sustainable forest use. Last but not least, the current European strategic documents and directives on agriculture and forestry are aimed at this. The management of the land of educational and research institutions is also highly expected to introduce new technologies, which must offer support in an environmentally acceptable and sustainable manner to agriculture and forestry in the face of increasing climate change. Secondly, it is important that educational works are designed in a way that corresponds to the format of family farms in Slovenia or follows the special features of Slovenian farms, where students will seek, among other things, after the completion of their schooling, their business and career opportunities. The education system plays an important role in curbing the trend of extinguishing Slovenian farms. In particular, the issue of debirocratisation is becoming increasingly important in recent times, followed by the high density of regulations and their inconsistencies. On the basis of the fact that the law was already being drafted during the previous government period, the bill's proponents had sufficient time to avoid justified criticism of the Law-Legal Service and not to miss the opportunity to fulfil their commitment to clear rules already through the proposed law. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the law is not sufficiently clearly regulated and questionable in terms of legal certainty, as the applicant has not made sufficient efforts to regulate the relationship between the already existing system and the solutions and the proposed ones. Despite the fact that the Rule of Law and the Government remained on each other's coasts, the proposed solutions seek to strengthen educational and research institutions in the field of agriculture and forestry. That's why we're going to support the LMŠ marriage. Thank you very much. Good night and a safe journey home.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u302	Thank you very much, even for your good wishes. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u303	Dear Minister, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Agricultural schools were established in the area of today's Slovenia in 1872, as evidenced by the fact that the education system in agriculture has a long tradition. That the educational system in Slovenia is good and quality demonstrate the various achievements and achievements of our citizens and citizens both at home and abroad. Education in agriculture is certainly no exception. Every year we train a lot of individuals and individuals who later prove in their career that we are also in the field of agriculture and forestry at the world summit itself. The Ministry of Agriculture has introduced into the legislative process a law whose main objective is to enable public education and public research institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and the implementation of publicly applicable secondary, higher education and higher education programmes in the field of agriculture and forestry, or research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry, to the extent necessary to carry out educational or research and development activities. The law was created in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, because it was of interest that this area should also be regulated on their part. The support for the law was expressed by the State Council, and the legal and legal service had a number of concerns and reservations about the content. Even in the Group of Social Democrats, we have had some questions and concerns about the content itself and, with comments, we agree with the legislative and legal services on certain activities and on questionable legal certainty. The Ministry explained some questions and dilemmas in its explanation and the answer, but with the Legislative and Legal Service they remained on their side. The calls for agriculture and forestry certainly need a lot of practical training and education. We agree that this area is regulated at the legal level, but as we say, we remain skeptical about some of the solutions that are proposed. Calls from agriculture and forestry are becoming increasingly important, and we are also paying more and more attention to this. We also believe in the Group of Social Democrats that it is necessary to strengthen and support agricultural and forestry professions and education. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-02-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the 2nd item of the agenda, this is with the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund. Thank you very much. Good night and a safe journey home. The session was suspended by 2. MARCH 2021 at 22.17 p.m.
