ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko by 2 p.m., Gregor Židan, Dušan Verbič, Marijan Pojbič, Ivan Hršak and Franc Jurša. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly was announced by Mr Monika Gregorčič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY – INTERPLEMENTATION ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE CULTURE OF DR. VASKA SIMONITIJI. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first signed Matjaz Han. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer Matjaž to Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Good day and good bye! Dear Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, allow me to wish you good luck on this occasion at last night's holiday. On the eve of your 70th birthday, your colleagues and friends, as recorded in the ministry's publication, organized a meeting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Dear Mr. Secretary, mask yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	They have spoken of eminent personalities who I believe have spoken of you in surpluses, but here today, the distinguished minister, in the National Assembly, we will deal with your work with different, other eyes, of course with critical ones, and I believe that you will not like this very much, because criticism will further illuminate a series of your mistakes, and your attitude towards the area that has been entrusted to you as Minister. Confident as a man who should understand culture and art as something sacred, necessary, country-efficient, as the heart of the development of our country and society in the broadest sense of the word. Unfortunately, your view of culture is completely different from that. Your view from heights, distances, without dialogue, without cooperation, as if you were enough and you are no longer the area people are really interested in. The fact is, the Minister-General, that culture was left without a key interlocutor when it needed it most. She's lost you, a minister who should be fighting for culture, for their rights, for culture, for her existence. Regrettably, the general public has read your online publication, asking whether all artists are top-notch and which of them deserves to pay their contributions. You wrote down, quote: “Number by mine of this privileged may not be justified. I will demand that the criteria be taken into account more consistently, maybe we will also sharpen them a little bit." Allow yourself, Minister, to declare this at a time when a large part of the workers in culture have lost their job opportunities, their creation opportunities, their performances. Thus, most culturers are more than ever literally living in a permafrost working environment and are literally fighting in the current situation for survival, for bread and for how to work, how to create. Dear Minister! It seems as if we have lost contact with reality, with artists, with artists, with desperate people waiting for your help, with your vision, where and how from this deep crisis. Culture is after a year of epidemics on your knees, and you're the quietest. You leave Parliament meetings, you do not respond to invitations to dialogue, instead of dialogue, you encourage discourse that culturers are parasites and mammals on a state nursery, which is extremely inappropriate and insulting. In your responses to many calls you prefer to write about fraudsters and charlatans, for which there will be no place in our cultural space. And who are we to judge who you are, your esteemed minister, to judge? During this time I hear from you many times “and the victims will, too many self-employed NGOs, not all will survive.” This is a difficult and force of criminal opinion. A third of all workers and workers are self-employed in culture. For comparison in other industries, this is an average of about 10 percent. In a living culture where NGOs and self-employed people work mostly in culture, this number is much higher. 70 per cent of workers and cultural workers are self-employed, have an associated right to pay contributions, even though before the epidemic a quarter of them lived below the poverty threshold. Dear Minister! By denying the most vulnerable segment of culture and denying its involvement in a transparent dialogue, you have proved that you are not acting in the public interest and are not acting in the welfare of Slovenian culture, whose existence is never self-evident. It is no wonder, therefore, that you have lost all the confidence of the professional and interested public and the legitimacy to carry out the duties of Minister of Culture established by the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other laws. Your responsibility for the mistakes you've made is great. You have acted ineffectively to limit and eliminate the consequences of the complete blockade of work and the provision of cultural services due to restrictive measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic. You are responsible for attacks on freedom and independence of journalistic work and the attempt to limit the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA. You are responsible for halting the payment of funds for the work already done in the field of film and film production. You are responsible for the political withdrawal of the status of self-employed in culture, and you are responsible for the non-payment of social contributions from self-employed in culture. There's a lot of mistakes, Mr. Secretary, there's too many mistakes! At the same time, we cannot and must not pass the attacks on freedom and independence of the work of purpose and the attempt to limit the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA. Slovenia, with the arrival of your government, a respected minister, and your taking responsibility for the media area, has been on the infamous lists of countries that have gravely interfered with media freedom. For the few days of all relevant international organisations in the field of freedom of expression, European journalistic associations, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and, of course, the European Commission. You respond to this fact in your style and your defence, which you have already presented to the public on several occasions, is nicely said, manipulative and underestimating. Inadmissible crackdown on RTV Slovenia and the Slovenian Press Agency, which you took last summer, fortunately, at least so far failed legal proposals, with the aim of financial exhaustion and political subordination. Needless to say, in these times, it is these two media organisations that carry out public service and are committed to the highest standards of professionalism that we need. In those days when the Government of which you are a member of the Slovenian media system, Minister Simoniti, is shamelessly brought to STA, I ask you whether you have ever advocated this important backbone of the Slovenian media system and tried to defend its vital and legal support for institutional independence. Have you done anything and at any time to stop the unilateral and unheard of pressure of the Government's Communications Office, which willfully and through laws or perhaps even with your help prevent the financing of the public service of the STA? You didn't! Especially pandemics and a few months before the Presidency of the European Union, the whole Government is playing with the Slovenian Press Agency; the one that has been building for three decades together with this country, together with our country, together with the country of all of us, providing it with information autonomy during the most critical periods of our existence. Like the STA, respected, you probably want to turn public RTV Slovenia into your own media trumpet. Will we continue to fill in the columns of the international press, which recognises in us the representation of another country and warns against spreading this toxic influence across borders, just before the presidency? Let me mention the example of a self-employed person in culture, Zlatko is his name, a prominent case in public. The status of payment of the contribution has been obtained by 1. 8. 2017 and shall be valid until 31. Seven. 2022. The Ministry of Culture sent him a decision to deprive him of the status of self-employed in culture. In this particular case, the well-respected minister experienced a judicial epilogue. Once again, as Minister, you have made a decision on your own initiative and unlawfully, and this, in the course of the proceedings, deprives you of the status of self-employed in culture by paying contributions. It was also confirmed that you, the Minister of Culture, acted contrary to the public interest, as defined in the field and its competences by the normative acts, thereby permanently losing the confidence of Slovenian cultural and cultural people. Allow me to quote you again at the end of this debate, I am talking about the Minister for Culture. “The words of the interpretation submitted indicate the level of political communication, confusion, violence against Slovenian language, substantive weakness, the intertwining of non-truths and the modest mental effort of the proponents to compose interpretation.” Ma, dear Minister of Culture, when you run out of power of argument, you act with an argument of power, you demean, you deceive in the interpretation of statistics, without conscience and morale, you threaten by acting and unlawfully delay the issuance of a decision by a self-employed person in culture. In this second term, you do not act as one who loves culture, as one who understands this area, as one who would like to do something useful for this area, something good, something appropriate. On the contrary, you are working in a way that destroys as many good things as possible in culture and impresses culturers into the consciousness of people as if they were in want of nothing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Slovenian public! The silence of culture represents one of the most difficult moments in Slovenian history, something that the generations before us have sworn to never happen again. And yet he did. It is only this time that the occupying army, which would burn Slovenian books, shut down Slovenian theatres or ban the Slovenian word. This time, respected colleagues and colleagues, the silence of culture has been established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself; and consciously and purposely because it does not tolerate criticism because it does not understand that despite the extraordinary crisis the world has not ceased to spin, because it does not understand that we must live on because it does not understand that without culture it is not our country, not only 8 February, but every single day. Dear Minister, I don't expect you to gain the strength and dignity of retreat. However, I sincerely ask you, dear colleagues, not to forget today, when voting, why the Slovenian state was elected, why the Slovenian word was preserved. Power of language and culture! Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the interpretation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	Colleagues and colleagues, all present, media representatives and everyone accompanying us, good morning! Today's going to be a long day, and it's going to drag on to the next morning. In particular, my greeting goes to all those who are professionally engaged in culture and art and live from it, because you tremble day by day for your destiny and the fate of your families. We're here on your behalf today. I also welcome all the users of culture and art who dream of the day when everything will be old again and will be able to live with culture and with it, because life without performances, concerts, exhibitions is truly empty and subordinated only to huge and basic survival. Last but not least, I welcome Mr Simoniti, who is currently serving as Minister of Culture in the sincere hope that he will endure with us to the end, as almost 18 hours of debate on his responsibility have been announced. I sincerely hope he won't leave us because he won't love to listen anymore. Yesterday you celebrated your 70th birthday, and I'm joining the congrats on the round anniversary. At the beginning of the week, Mr Dežman and his colleagues celebrated you, and today we will have to face criticism and facts. Subjective and objective political responsibility of the Minister of Culture, acting contrary to public interest, as defined in the area of competence, will have to be adopted, in order to permanently lose the confidence of the professional and interested public and the legitimacy to carry out the mandate of the Minister of Culture established by the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other regulations. Sometimes we hear from citizens that interpolation is pointless if we don't have a majority guaranteed, but that's not true. We give you a unique opportunity to look at all the arrogance of the ruling class in the hope that this time we will get enough votes to remove the most harmful cultural minister in the history of Slovenia. This is not about left, right or central policy, it is about a common national being, with which we should not play so irresponsiblely, because it is culture and cultural identity that is based, legitimizes and famous as a bearer, historically conditioned state-owned substance, which is now easily denied by state officials, vehemently maligned and equaled by encroachment and by suction of state mangers. Who gives you the right to beat and destroy our culture, art, cultural creators, cultural workers, artists and artists, literature, theatre, film, music, dance and art? To destroy our sanctuary or as a real corrupt and local mayor in Cankarjev's deterioration in the Shentflorian valley: “Our nation has lived without art until now, and it will be a post.” But that was at other times when we had not yet had our own country and were slaves without our own language and culture. There's been a lot of casualties that we can have all of these today. Language and culture are the driving and emancipating forces of our history, survival and existence in the present. Where would you be today without Primož Trubar, Francet Prešerna, Ivana Kobilice, Ivan Cankar, Happy Kosovela, Karl Destručnik Kajuh, Matthew Bor, Grohar, Jame, Plečnik? Infinitely, we could list the outstanding achievements all the way back, and even today we have top artists who are our ambassadors, because they have raised their voices about us all over the world. We're not gonna let you fight all this today. Culture is in itself a value that has no power and no political regime but humanity as such. You don't have any sacred rights over culture and cultural life. The Minister's mandate, and this crisis, does not give you the right to usurp it, to destroy, to destroy, to demolish, to humiliate, to endanger, to impoverish, to erase, to abolish, to prosecute, to manipulate. On the contrary! The mandate gives you only the right and duty of the protector and the guardian of culture. It's a real shame that you don't realize this and that you're screaming at the responsibility and weight of your own oath as minister. I was wondering if the oath might have been a fake and just a pretense. On 13 March 2020, at the 15th urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture, you presented to Members and Members your cultural policy proposals for the resolution of the most affected sector in the culture, on the basis of which you were entrusted with the management of the ministry, and in the following words, allow me to quote you: "In the future, the position of culture must not deteriorate and no activity supported by the Ministry of Culture should go back. An analysis of the area of self-employed people in culture showed that this group is in a poor material and social situation and shows many signs of inequality, signs of extreme poverty. We will pay attention to this and, on the basis of further analyses, propose ways for a fair and self-employed longer-term better regulation of this area. There will be an urgent need to start a dialogue, which is already taking place at the Ministry, which will lead to an integrated solution to the status of self-employed creators in culture." Today, the picture is completely different. Since the beginning of his term of office, the Minister of Culture has not established a dialogue with NGOs and the self-employed in culture. To date, no dialogue groups have been formed for permanent dialogue with NGOs and the self-employed in culture. Since last March, when the Minister took office, civil society professional organisations have called on the Minister to establish an inclusive and transparent dialogue. However, the Ministry of Culture's responses go in the direction of denial or unrealistic, even demeaning, proposals. The Minister does not have any sensitivity to the particular circumstances of the increased vulnerability of self-employed in culture, which is generally disregarded, as is also evidenced by the apparent ignorance of these in all anti-Korona laws so far. More than a third of self-employed people in culture live on the threshold of poverty. A lot of warnings to the minister are a call from a screamer in the desert. A few hundred organisations and individuals active in the field of culture and creativity sent a letter to the Minister of Culture on September 21st last year, laying down seven urgent requirements. The culturers concluded the letter with a call to the minister, citing: "Dear Minister Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Slovenian culture is in serious trouble. You're not guilty of everything, but the Ministry, under your leadership, is not responding properly, even harmfully. It's high time you went to work, listen to the experts, and start solving the situation. Finally start acting as Minister and Protector of Culture in Slovenia, otherwise step down.« This was last September, we are now in the new spring – yes, what kind of derogation? By amending the rules and regulations, by launching Esdesian personnel through the central cultural institutions and by exasperating all disloyal cultures, the Minister is strengthening his power even more and more. I take their call from this place: back off! Save yourself, Slovenian culture and all of us. Mr. Minister, do you even realize the misery and shame you're causing? Are you aware of this government's own devaluation and dissension in history? Why did your response to the interpolation in which you really invited yourself to the defense come under the auspices of the National Assembly? Don't the public, cultural creators and cultural users deserve to know why your arguments need to be hidden from and from whom? Who are you afraid of? Maybe the truth? Right now, when Slovenian culture bloodyly needs a dedicated, determined minister with vision, energy and competences, I have a hungry official with no will and ideas who hides his own power behind ignorance and cynicism, behind the mockery of culture, culture and people. At all meetings of the National Assembly or the Committee on Culture, in all public rhetoric from the Minister of the Branch, there is anti-cultural speech of hatred, sarcastic populism and pardonable insulting cynicism. The ministry of Vask Simoniti is seen as a total war against culture, a political rematch that attempts to destroy and build a monument to itself and its great leader and its regime as soon as possible. Centralisation of power, control and control of art and media, censorship of deviations, all of these are forms of a vision of cultural propaganda from some black times that we do not want to repeat. Even though you are also trying to instill doubts, sow intolerance and share culture in terms of law, injustice, ours, foreign, high, low, that is, human, cities with pre-enlightened perception of art, culture does not surrender. Even cultural workers, artists, artists, and designers don't surrender. Today, power with extreme aversion to a culture that does not understand it, because it is immeasurable, enlightened, progressive, avant-garde and metaphorical, because it is a product of thinking humanism and freedom, shows its truly ugly face. The epidemic has cut into the sphere of culture particularly sunny and merciless. In the midst of a severe health, social and economic crisis, cultural workers and creators have not only lost their job opportunities but also many without status. The most vulnerable group of cultural workers are self-employed at the time of the total deterioration of the functioning of cultural institutions and the impoverishment of cultural life to the edge of cultural silence. The self-employed in culture are trapped in a vicious circle – without status there is no work and without work there is no status. We have reached the point where the work and existence of culture depends on the will of the minister and the state bureaucratism, on the client ideology. It's become dangerous to tighten your tongue and express your criticism, even if it's completely mild. Our culture is high, and her workers are duped. The culture is suppressed and pushed into an ideological mold by the size of the ruling party. There is intimidation, increasing pressure, poverty and the suffering of culture and culture. I wonder if we may be stuck in a swamp, not a neoliberal one, but rather a feudal capitalism under the power of a feudal lord who shares in his own person and rules as if he is sitting on a bag of his money and giving it to the friendly. All opponents of the regime, culture, film, media will suffer and put others in their place, their legal and service, not necessarily quality, but ours. All this in the year when we mark the 30th anniversary of our own country and preside over the European Union! Today, ladies and gentlemen, we will talk about ten points of yours, the Minister's harmful and destructive action at the Ministry of Culture, which is under your leadership, Mr Simoniti, has become our sole purpose. A large house full of officials who don't serve their purpose under your command. The Ministry of Culture is standing there because of people you don't see and hear. Therefore, you are undoubtedly responsible for ineffective action to limit and eliminate the consequences of the complete blocking of work and the provision of cultural services due to restrictive measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic. You are responsible for attacks on freedom and independence of journalistic work and limiting the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA. You are responsible for halting the payment of funds for the work already done in the field of film and film production. You are responsible for the senseless distribution of tenants of premises at the location of Metelkova 6. You are responsible for the political withdrawal of the status of self-employed in culture, you are responsible for the non-payment of social contributions, you are responsible for the retrograde management of cultural policy and the suspension of social dialogue, you are responsible for political recruitment in public cultural institutions, you are responsible for non-compliance with the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the Church and you are responsible for the failure to prepare a national cultural programme. Each of these things for themselves is the reason for your resignation, and we've listed them as ten. That is why I call again on you to show country ownership and responsibility and to step down. That way, at least we will keep you in mind as someone who has not had a full circle of functions that has been proven unable to perform. But I am afraid that Mr Simonita is on a mission, so he will not make us happy with his resignation. Its mission is to completely destroy the cultural sector, Slovenian film, media, performance activities, the meeting industry, the non-governmental sector. The mission is not yet complete, but it is close, so his boss will not let him leave because he is doing an extremely dirty job for him. On us, Members and Members of Parliament, it is a historic task and a decision whether to allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. You received the Minister of Culture's reply to the interpretation on 25 February 2021. I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti, to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Nicely greeted! Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to thank both the speakers for their congratulations. Otherwise, let's get to the point. First of all, I would like to say that my two predecessors represent themselves as if they represent, of course, the entire Slovenian culture. I say that, of course, you do not represent it and that you represent part of some lobbying interests. Now for the answer. Interpellation on my work and responsibility, which is on 5. 2. 2021 In the National Assembly, 38 members and members of the National Assembly, with first-signed Matjaž Han, submitted to me, I see 10 points for irresponsible cultural behaviour. These are – as we have already heard – and I will repeat them again because I will then explain them – – the responsibility of the Minister for Ineffective Action in Restricting and Eliminating the Consequences of the Full Blocking of Work and the Implementation of Culture Services due to the Restrictive Measures against the Epidemic, the Covid-19 virus, the responsibility of the Minister for Attacks on Freedom and Independence of Journalism and attempts to limit the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA, the responsibility of the Minister for Preservation of Payments of Financial Resources for the work already done in the field of film and film production, the responsibility of the Minister for the Incomprehensible Operation of Tenants at the location of Metelkov 6, the responsibility of the Minister for Political Deprivation of the status of self-employed in culture, the responsibility of the Minister for the non-payment of the Ministry of Culture and the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. The text of the submitted interpolation shows the level of political communication, confusion and violence over Slovenian language, the content weakness, the interlacing of non-truths and the modest mental effort of the proposers to compose the interpolation. The text repeatedly reminds us of the level of dialogue that can be heard at many meetings of the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is good that this text will eventually become part of the archives of Slovenian parliamentary life, so that interested political analysts and historians can then evaluate both documents and have the opportunity to compare them and, above all, to analyse the abuse of the democratic interpolation institute. Interpellation should be a serious political act which the opposition serves in exceptional circumstances when there are major violations of the Constitution and laws. The proposed text and the act itself from this time's interpolation is a grave attack on the institution of parliamentary democracy. Without a doubt, this interpolation has reached the lowest threshold necessary so far for interpolation. I further reply in detail to the impressions of interpolation, but at the outset and at the very beginning, it is necessary to highlight the ecclatanal lie that is written in it, namely that the Ministry of Culture abolishes Radio Student. This is not a matter of ignorance or error, but rather of a consciously untruth in order to export it to a foreign political and media floor. Foreign media have repeatedly repeated this and a number of other lies that are created and disseminated by us. In the fact that even Western media in parliamentary democracies do not publish conflicting opinions and corrections with tradition, lies may eventually be known as truth. For a modest and short-term political gain, circles around interpolation writers are willing to sell even the reputation of our country. The privileges and privileged status of some individuals in Slovenian culture until the arrival of our government were a self-evident right and on this axiomatic assumption they have built a position of inviolability in the past. Every different view and cultural policy, and each government has to implement the policy that it promised before the elections and has given the voters the greatest support, and this bad year has sparked opposition and protests precisely because of the fact that in many areas it has interfered with these self-sustaining rights. The right holders are those who threaten the cultural field and contribute to cultural evaluation, and the Ministry of Culture is determined not to allow this kind of mentality to prevail in the Slovenian cultural space, and we will expand the space where a cultured spirit can develop, capable of learning real quality in culture and art. In Europe and the United States of America, culture has also become a status issue among the crowds at some point, but not in a way like us, when the central issue of status has become the status of self-employed in culture and the payment of contributions from the state budget. The constant street festivities with wall dyeing, barbaric vocabulary and increasingly serious threats to Ministry employees have experienced more or less open sympathy among the parties represented in Parliament by the signatories to this interpolation. These activities are due to the fear of losing the monopoly on culture and the complete domination in Slovenian society, which they managed to usurp during the independent state of Slovenia and in a different form also in the time of another country. Interpellation dates back to the time when we have reached the highest budget for culture for this year and next year, since we have a country of our own. In addition, we started to apply the so-called cultural euro this year. For culture in these years, when this coalition is in power, there are no bad times. Our cultural policy includes concern and assistance for a very wide range of quality, professional culture and art, as well as a very diverse activity of amateur culture. Care and assistance for the restoration of heritage and museum and archival activities, care and assistance to encourage the creative industry and all quality creators in the field of self-employed in culture. But there will be no room for fraud and charlatans who refer to culture. I fully reject the interpolation statements in all ten points because they are not based on actual facts and data and because in the further explanation provided by the 18-page discharge proposal, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaz Han has not proved that he would violate any legal and legal basis governing the field of culture in his work, act irresponsibly or act against the interests of the cultural field. On the contrary! In my work, I was aware of my responsibilities, obligations and duties, so I acted effectively both in relation to the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences in the cultural sector, as in all other areas of cultural life in the Republic of Slovenia, including the fact that I have provided a record budget for culture in the history of our country for 2021. I hereby declare that, for the first time, I have not acted in an ineffective manner to limit and eliminate the consequences of the afternoon blockage of work and the provision of cultural services due to restrictive measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic. I have actively participated in the preparation of all intervention laws aimed at citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. However, the Ministry of Culture has been monitoring the situation in order to regularly prepare appropriate decisions on the functioning of the cultural sector in view of the current health situation in the country and to prepare all the proposals of those articles in the CAP that mitigated the effects of the pandemic specific to the cultural sector: monthly basic income, exemption from the payment of social rights for self-employed in culture, journalists, religious servants and so on. The Ministry has also been in constant dialogue with all stakeholders active in the field of culture and has coordinated with them the possibilities for holding events prior to the pandemic in 2020. It took into account any proposed programme changes or digital way of carrying out cultural events as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. Another time. I enabled and cared for the freedom and independence of the journalistic work and did not limit the independence and conditions of the work of the public service RTV and STA, as there is no such thing as, of course, there is also no evident evidence in the interpretation that he would intervene personally or with any other measure in the programme independence of the Radio Television of Slovenia or of the Slovenian Press Agency. On the contrary, we have added, or personally signed, more than €2 million per 100,000 for the regular operation of RTV Slovenia during the epidemic by approving the payment of intervention funds for the work of workers in emergency situations. Third time. As Minister, I did not hold back the payment of funds for the work already done in the field of film and film production, and I sought to resolve legal obstacles and procedural errors in the preparation of the payment documentation and the payment was carried out by the end of 2020. And he wasn't impressed in any way by this film business. Fourth time. I did not deposit a single tenant at the location of Metelkov 6, as all entities on the site are still staying or doing their job. As Minister of Culture, I have informed all the legal entities mentioned so far that the Ministry of Culture needs premises for the purposes of other cultural content and has sent a proposal for a concerted eviction from the premises. I have informed them that, otherwise, we will have to initiate appropriate eviction procedures, but that they will last up to one year, which means that they have the time to find suitable replacement spaces and therefore are not in any way located as falsely stated in the interpolation. However, I have initiated all appropriate procedures to ensure that these premises will be abandoned. Fifth. I did not take the status of a self-employed person in culture from any of them, as the criteria for obtaining or maintaining the status of self-employed in culture and the right to pay contributions by the State are clear. These criteria are purely professional and not political in nature, and the Minister of Culture is responsible for the professional services and the professional commission which, in their decision-making process, consistently respects and respects these criteria and is therefore responsible for the responsible conduct and compliance of the legal basis in the decision-making process and to examine in detail whether all the criteria or conditions for granting that status have been met. Six. The Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia pays social rights to self-employed people in culture who have acquired the right to pay contributions. At the same time, the interpretation does not specify on which specific cases of non-payment are to take place in the event of the act being read, so I cannot defend myself against flat-rate non-payments. Evidence of the regular payment of social rights allocated to self-employed persons in culture shall be maintained by the Ministry of Finance and shall be evident from regular remittances. It is not clear whether it is a matter of paying rights to those who have this right on the basis of a decision or for paying those who have acquired this right for the duration of the epidemic on the basis of accepted anti-Corona packages, as this is a different source of funding. It's a week. I do not run retrograde policies or have neglected social dialogue, because I personally held 103 meetings with various external cultural and cultural stakeholders during my mandate despite the epidemic, which means that I have listened to their current issues and dilemmas and have responded in a consistent and timely manner to the current state of Slovenian and wider European culture. It is true, however, that the current Minister of Culture, retrogradely, in turn, has to solve some of the very pressing cultural problems, since they have either not been resolved or have not been adequately resolved in the last 12 years since the end of my first term. For example, greater investment in cultural facilities, in cultural heritage, also, the establishment of, say, piete exhibitions in the Auschwitz Pavilion and similar. I am therefore solving all these matters actively, quickly, effectively, as reflected in the correspondence with other ministries of interest, appointed by the relevant sections and working groups of the cohesion negotiations, and in particular from the 2021 record budget, which was achieved by the cultural rebalance of the budget for 2021-2022 and in which, in addition to the increase, I have also managed to implement the funds under the adopted Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, which is the so-called cultural euro, which will provide an additional EUR 120 million to culture by 2027. Eight. I strongly reject the statement of political recruitment in public institutions, as I have appointed new or approved old directors in those public institutions where the term of office expired. The only exception is the Public Book Agency, where the former Minister of Mag has identified irregularities in the conduct of the Director. Zoran Poznic and it was only for the continuation of the procedure initiated by the previous management of the Ministry of Culture. All appointment procedures have been conducted transparently on the basis of calls for proposals, applications for candidates, interviews with the relevant committee, the acquisition of an advisory position of the public councils and the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the current acts in the public cultural institutions. However, these acts are very different and the conditions in the various acts are too scattered, to which the Ministry of Culture, in particular with regard to the appointment of members of the Councils in public institutions, has recently pointed out in its audit report the Court of Auditors, and therefore a procedure is under way to ensure that the acts establishing public institutions in the field of culture are as uniform as possible, and in particular their coordination with the applicable legal bases. Also, some acts unwisely included the possibility of candidateing postgraduate professionals, for example with a doctorate, since only university education professionals could apply for the post of Director, and not with at least university education. I am trying to eliminate such anomalies following the founding acts of public institutions. However, logically, they were to be written for those people who did not have adequate education or who were sufficient at the level to ensure even better quality work of such institutions. Nine. As Minister of Culture, I respect the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the Church and support the direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality before the law, intervention measures apply to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, i.e. religious servants. Intervention measures have involved all employed citizens and citizens, including all self-employed persons, so it would be more constitutionally disputed if only religious officials were excluded from the measures, especially since the Constitutional Court has repeatedly adopted the view that churches and religious communities have a position of common utility and that religious communities have an important social function. In view of the effectiveness of the fight against covid-19 in the first wave as well as in the second wave, the State has banned religious rituals and their implementation has also been limited in the interim period between the two waves of the epidemic and, as of 19 December 2020, there has been a significant decline in income for survival, social security and the functioning of their Chartered and generally beneficial activities. The measures of basic monthly income for religious officials and the right to payment of social security contributions are temporary, aimed at pardoning and remedying the consequences of the epidemic and are exclusively linked to the time of the outbreak. Ten years. I cannot accept the responsibility that the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture has not been adopted since 2017. The resolution on the national programme for culture 2018-2025 as a mandatory provision imposed by law was incorporated into the regulatory programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, where the deadline for its adoption was set until 15 December 2017. The obligation to adopt a new resolution therefore fell within the 2014-2018 mandate and there was a breach of this obligation, which means that the Minister of State was responsible for its non-admission. This is also confirmed by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under President Marjan Sarca, has transposed the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2020-2027 into its 2020 regulatory programme and the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2020-2027 to be adopted by deadline 15. 12. 2017. Therefore, it should be asked why these receptions did not occur and who represented the biggest obstacle, although they were left-wing governments, it was probably too radical for those former ministers to come forward with suggestions such as those made by impatient left-wing parties. The text of the interpolation sets out a large number of non-truths that are not based on actual facts, and the extremely offensive allegations of clerical populism are also unfounded, that the Minister has been carrying out destructive cultural maneuvers since the beginning of the function. Among other things, they state that any critical thought is discredited in the general public, both through the pierars of the ministry and through the SDS client media. In view of this, I reply that Slovenia and the international media also publish about 90 per cent of the negative communications on the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, and that claim is therefore not true. It's not real. It is clear from the media that those who want to do so have the media’s majority media space at their disposal as a criticism. The minimum standard of democracy, however, is that when criticized on the basis of falsehoods or lies, it is possible to defend false evidence against lies. In less than a one-year term, we had to respond with more than 50 demants to the publication in the domestic and foreign media due to the unpublished untruths, as evidenced by the fact that this is not a random mistake or an unwitting error in publishing messages about our work, but a systematicly organised political pursuit against the government and the ministry, and from such a quantity of negative information, it is more than obvious that it is not only a criticism of the ministry, but even a falsification of the facts about our work on the stand. In interpolation, they also point out that anticultural speech, hatred, sarcasm, and pardoning is an offensive cynicism. Without a single specific indication, therefore, I find hate speech and cynicism obvious, while under the text of the interpretation, under the text of the interpretation, the signed Members allowed themselves to express their discredits, personally to me and to the Government in which I participate as a minister. We'll probably talk a lot about this today or tomorrow about what you've been saying here. I think we're going to clear this ideological nonsense up here in a very clear and unrelenting way, with labels and tell you who it is. The text also states that the Minister despises creativity, creativity, intelligence, advanced thought, a critical mind and a free spirit. Given what you're reading to me, you're putting yourself in a position to know what creativity, creativity, intelligence, advanced thought, critical mind and free spirit are, and I'm not. Of course, I will not argue with you about this, but I certainly say that all of these things have been avoided in the great bow, because as many people in the interpolation you are not offering any suggestions, how and what to arrange, how to resolve, evaluate, it is important to note that certain criteria are nevertheless to be respected. Of course, one of them is the disproportionateity between the creation of certain financial, spatial and working conditions for the operation of a particular sector on the one hand and between the programme performance and the quality of the content arising under such amended conditions on the other. It was precisely because of the inherent dependence between the two parameters that I, as Minister of Culture, despite the covid-19 pandemic, sought to achieve the greatest possible realization already during the previous government of the adopted 2020 budget and encouraged the acquisition of additional funds for cultural activities in 2021. In the future, the situation of culture must not deteriorate, and no activity supported by the Ministry of Culture must go back, I said at my presentation before I took part in this ministry and, of course, I am following it. Applicants also say that culture is being pushed to the brink, to the state of paralysis, that the ruling party is acting in such a way as to threaten with deprivation of funding by extermination, extermination and eradication. In view of this, I can reply that there is not a single source of data in all the statements, nor a source to which express economic and social-oriented analyses on the situation of Slovenian culture should be based. Only flat-rate evaluations, empty silent speech, and in fact culture from the point of view of funding within the state budget is at the forefront. In 2020, who was deprived of funding? Whom have they starved, exterminated, and eradicated? Each word, each sentence in the above-mentioned statements contests the true facts and data for 2020/2021 on its own, because we acted immediately. We have provided with the 2020 budget the planned funding in the cultural sector for their programmes and operations and have more efficiently drawn cohesion funds for an overall of 83% more than in 2019. We were involved in the preparation of anti-Korona packages, which allowed the cultural sector to additionally draw up intervention funds in more than 68 million euros during the pandemic. We have provided a record budget for culture for 2021, which is a quarter larger than the budget planned by the previous government for 2021. We have implemented the Funding Act, as I mentioned earlier, the so-called cultural euro, which will allow for an additional 122 million EUR 600 000. We have provided funds for the start-up of the recovery and resilience plan of €87 million, which is twice as high as the European average. We have provided an opportunity for record investment in public institutions and have prepared, in fact, all that is necessary for the construction to begin. The construction of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, which is therefore important and probably not popular, the Museum of Slovenian Independence, the Centre Rotovž, the Murskosoba Unit Archive, the resolution of the spatial problem of the Historical Archive of Ljubljana, the Landscape Archive of Maribor, the beginning of the reconstruction of Drama Ljubljana and the castles of Turjak, Viltuš, Dornava and Negova, and of course we anticipated and anticipated the release of Metelkova 6 and the beginning of the construction of the Museum of Natural History. At the same time, I would say that the call for €2 million for cultural homes has just been concluded, which also makes it possible at a wider level in Slovenia to better carry out cultural activities. Well, if I finish. The answer to this interpolation — here I said only an extract — is, of course, more extensive and is almost ten times what is written in the text of the interpolation. A longer reply with detailed explanations was needed in order, for the first time, to be able, with all the facts, to reject all the flat-rate and populism readings in a reasoned manner, and for the second time, that those who would be willing to read, understand and understand that, as Minister, I work for the good of Slovenian culture. In the interests of Slovenian culture, it is not only a higher budget but, above all, an expression of its will not only to the Minister of Culture, but it is also the will and expression of the will of the entire Government, which is aware of the importance of what Slovenian culture has had in the past, when language and culture have played an extremely important role in the existence of the Slovenian people and the emergence of a state of their own, as well as in the future, when this is in fact very important that this national foundation is preserved in this globalised world. However, this interpolation can also be a positive action if the proponents and their entire circle of co-conspirators want to read all the answers and listen to sound arguments and the media will prefer to tell the general public the real facts instead of the fan pamphlets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	Dear Members, Members and all present! March 13, 2020, Vasko Simoniti: "I swear to respect constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia." Just a month after these words, we called an urgent meeting in the opposition because of an incident with an unacceptable and inappropriate dispatch that defamed most of Slovenian journalism and pointed out to the public the abuse of diplomatic correspondence. The media war continued. Thus, the state of culture began to deteriorate alarmingly with the new Minister of Culture Vasko Simoniti. At the beginning of the mandate, the Minister stressed that the situation of culture should not deteriorate in the future and that no activity supported by the Ministry of Culture should go back. All the Minister's promises have proved to be a farce, since in one year we have witnessed the management of the ministry, which, under the cover of efforts to promote culture, has actually joined cultural policy in accordance with the SDS's cultural programme. The opposition parties have made numerous observations of the poorer and harmful part of the current minister in 10 points and have entered the parliamentary procedure into the interpretation. Reasons for interpolation: the irresponsibility of the Minister for Ineffective Action in Restricting and Eliminating the Consequences of Full Blocking of Work and Providing Cultural Services through Restrictive Measures against Covid-19 Epidemics, Attacks on Freedom and Independence of Journalism, Attempts to Limit Independence and Conditions for the Work of the Public Service of RTV and STA, Financial Blockage in the Field of Film and Film Production, Insensual Operation of Metelkova Street 6, Political Deprivation of the Status of Self-Employed in Culture, Non-Payment of Social Contributions of Self-Employed Persons in Culture, Retrograde Management of Cultural Policy and Suspension of Social Dialogue, Political Recruitment in Public Cultural Institutions, Failure of the Constitutional Principle of the Church and the State, and Failure of the National Programme for Culture. Minister Simoniti's response to the interpretation is expected to be in his style. With this kind of under-appreciative rhetoric, the Minister participated in the Committees on Culture, where he reflected his contemptuous attitude towards the role of the National Assembly, us Members and ultimately culture. The conclusions adopted by the Committee on Culture are seen by the Minister as insurmountable. Unrealistic because the conclusions do not follow the principles of the government or, to be more precise, the SDS policy. You say, Minister, that the text of the interpretation will later serve as an analysis of the abuse of the democratic interpolation institute. No, Minister! If anything, analysts will ask themselves on the basis of the text why, despite your actions, you can continue to be a minister. In the SAB, we are aware that actors in the field of culture, film and other creative sectors are among the most vulnerable groups; groups that will be the worst affected by the outbreak of the new crown of the virus. Their doors were closed first, they had to cancel events and move them online, stop activities, and suffer huge losses. Since the cultural and creative sector is among the five most affected sectors during the pandemic, we have proposed cultural vouchers in the SAB, which the Government has not included in any of the anti-Korona packages. The Minister repeatedly reiterates that he has actively participated in the preparation of all intervention laws to limit the consequences of the complete blockade of work and the provision of cultural services at the time of the epidemic. Why, Minister, then by a number of institutions, national associations, public institutions, NGOs and almost 200 individuals have received a public letter stating that the cultural field during the outbreak of the virus has been further affected by your performance, your decisions, your failure to respect the profession and expertise, irresponsible management and could still be listed. In the SAB, we wanted to know how you would respond actively to all the obvious public letters. Your answer, Minister, suggests arrogance and contempt for the self-employed. You believe that the claim that employees in culture are at risk is offensive to other citizens and citizens. Why? Because you, Minister, consider the status of a culturer a privilege and not a right. In your reply, you stated that it was the culturers who received special measures in relation to other citizens. By preventing the work of self-employed persons and by stopping the decision to grant contributions, you have added to the uncertainty of the opinion of the expert committee of culturers. These are your special measures. Like you, Minister Simoniti, you have misjudged and rejected all evidence since the interpretation of 2006, when you have also led your department in an inefficient and harmful manner, and today you are firmly defending your work and responsibilities. All your statements, the insults that are typical of your style of expression, are a mirror of your work and not providing an encouraging environment for the development of culture and art. Among all those mentioned in your reply to the interpolation in the SAB, we are most annoyed to read the quote, “I have made it possible and cared for the freedom and independence of the journalistic work, and I have not restricted the independence and conditions for the work of the public service RTV and STA”. As early as July 2020, a draft amendment to the entire media legislation was drawn up at the Ministry of Culture in the interest of urgency and secrecy. The new RTV Slovenia Act provided for significant interventions in the financing and functioning of the public media service and the distribution of RTV contributions among other media. One of the major changes is the identification of the organizational unit Broadcaster and the liaison from the agency, resulting in the strengthening of TV activities New24TV and Planet TV. With the change in the media landscape, the government is taking a stand in the direction of taking control of the media and following the example of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of control over the mentality of his citizens. In the SAB party, we first pointed out hidden government plans that extensive changes in media legislation quickly take place over the summer, with only a five-day deadline for public debate. We then proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by requiring an urgent meeting, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia extend its announced five-day public hearing in a timely manner with the possibility of public participation. The administration of the government of Janez Janša in the media field has escalated to an extent where in addition to Hungary and Poland Europe is now talking about Slovenia. Government attempts to silence free media are also discussed with concern in the European Parliament, while our minister blindly follows only one agenda – the centralisation of the media. For the end of the day, about the STA. Under the law, the Government is obliged to provide adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the annual business plan of the State. The 7th Anti-Corona Act also provides that appropriations from the budget shall be provided for the public service, irrespective of whether the contract is concluded. According to the Minister, this provision does not refer to the implementation of the financing. The government, Ukoma Director Uroš Urbani and Minister Simoniti, despite their views from Brussels, insist and seek new excuses and delay with a view to the financial exhaustion of the STA. Decisions were also adopted on the Committee on Culture calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay the monthly remittances immediately. The Minister of State shall answer this question in order to enforce the implementation of decisions that maintain an unsustainable state. The poor situation in the Slovenian cultural and creative sector under the leadership of Minister Simoniti is worrying and we strongly support the interpretation of the Minister of Culture in the SAB. Without culture, there is no nation, there is no us, and there are no Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Yuri Lep will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, I wish everyone a nice day! New week, new interpretation against the prime minister of the current government. As Prime Minister Janez Janša, Dr. Vasko Simoniti performed during the time of the outbreak of the crown virus. Although its area did not stand in the front lines in the fight against the epidemic, it was burdened with various consequences after the first wave. This was felt most by those who worked in both the meeting industry and the cultural and creative sector. In the Desus Group, we will stop at three key elements in our position, which should make Minister Simoniti bear full responsibility and, of course, also the consequences: media legislation and interference with media independence, weakening dialogue with cultural and other individuals operating within the culture, the image of Slovenia in the European political floor and in the cultural and media space. Dr Simoniti met in the Desus Group in early July 2020 on the theme of the so-called media troika. In the presentation itself, we were told that media legislation would be the product of further coordination, as many of the obsolete issues within the current laws would be cleared. However, we had not already received an exact timeline in which the matter would come into the legislative procedure. Let me point out that just a few days later, we were extremely surprised when the media troika was presented and the media troika was presented for public hearing and only for a few days. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we immediately strongly protested against such a short time limit for examining legislation. Indeed, the proposed laws were by no means minor changes, but they were substantively extensive and extremely important innovations that would affect the entire media sector. Such a decision then turned out to be the right one. During the longer term of public treatment of media legislation, the interested public could examine the novel in detail and give their reasoned opinion. In our parliamentary group, unfortunately, we note that attempts to intervene in the independence of the media were soon repeated; from the letters of the members of the Government to Brussels, which to some extent also fell under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture, to aggressive actions against the various media and the final suspension of the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency. The Minister of Culture should take a firm stand on the side of the media and against the various messages that mark our country's reputation both on the European political floor and within the cultural and media space. In Desus, we advocate the full freedom and independence of the media and will not accept any activities that interfere with the right to freedom of expression. When the funding of the Slovenian Press Agency was cut short, we reacted sharply and critically in Desus. We are convinced that the Slovenian Press Agency fully fulfils its mission and respects the principles of independent and impartial press-agency information. By stopping the financing of an important public service and public accounting between representatives of the Government and the Slovenian Press Agency, we are doing irreparable damage to Slovenian media landscape. We must not forget, however, that the seventh package of measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2020 explicitly states that, irrespective of whether or not it has concluded a contract with the founder, the State budget for 2021 for the performance of the service must receive funds in accordance with the adopted STA business plan for 2021. That's what the law says. Here we must point out that the full blame for interrupting the financing of the STA is not only borne by the Minister but by several actors in the dispute; the Director of the STA, who should submit the required documents on the functioning of the STA to the founder within the statutory obligations, and Ukom as the representative of the Founder. In this dispute, Minister Simoniti should act as a mediator to calm both parties and prevent further exacerbations. The future of one of the most high-quality and impartial media and many jobs of high-quality journalists is threatened by such a dispute between the main actors. In dialogue with culturers and other cultural actors, it is essential to highlight the poverty of film and audiovisual production. We can understand the hardship caused by the unexpected costs after the outbreak of covid-19, but the work done must also be paid. Slovenian film is an excellent promotion of our country, and it also makes it possible to employ a large number of people. Therefore, the non-payment of funds to the creators who had already started implementing the projects as part of the final call for proposals was unacceptable. In the Desus Group, we stress that dialogue in reaching compromises is crucial. We understand that we will never be able to capture and help all individuals in times of such global crises, but this has been a weakening of dialogue by the Minister of Culture. We believe that the Minister in the field of industry meetings, in film and audiovisual production and in many other insurmountable members of culture could invest significantly more labour energy and thus do more with the other interlocutors. The Minister's lack of engagement and apparent conflict led to various disputes. With personal accounting and carelessness, Minister Simoniti has done a great deal of damage in the field of culture, and we believe that he must also bear the responsibility that comes with his position. In Desus we recognize the work done by Dr. Simoniti in the past and his contribution to the cultural landscape in Slovenia, but today he is here to defend us because of his actions and actions during his ministry. Members of the Desus Group will take their decision on the vote after the presentation of all the views of the groups and the debate that will follow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	How nice to meet you all! As far as this interpolation is concerned, for example, in the Bavarian Parliament in 1879, Professor Anselm Kugle Roth, the chairman of Westfalischewindspuckenstiefung, said it was Glockenspiel without bells. So it was kind of a flurry of interpretation, the purpose of which is nothing more than to throw away the Janša government, and put back those corifies that used to beat their pockets with money by the length and thread that gave money to those who were miles away from art, but were true believers, in the right parties, in the right direction of reflection and so on. Today, many things are evident to the Minister, but none of them stand. It was said for the STA. STA is some conglomerate from which it is difficult to get any relevant data, as usually data comes from the STA with one day or even more delay in our media space. There's another thing. Each organisation, in particular if it is the one established by the Government, must provide documentation to examine it, but not to hide it for such or other reasons. You'd think there was something weird back there and there's something weird back there. Why are they hiding this information? The director of the U.S.A., who's been there, as they say, for centuries, won't tell me where the money went, how the money was spent. In comparison of his salary with the salaries of journalists and journalists in the U.S., this is all very funny. The Minister is clearly being replaced by senior staff in cultural institutions. The modern gallery has been run by the director for almost 30 years. Same director. One wonders if it is a life-saving job. Who's the one who can stay there forever when they put him on the job? This was once when the party determined who must have been and was while he was alive. But these times are over. In art institutions too, people must be able to take positions, not politically fit people. There was talk of the National Museum of Slovenia, as you were replaced by the best director. In two mandates, this lady did nothing before destroying the Goren Museum, that it was deep in negative numbers, that she did nothing at the National Museum and was in fact the worst candidate. The first time she was elected, she was the worst, the second time she was confirmed, she was still the worst, but the policy demanded her and confirmed her. If we look ahead, this wisdom of our leadership in art, I'd say, institutions. In Maribor, for example, it would be – this year is the anniversary of Admiral Tegetthoff's death. This is certainly the greatest war strategy of the 19th century, a naval war strategist, which is recognized by the whole world. But, of course, the director of the gallery in Maribor is against the construction of a monument that once stood in Maribor, because Tegetthoff was a Mariborian. No, it can't be. I don't know what kind of monuments we'd be putting in! And that there is a lady in such a place who is not up to Slovenian history, who is not up to being marked, is damn sad, and it would be right for such people to be replaced. All right. That is why I expect the Minister to arrange and replace this first in the completion of this mandate, and then in the next term. Rumor has it that the minister has silenced independent media. As I know, the minister has never silenced New24TV, because it's an independent media. All the other media, work, RTV, Pop TV, I don't know what else, Diary, Evening, these are the dependent media. These are the media that depend on the former political structures that have been made and set up and owed to. So tell me if the minister has ever silenced these media. No, no, no. But these media have been using, I would say, spiel methods and they've pushed their left-wing friends, colleagues, lovers, lovers, and I don't know what else they've been pushing back in Europe. Like the system: I'll send you some documents, I'll write something, and you just translate it into your own language – or I'll translate it to you – and then send it back as an independent journalist. And when they send and publish outside, then our journalists, the same ones who wrote the basic product, publish it as a reaction to Europe. Please! It's been drinking water for a while, and now it's not anymore. Now most Slovenians know what is in the back and how this matter is served. We have some so-called independent RTV that employs a total of about 2 000 700 people. The BBC, which probably has more ratings, probably, I don't know if we'd ask RTV, they'd say that's not true, but the BBC has a smaller number of employees. I think there is another serious task for the Minister to clean up this shed of Auggie. I think it would be necessary to bring Ljubljana through that building to carry what is superfluous, what is bad, and all those branches and other covers. It is necessary to take a model in Greece. They had a similar case in Greece, and they settled it. Really in a slightly sharper way, but it's the only way to make things right there. It is said that self-employed people have lost money to not survive and so on; but, last year, 3,000,258 self-employed people in culture received every 5,000,832 Euros of social support. With many of these gentlemen serving alongside them, they have their own companies, their own societies and so on, and they do not pay any taxes. Fine. Of course, these people then circle around Parliament with bicycles, bells, twirls, print leaflets, print flyers and then spread it around, and there's something else. Why didn't anyone look into it? If we take this artistic fortune, Mr. Minister, you will have to slip, you will have to stumble very heavily on various institutions for the protection of cultural heritage, and so on, that what is now happening with Žičko karuzia will not happen. I looked at this work, and from some sacral object that was once the tip of European culture, there will be some victory with a moving roof, where they will probably be on the roof, the one that will climb, as it will suit someone, will probably change ads up and down from time to time. One day Coca-Cola will write up, one day it'll say Podravka and stuff like that. This architect who got this job, as they say without an invitation, and I think it will mean a pretty good intervention or not an intervention in, but a supplement in private pockets, because 2 million euros is money for which a lot of people would stretch. And this gentleman intends to make out of this building a view platform that will look at ruins in the yard and into a hill about 200 meters away. I don't know what they're gonna be looking at there. But of course, the project is interesting. For it will be written in the books on architectural heritage, but under the chapter of Brce in the theme of certain architects. He told me that they would use six powerful electric motors to lift and lower the roof. When I said what the purpose was, he said that when the roof was open, we would look into the sky. I said, go out on the lawn and look into the sky. Yeah, no, that's not an artistic impression. For the goat! And 2 million euros – puff, it'll work. Best thing, Mr. Secretary, is to stop them from considering what is and what is not. What's going on in there is terrible. And then they say, yes, the roof, the classic roof would be 200 tons. But the one with the electric motors is gonna be a little less or what do I know? But the truth is, they won't be able to write commercials up. I said, go see how the built church in the hospital is, which is a little lower down, this system, how it is in the middle of a little turk. And they looked at me, and they said, yes, yes, Austrian colleagues said it wasn't right, that they had badly repaired that church, and it wasn't what it was. I said, yeah, what are you working on? It's not in the plan. Yeah, and the drawings go on like that. I said, take the drawings, 200 years old, say, if you don't have any elders, do it after that. But I don't think they can make that wooden tour in the middle. I said, so go donkeys to Oxford, there are two cathedrals made the same way. Ah, no, but then the roof wouldn't move. And then we wouldn't look inside and look for stars at night and bats flying by. In short, terrible things happen. Mr Minister, I ask you to do this very nicely, from now on from this day until the end of your term of office, let this matter be settled. And there's something else. I understand that architects consider themselves artists, because this architect is also one of the artists, and this is probably his artistic installation that he will boast about. But do we really have to destroy everything? Do we really have to destroy the Slovenian cultural heritage that we already have so little or so? After all, let's see what's being sold. Slovenian cultural heritage goes abroad. But if there is a piece of Slovenian heritage at auction abroad, of course it is not for us to buy it out, because they don't give a damn about the galleries. I am talking, say, about the National Museum of Slovenia, where they haven't bought out practically any important stuff and there have been a lot of important things going on across the border. In Trieste there was an auction with pictures of Slovenian authors, I think they bought only two pictures instead of the country reaching out and saying that it would be redeemable. This is not the fault of the current Minister, this is the fault of the ministers who have not done so. So don't hang on to a minister of guilt he's not wearing. I think it's terrible what's going on. For example, also in the area of RTV, the availability of archives. If anyone wants to go to the archive, they have to let him, then he has to pay the fee, then he has to pay the recording, and then there are some other gentlemen who say yes, that's my copyright job, pay me that. But these gentlemen, who demand money, were on duty at RTV and they were their official obligations, and yet their previous cases allowed them to raise money here. You'll also have to fix that, Mr. Secretary. There's been a lot of squawking over the cleaning of the Horn and the Metelk. There were more than 20 NGOs on the Metelkova, some of whom also lacked the status of cultural activity and were still there. The state didn't charge them the premises they were in, the state paid them electricity, water, sewerage and everything, and they got the money. That's great! There are no such cases in Europe, and even less so in Asia, because in Asia, especially in China, we would have done it quickly. But with us, because one of them was dedicated, because from the left political options, extremely left-wing political options, they had ratings and they could do this. Of course, I don't understand how it is possible for a so-called culture, which some so-called culture, to increase, that this culture is against making a cultural monument there, a natural museum. I don't understand where this makes sense. It's not logical, of course, unless we're looking for a logic in that culture is not what would keep the Slovenian national being and our being, but that culture is that two of them get undressed in front of the Ministry of Culture, and I would say, if that girl at least looked good, I would say, "Fine, you've undressed nicely, and you've undressed yourself to the end to see something more." [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Comrade Jelinčič, please have a little culture of speech, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	It's not like we're going to do this kind of thing. It's not culture. It's also not a culture to win Prešeren's prize for a young woman who breast-feeds a dog. I think it's deviantism, not culture. It's definitely not a culture. I think that this needs to be pointed out and that such deviants should be prevented. Of course, such people receive the prize of the Prešeren Fund or even the Prešeren Prize! Fine, fine. The whole world is laughing at us, except for certain deviants, who are unfortunately many in the world. But on the other hand, if you ask any gallerykeeper, would you invite such an artist to your gallery – he is not. Because it looks, it smiles, it says, yes, thank God that such fools are not in our country, but that they are in Slovenia, and it goes on. Then, if we look at the Horn — correctly, the nest in which they found drugs, stolen goods, stolen bicycles, or some say borrowed from art projects, injection needles as much as you want. Probably the Tik factory in Kobarid would be happy if they were just picked up — one month’s production could be closed because of these. Then a whole bunch of squatters who lived inside. We're staying inside! In addition, various migrants were taken along and so on. It is right that this has collapsed and that something will be done that will have content and appearance. After all, Ljubljana is the capital of one country. And Ljubljana certainly is not the most beautiful place in the world, except for the one walking around the narrow center, but there it will see that the plates on the ground are not, say, from the mountain tonalite, but that they are imported from China, that they are already repenting that they are already falling apart; but well, this is already a debate for the Committee on the Economy and perhaps also for the environment and space. We have a whole number of different artists, of whom the best artists are those who have been celebrated abroad and who have had to go abroad because they were not conventionally prepared. But here I am not conventionally using the word to highlight some consistent direction, but I am conventionally linking it with the former political structure of the left direction, which is still extremely strong. Two Slovenian directors had to go abroad to Poland and Poland to Hollywood, where they appreciated them. They couldn't work with us. Emma Kugler, who has won a whole series of world-class awards, is on our side. But how they are, I don't know what they are. He writes a song like that that someone in the second grade of elementary school would write, and he says, "That's my feeling." I'm sorry that this feeling is at the level of a second grade student. But of course certain people at the Ministry grant him financial resources to issue this book and out of 500 printed copies of it 10 of them to their joints, of which two probably read it, and the others immediately throw it away, some put it in the library, and the other copies cut in the Vevče Paperhouse. This should also be settled. Finally, Mr. Minister, in 1992, when the Ministry was established, I think there were employees there, what I know, between 40 and 50 people. Today you have about 400 or more, as they say in the south, added institutions. [[…]] I think you're gonna have to clean up this thing and those people sitting in there from 1992 onward who go to work to wait for a pension and not work, you're gonna have to change. You will have to introduce your profession into your ministry, thank those who have done you harm and have done damage to Slovenian cultural wealth, heritage and surroundings since 1992. You're gonna have to do all this. You have a lot of work to do and know that you have the absolute support of the Slovenian National Party in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the sixth interpretation against the Good Year Minister of the Government, exactly from 13 March last year. The Signatories of Interpellation to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, report inadequate behaviour, ineffective action, attacks on the media and much more, as we hear virtually every day since the performance of the right-centre government. The attacks on the Prime Minister began before this was confirmed and continued on the ministers as soon as they occupied their seats and even before they did anything. The field of culture has always been very convenient for attacks, although this ministry is with the least means if we are looking at the whole budget. Nevertheless, there are actors, cultural workers, among the loudest. It doesn't save all the money. But this time, like 15 years ago, when the Ministry first led Dr. Vasko Simoniti, the budget for culture is record and evident that the Minister wants to destroy culture, inappropriate and far from reality. Last year, the Ministry of Culture provided additional funding of more than €68.5 million. In 2020, cohesion funds were paid more than 83 per cent compared to 2019. This year, investments have started under the cultural euro, which will provide an additional €120 million to the culture by 2027, just this year €9.3 million. For 2021, €238 million is allocated to culture, which is more than €47 million last year. It is a record, highest budget for culture in Slovenia alone. In addition, culture will receive an additional €87 million from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Let me remind you that for culture during SD Minister Dejan Prešič's time, there was EUR 162 million in the budget and EUR 172.8 million in the second SD Minister Zoran Poznic. So 70 million less for culture than was negotiated by SDS Minister Vasko Simoniti. In 2021, 238 million euros will be available for cultural and cultural developers. Never before in 30 years of history has the cultural budget been so high. The signatories to the Minister shall be informed of the ineffective action taken during the covid-19 epidemic and the blocking of work and the provision of cultural services. We were all unprepared in the middle of the epidemic, and we had to go through the protocols and decide on the measures. Nobody was prepared for this situation; not in Slovenia, Europe, not in the world. The epidemic has affected virtually all areas of our lives, and in the beginning this has virtually stopped, including cultural events, because at such events people gather, associate and it is an ideal place to spread the virus. Since cultural workers were unable to work, they were taken care of through PKP packages. Thus, all cultural institutions: museums, galleries, theatres, libraries and others received all the appropriations, regardless of whether they were closed and did not implement the planned programme. The Ministry provided funds for employees, although they were at home on hold, as was the case in all other sectors. No one in these institutions has lost their jobs at this time. After the first wave of the epidemic, Slovenia opened galleries, museums and libraries among the first. The funds for self-employed people in culture increased by €700,000 despite the pandemic. All self-employed in culture have also had the opportunity to use intervention funds on the basis of existing anti-Korona legislative packages for the duration of the epidemic, i.e. a monthly basic income of €700 per month, as well as the exercise of the right to freedom of payment of contributions. According to the data selected so far, self-employed people in culture have absorbed almost €7.9 million of monthly basic income. In view of the fact that all self-employed were involved in the measure, the Ministry of Culture in the PKP2 proposed to change the identification of lost income; in the original proposal, applicants had to prove lost profits compared to February 2020 and in the new proposal compared to the whole year 2019. Such a solution has been adopted by civil society associations of cultural people, as many cultural workers receive payments on tranches or on a project basis. The signatories are accused by the Minister for Attacks on Freedom and Independence of Journalism and an attempt to limit the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA. During the epidemic, the Ministry allocated 2.7 million euros to the media. RTV Slovenia has approved 2.1 million intervention funds for the work of workers in emergency situations. The STA shall be provided with adequate public service funding under the specific law, from the State budget under the annual contract concluded between the founder and the STA. On behalf of the founder, the financing contract shall be signed by the Office of the Government of Communications and shall also be responsible for its implementation. The complication is due to the will of the Director of the STA of Mr Veselinović, who does not wish to report or deliver the required documentation to the Communications Office in accordance with the contract. We discussed this at least two meetings of the Committee on Culture. We have taken binding conclusions that as soon as Ukom receives the requested documentation, the STA must provide the funds. That didn't happen. Director Veselinovich Ukoma does not recognise as a representative of the Government, even though he signed a contract with him, so he recognized it, as well as all those years when he received funds from Ukom for the public service. The Ministry of Culture has nothing to do with this, so there is another groundless observation. The signatories to the Minister also note the retention of the payment of funds for the work already done in the field of film and film production. Please remain silent, however, that the Government of Marjana Sharca has included cinemas, i.e. films, in programmes requiring the preparation of identification documents for the investment project and subject to the Public Procurement Act. This was adopted in 2019 on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Bertoncl, and this led to delays in the financing of the film, as selected films had to be added to the development project plan. We usually do this for circulars, hospitals, DSOs and the like, but the previous government has decided that this is how we will deal with movies. We had already warned in the SDS Group that there would be a problem, but we were not heard. Until the films or projects were included in the current Development Programme Plan 2020-2023, the Ministry of Culture as a financier could not carry out the payment process. The plot was then solved with PKP7. In the future, an illogical solution is needed to confirm that the films selected at the Slovenian Film Centre are subsequently confirmed by the government when they are listed in the NRP. Such arrangements were in force before the amendment adopted at the time of the government led by Marjan Sarec. Also for the Slovenian film, more resources are allocated in the budget for 2021 and we believe that in the future these funds will approach the number of EUR 8 million, as much as the most resources in the history of the Slovenian film intended for the film. And you will not believe this was in 2008, when the Ministry of Culture led Dr. Vasko Simoniti. At that time, €8 million was allocated to the Slovenian film. Then these funds were reduced under all the cultural ministers who were full of the mouth of culture. Now that Dr. Vasko Simoniti is again Minister, the funds for the Slovenian film are gradually rising. You will also report to the Minister the distribution of tenants of premises at the location of Metelkova 6. This is not a new thing, thought about by cultural ministers in front of Dr. Vasko Simoniti, for example, Minister Prešiček of SD, because in recent years a museum district has been formed here, where the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, part of the National Museum of Slovenia and the Museum of Contemporary Art. The quarter is expected to end with the Natural History Museum, for which the premises on Metelkov 6 are allocated, where this moment there are several tenants who are exempt from rent under the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, and more are illegally staying there. All of these NGOs received from the Ministry software funds, some worth millions of euros for their creation or operation. Thus, only 37.8 million euros have been received since 2009. So only non-governmental organisations on Metelkova 6 are almost as large as the budget is now increased. During this time, we allocated 31 million funds for student homes and 25 million funds for nursing homes. So 37.8 million euros for non-governmental organisations in Metelkova 6 in the last good ten years – significantly more than for student homes and significantly more than for the homes of older citizens. To the Minister, you see the political withdrawal of Zlatko Čordić's status, which turned out to have set up a society through which he was paid for his work and thus exceeded the limit on which he could have self-employed status in culture and the state pays him contributions. Svec Čordić broke into the national celebration and harassed journalists at protests. He pulled a camera out of one of his hands, harassed the director of the NIJZ and threatened the employees of the Ministry of Culture. Are these the cultural workers who deserve to pay their contributions from the country they're cheating on? Zlatan Čordić Zlatko closed the espé, which he had already opened as self-employed in culture in 2016, and opened the Society with the same name, the Council is beautiful, and used it to avoid an annual censorship that culturers cannot exceed if they want to be entitled to state contributions. Čordić, in his transaction account as self-employed, issued accounts only up to the amount of the non-profit price, that is 20 thousand 51.28 euros gross annually, all the other earnings recorded through his company. Thus it earned a good EUR 69 000 net in 2016, almost EUR 53 000 net in 2017 and EUR 41 000 600 net in 2019. And at the same time, the taxpayers paid him contributions; of course, also a number who did not earn as much in the whole year as he did. It's a proven fraud, and that's why he was deprived of his status. The status was envisaged under the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture as a prize for top artists performing marketable less interesting activities, but this has been born in recent years, as they have also received status for example for singers who otherwise serve well on the market. The number of self-employed people receiving social contributions from the state budget has increased enormously in recent years or decades. In 2016, there were 825 persons with paid contributions and at the end of 2020, 2 000 405 people were enrolled. The Ministry is required to verify that all those in possession of the status fulfil the conditions for doing so. It should also be said that only 13 applicants were rejected for contributions in 2020 and more were rejected in 2011; even 52, or between 20 and 40, respectively. The Minister is also denied social contributions to self-employed people in culture, which is not the case. To all those who fulfilled the conditions, contributions were paid within the time limits set for that purpose. Another clue, no evidence. You also report political recruitment to the minister in public cultural institutions, although the new directors are only where the term of office expired. A public competition with strict criteria and rules determining who may apply for this function has been held for each appointment. After the selection committee of the Ministry of Culture proposed to the minister the most suitable candidates, of course on the basis of competence, the minister always took into account her proposal. He gave priority to the candidate for whom he was objectively identified as the most qualified. In its audit report, the Court of Auditors pointed out that the conditions for candidateing between institutions differ too much, even irrationally exclude the possibility of candidates for postgraduate education, such as doctorates, since only university education candidates could apply to the post of Director so far, not with at least university education. Do we want the experts and the best in the executive seats or not? We will! That's why this government is changing. You are also referring to the retired director of Jane's Book Agency, who, because of her irregularity, wanted to suspend Minister Poznic and would have done so if the previous government had not fallen. It was a serious breach of the law, and the Ministry also accused her of it. You probably remember, because we've read a lot about this. This has been written to ministers and the media by members of the Board of the Public Book Agency. The Director has not adopted a strategic plan for the next five years, has abolished work grants and acted uneconomically. Therefore, it is logical that she was removed from the post of Director, since she would otherwise be the Minister and Council of the Public Agency in violation. You're also comparing religious servants and self-employed people. Like other self-employed, religious servants have been affected by the cod crisis, as it prevented the proliferation of the crown, and virtually today, religious rituals have been banned or severely restricted. The measures of basic monthly income for religious officials and the right to payment of social security contributions are temporary, intended to pardon and remedy the consequences of the epidemic and are exclusively linked to the time of the outbreak. Therefore, they do not hold a comparison of inequality if self-employed people in culture have to be granted the approval of a professional commission before they are granted such a privilege, but not by religious officials. You report to Minister Simoniti that he has not prepared the National Programme for Culture for the period 2018 to 2025. This is funny because Dr. Vasko Simoniti became Minister on 13 March 2020; this is what you read to him in the SD party, which you had in 2018 and 2019 Minister of Culture Mr. Prašič and Mr. Poznič. Yes, what were these two doing not to adopt the National Programme for Culture in 2018 and 2019? Although it should have been accepted in 2017 even during the time of the Government of Mir Cerar, when Mr Peršak was Minister of Culture. No one has done anything, but Minister Poznic has started with the preparation of the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2020-2027, but the work has not been completed and will certainly be done by Dr Vasko Simoniti. You're reading him what your culture ministers didn't do. Ask them why they did not do their job! But what's most surprising is that you meet at the Museum of Independence. In the year when Slovenia celebrates 30 years of independence and this is the largest holiday of this country, when we achieved what writers, culturalists, politicians have written about for decades – this is a problem for you. In one of the discussions, Koprivc said, "in that war in 1991". And that was our war? From whom's the war? Wasn't that war when we defeated the aggressor of the Yugoslav People's Army together? Was it not the war of all of us and those who died in the war, and why we now live in a independent democratic state? If the state doesn't deserve the Museum of Independence on its anniversary, I don't know why you go to museums like this across Europe. Our generation has experienced independence, none before us, and none after us – and this is not worth the museum?Oh, my God! In the text of the interpretation, you wrote, quote, “and eternal repatriation of traditional, possibly with religiously marked cultural patterns, which spirally reproduces from the memorial”. I ask, what is wrong with "as far as possible with religiously marked cultural patterns that have been here since the Memorial"? You admit it's our history, if it's from a memory book. Our history, intertwined with Christianity, is written about Trubar, Prešeren, Jurčič, Cankar and others. Are you not well too, for in their works they mention God because they were faithful? This is our history and tradition, which shaped national character, Slovenian culture and cultural patterns. I'm asking what's wrong with that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we support traditional and modern culture, but the essence of modern culture and new patterns is in tradition, the one from the memorial from which everything comes. If there wasn't a foundation where artists grew up, there wouldn't be any modern works either. However, we do not support those who claim to be artists, but their creativity ends in painting and pucking after the facade of the Ministry of Culture or the home house of Minister Simoniti; but those who write the names of the minister and employees and pour them with red paint that resembles slaughter and poses a threat to those mentioned. It is also incomprehensible for many people to consider breast-feeding dogs or to sing live bats and thus art and such performances the Ministry of Culture is co-financed. We also pay a pension to Serbian actor Radu Šerbedji, who makes films in Hollywood for big money. He participated in two Slovenian films and joked that he was able to read and understand in Slovenian and that he was able to speak English perfectly. This is a qualification that this country granted a pension at the time of the LDS government, which is higher than the pension of a number of pensioners in Slovenia. In 2020, these pensions amounted to 950,000 euros, most of them certainly deserved, but the criteria must be clear. Since there have been many similar anomalies in decades, it is right to review whether all those who receive funds from the Ministry of Culture deserve it; whether they are the top artists who have done extraordinary things in Slovenian culture, or have proved themselves by their work. You conclude with the words: “Adieu, Mr. Minister, culture never needed you.” That's not true! Precisely this minister needed sufficient resources for museums, galleries, theatres, self-employed and Slovenian films and enough attention for creative, intelligent creative workers in all areas of culture. In the SDS Interpellation Group, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary with a team, colleagues, colleagues! With your decisions and decisions by your government, Slovenian social and cultural space is becoming increasingly closed and dark. For Mr. Minister, in what times were men at work and voice, if they were defending the profession and the truth, and in what times did those who swore allegiance to the authority receive a voice? Thus, about 15 years ago, the situation in Slovenian culture was outlined by a member of the First Untrustworthy Minister Simoniti. In similar words, we could sum up your second act at the head of Slovenian culture. It seems, Mr Minister, that you and your party thinkers have evaluated the achievements and lost opportunities at the end of your first term and your political presence – I hope that this last time – you are trying to make up for them with unrelenting receptions, but this time you have much less time available, so they are even more targeted, brutal and destructive for Slovenian culture. Why do we think that in LMŠ? To whom can we call the Slovenian Minister for Culture or who should be and what should the Minister for Culture defend? Surely, first of all, where the bulk of the achievements or lost opportunities are not the product of an ideological and valuable cover. Or else: to someone who does not give a false impression that it is a burdened ideological commitment and prejudice, but lives as a politician and as a citizen, as well as to someone whose mission is only and only together – I repeat – a common public good for Slovenian culture. What about you? According to LMŠ, the Minister of Culture should be someone who co-creates Slovenian culture on the basis of the most intimate perception of Slovenia's uniqueness: yesterday, today and especially for tomorrow. Someone who will make a national, patriotic and academic effort to understand the various roles of cultural workers and workers in the Slovenian space. Or simply put, in the spirit of an oath: someone who will act for the well-being of Slovenia – Slovenia, not for the well-being of only one party according to the instructions of one man. After a year of operation of the current government, we drowned everyone in the LMŠ party about your understanding and taking on the consequences of political responsibility. When you create a new reality with your SDS client, you also create a new concept of taking political responsibility. We cannot therefore expect you to resign because you and your like – as Minister Hojs spoke out – do not give up because of unfulfilled obligations towards citizens. You stay and obey orders. It is undeniable that the ruling authority is trying to instill its values in social systems and subsystems, but the question before us is: how and in what way? First time. Does he understand the excellent achievements of his predecessors who understood the culture of dialogue? The answer is no. Another time. Does he further understand that culture and art are a map of thousands of views and can only live fully in the shelter of the possibility of writing, speaking, or painting. The answer is no. Third time. Does he understand that Slovenian culture and art have been depicted as centralism when it is perceived, and authoritarianism based on the denial of human rights and freedoms, that it is only a one-way road into a permanent conflict where the winner is known in advance? The answer is: he doesn't understand. During one year of monitoring the many creations of focal points in the field of culture, it became evident that sincere dialogue and integration undermines the perfidious and through the prism of democracy extreme, extremely low and dangerous strategy that leads to parallel reality, which we did not decide on at the time of Slovenia's independence. Improvement and regulation of the status of self-employed in culture through the dialogue group of the Ministry of Culture began before 2010, but today we are practically unable to talk about dialogue. Around the status of self-employed people, systematic hysteria, discomfort and hopelessness are more and more likely to be seen in the volume of claws both market and capital. About the promised and broad consensus of the integrated solutions that we have been able to hear from Minister Simoniti at the hearing, there is no spirit or hearing today. In short, nothing's empty. Minister Simoniti prefers to go along with this, with the unconscious netting of the conflict and in an unacceptable way. What it looks like is that we were able to first convince ourselves of the work of non-governmental organisations. First, you take it and wait if you have to follow the path of dialogue or follow the basic standards and state conduct in a democratic society. In order to mitigate the hostile policy towards NGOs, the parent parliamentary committee had to adopt a self-evident decision to assist the Ministry of Culture in the search for alternative premises after long-standing NGOs had received a decision on emigration from Metelkova 6. Of course, there are many of them who do their jobs when the state and its social policy are kept secret. For LMSH illegal. How else can we understand the fact that after months of warnings and appeals from the opposition, public letters, requests from civil society on the parent parliamentary committee, the decisions they call on the minister – beware! – to legal action. To legal action! As was the case with the irregularity and delays of the Ministry of Culture in the conduct of registration procedures for self-employed persons in culture and the payment of social security contributions. Incomprehensible, but this has happened in this House. Mr Simonita, when even coalition Members tell you that you are consciously violating the law, then step down. It's that simple, actually. But no, you don't. The power of argument, the culture of dialogue and the intellectual fair defence of its values in the field of culture have been replaced by a policy of repression with a short-term and transparent argument. With the shortest transition to exploiting the position of power, although it is perfectly clear to the perpetrator in power that the action does not withstand legal or legislative judgement and that there is little likelihood that the objective will also be achieved because the objective does not actually seem important. It is important to sow doubts that grab the party trumpet, reconstruct it, and restore it to its world of reality with the aim of controlling the civilian masses. The damage caused today means less effort in the future. The search for balance of the current government with Minister Simoniti understands in a way that harms others and seeks dissension, even though they are reduced freedoms and legally guaranteed rights. Mr. Minister, we consider your work so far in the LMŠ to be extremely harmful. Infringements, abandonment and neglect of political integrity are real and very obvious. While we were envious of the originality and ambition of some of the measures taken by the surrounding countries to mitigate the consequences of the cultural epidemic, the fate of Slovenian culture and art at the time of covid-19 was in the hands of the so-called Lahovnik Professional Consultative Commission and representatives of the economy. The lack of understanding of the specificity of the situation of self-employed persons in culture in the framework of intervention laws has at first led to an inappropriate level playing field in the eligibility of assistance to self-employed persons in culture. During the time period of the anti-Korona aid packages and the long-term health crisis, you did not establish any reference expert commission specialising in culture consisting of a wide range of professional associations, civil society, including representatives of the ministry, who would in any event be an accomplice to the Lachovnik Group and would, of course, also coordinate their proposals with it. Nothing. Nothing. We don't tell you that you haven't financially protected public cultural institutions because you did. However, we remind you that the heart of Slovenian culture in Slovenia is also represented by NGOs, independent creators, amateur volunteers acting in the public interest and for them, with the exception of common inter-resort measures, nothing has been done. It would be enough if we just looked over the planks after some measures, for example in Croatia, Italy or Austria. And you didn't do it. If our work stopped completely, they encouraged him elsewhere, which is, of course, proof that he could if he wanted to. With your incompetence and lack of ambition, you have suppressed all hope that in Slovenia it is even worth doing in culture. What did you and the Government say to Slovenian film makers who had to wait for the approval of coalition partners to include them in the 7th anti-Korona package after a long public fight, countless opposition parliamentary issues and calls from civil society? In the seventh antikoronic package! So you socially endangered about a thousand 400 people operating in the audiovisual industry, most of them of course self-employed and independent entrepreneurs. The consequences of stepmother’s behavior are even more devastating if all their family members are included in this issue. You've been on the safe side, you've received a salary of five in the month. They don't. Since your first violation and the suspension of the obligation to act because the claims made were not paid, you, Minister Simoniti, are also directly responsible for the damage suffered by Slovenia in the international film and political space, as international contracts and payments, which are also linked to co-production with foreign, in particular Dutch, Czech and Austrian film makers, were not met. Due to non-payments, investments in a Slovenian film from abroad have also been delayed. Also, Minister Simoniti, you have the responsibility and suspension of the duty to unprofessionally interrupt the creative continuity of film workers, as the financing of projects could adapt to new health conditions within individual stages of the production of film projects. The suspension of creative continuity by government blocking co-financing of film projects has also led to the expansion of the cycle of deficit professions in the film production. Many film workers who had knowledge and experience in this area have already qualified; some have lost forever; even because of you. Who, in respect of their own political integrity and knowledge of the role of RTV Slovenia and STA in Slovenian society, would even consider that, in order to change the law in the central media house, the national importance of measuring the five days of public debate during the holidays or letting the Slovenian Press Agency play financially? Who, in their right mind? Minister Simoniti, in destroying the media space, play a part: for the first time, by servicing amendments to media legislation that represent a clear step towards the gradual destruction of independent and free media. Secondly, on the other hand, by being passive and silent, by allowing both the President of the Government and the Government's Communications Office to deal with independent media. Public media concerned with the reliability and objectivity of information clearly poses an existential threat to you and the SDS. To date, being the director or director of a national cultural institution or agency has not been a political function, but in a new way, Mr Minister, you have introduced an extremely dangerous practice which strongly pushes the position of political power in terms of profession and civil society in the first direction. By not only underestimating and sponsoring the expert opinion but also violating the founding acts of the museums, you announced the selected candidate before you gained the opinion of the boards of institutions. Even before the Court of Auditors gave a similar opinion, we have found in the LMŠ that you are carrying out unimaginable and professionally questionable changes to the creation of acts which have no conceptual connection with other founding acts of related institutions in the work of selected criteria and professional competences. It is clear that you are trying to facilitate the political placement of candidates without professional premonitions, without experience or references and competences by modifying the constitutional acts. They are set up: yours, the true one, the obedient. That's actually what this is about. If, in the first term of the ministry, you have yet to hesitate with unilateral interventions to the cultural resort in Slovenia, you have decided today that the future of Slovenian culture must be in the hands of the SDS party. And the permanent conflict in the field of culture is only a consequence of that. Your key task was to enable the co-existence of all cultural and cultural people, artists and artists of various ideological hinters, and not to raise one and disable the other, even those who bring a critical thought to social space. You didn't do it. I'm sorry. Mr Simoniti, you are also politically responsible for the planned undermining of Slovenian cultural postulates, which you do not build up in the context of the plurality of the opinions of the profession and the involvement of civil society. You have led us so far that we are asking you, for example, for democracy, an almost self-evident question, which is: Why did you not allow for public and, above all, professional discussion in order to create a new museum of independence? Should not museums, art historians, historians, anthropologists, sociologists, and others discuss the need for such a museum and its meaning for society? Your actions are also reflected in the legislative and legal contentious proceedings under which you should never be signed as Minister. You deliberately act as a perfect alphabet, as if you do not understand the symbolism of the rebellious actions of culturers and give it a little credit to the threat of death. You're doing this on purpose! You leave the Assembly Hall in protest because you can no longer listen. In short, tell the filmmakers to sue the country because you, as their basic relationship with the highest government policy, cannot help them. In normal societies, when ministers see that they cannot carry out what is only right, they resign and thereby inform their government that they will not support it in illegal acts. No! No! You didn't do it. You kept your mouth shut and your culture destroyed. Culture, art and the media are no longer just targets of subversive attacks, of course aimed at subjugation. It is often pursued, often very much turned around, in the eyes of the public, in line with the populist doctrine, so that the client trumpets can also separate theirs. We believe in the LMŠ that, Minister Simoniti, we should step down because you are using machiavelistic methods to achieve your goals, which create dissension in society and negatively distort public interest in culture. Your government and I have also lost political culture. How can it be expected that the Minister of Culture will be cultural if his co-thinkers constantly disrupt the level of culture in all areas of the country? Interpellation, which we have also signed in the LMŠ, will of course be supported. Minister, you will do the most for political culture and culture even in Slovenia if you resign. You will also convince your government of this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Minister Vasko Simoniti! Allow me, Minister, to first express my satisfaction that you have responded today to this invitation to this interpolation, where you will somehow face the consequences of your one-year work. I would like to point out this because you did not respond to the two-time call of the European Parliament and did not attend a meeting which, following the one-year rule of the party you belong to, the SDS parties, requested a debate on the situation in Slovenia. And this is precisely in the substantive areas and points which, of course, are covered under the watchful eye of the President of the Government by you, Mr. Minister, Minister of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. And although I, honourable Members, am pleased that today the Minister has agreed to look into the mirror, I must first ask myself why the Minister would refuse to discuss this in the European Parliament. After all, the debate would be about the same issues that we will be sending to MEPs and Members here in the Slovenian Parliament today. Like us, democratic Europe is interested in why all these attacks on journalists. How is it possible for us to monitor in a Member State of the European Union the restriction of the independence of journalistic work? How is it possible, with respect and respect, that the government of a democratic state is vehemently violating the laws when it takes the right to beat the Slovenian Press Agency, the agency that, 30 years ago, together with other media at the time, played a key role in the independence and establishment of the Slovenian State? The Slovenian Press Agency is still a pillar of quality and impartial information on events in Slovenia for both domestic and foreign users. Why must attacks on freedom of speech and expression take place in Slovenia? And why does the competent ministry, along with the Ministry of Justice, do nothing to plague the plague of hate speech, intolerance and false news? But not only on social networks, but also in the media, which are close to the members of the ruling SDS party. In those media for which it is not clear, from what sources they are financed, and in those media for which investigative journalists have to explore suspicious cash flows that flow through Slovenia between Hungary and Macedonia. I really ask you, Minister, do you think the truth will be any different in the National Assembly? Will the weight of your actions and actions be different with the strong support of your favored media and without impartial judges? Dear Minister, there won't be! Because you will also be accompanied today by citizens and citizens; those who are, and those who have not read your 130-page response to the interpolation submitted by Members and Members of the democratic opposition. And regardless of the answers or, better said, the excuses today will be clear that you, who should be the first ally of Slovenian culture, have completely cancelled. Mr. Secretary, you are personally responsible. And you're no longer fit to perform the minister's duties because you've left behind the values and people you should represent. Moreover, you have become the first enemy instead of the first defender. A man of carelessness, which caused many to be plunged into personal, family, and business hardships. And no, Mr Minister, if you can avoid facing this reality in the European Parliament, you will not escape it here today in the National Assembly. While we are aware in the SD that a number of important developments have been made in the area of culture, among which the adoption of the so-called cultural euro law, adopted by the National Assembly at the time the Ministry of Culture was led by Social Democracy, can be counted. We also welcome the increase in cultural resources allocated to the state budget, but this does not change the fact that the cultural situation is catastrophic and that people, together with their families, are in severe personal and existential distress. Why? Because of your work or, rather, your wrongdoing. Full suspension of dialogue, arbitrary interference with the already acquired rights of self-employed in culture, blocking the financing of Slovenian film, total ignorance of employees in the industry meetings and complete silence or deafening silent support in attacks on independence and freedom of journalistic work, especially on the public institute RTV and STA, and the financial privilege of SDS media trumpets in anti-korona legislation are in fact a strong enough reason for each of us to discharge Dr Vasko Simoniti's National Assembly from the post of Minister of Culture not until today, much earlier. Let it be no mistake for the Minister to take the night off from the cultural sector in this wake year, where the people employed in the cultural sector and the people employed in the cultural sector are caught up in the night off work, and to listen to the Government say that he would at least consider the opposition proposals for the resolution of the cultural sector, and today he would be applauded for the good work he has done. Sadly, though, we have no reason to do so; not one single reason. The Minister has been allowing part of the cultural sector to die for meals throughout his term of office. Due to government measures to combat covid-19 virus epidemics, or rather, due to government failures and cultural ignorance, they have been employed in the cultural sector and employees associated with cultural activity for a year without work. They're out of work because of the government, because of Dr. Vask Simoniti's failure, and not because they ran out of energy and desire to create and express. That is why there is no and there can be no doubt: Dr. Vasko Simoniti is responsible. Firstly, in order to reduce and eliminate the consequences of the total blocking of work and the provision of cultural services in order to limit measures to combat the covid-19 virus epidemic. Secondly, for attacks on freedom and independence of journalists and an attempt to limit the independence and working conditions of the public service of RTV and STA. As we have heard today from the Minister's first reaction, he sees a conspiracy, a media conspiracy not only in Slovenia, but throughout Europe. Apparently, Milan Kučan has hunters spread far and wide. Thirdly, to prevent the payment of funds for the work already done in the field of film and film production. Fourthly, in order to attempt a senseless distribution of tenants of premises at Metelkova Street 6; this is a society that has played a key role in democratising the Republic of Slovenia and mitigating the social consequences over the next 30 years. For the political withdrawal of the status of self-employed in culture, for the delay in issuing decisions on the admission of self-employed persons and thus the recognition of entitlements to pay social contributions. Week, for retrograde management of cultural policy and suspension of social dialogue. Eight, for political recruitment in public cultural institutions. Let me point out here that the management of the museum of recent history was taken over by Dr. Dežman, a prominent advocate of historical revisionism and a great non-critical supporter of the camp, who collapsed with fascism and Nazism during World War II. Ninth, to respect the constitutional principle of separation between the Church and the State and to prevent the preparation of the National Programme for Culture. This reality, not at home, nor in the eyes of the foreign professional and political public, Minister, you can no longer escape. There's too much damage, too much incompetence and inactivity. While in response, the Minister does say that he has a record budget for culture and that it is a quarter larger than the budget planned for 2021 under the previous government. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, what does culture have to do with this, what do employees, who have made their work impossible, and you haven't thought for a moment about how to provide them with security and infrastructure to restart? Respected and respected! Let me remind you of all the Slovenian individuals and groups that create cultural events, cultural products, preserve our cultural tradition and enrich our Slovenian cultural landscape. Many of them, with successful projects, represented the wider world public. They're all alone. Let me remind you here of all non-governmental organisations that help people regulate purely normal living things, which, for example, should be taken care of by the state or by NGOs that allow young people and young people to develop their potential. Some of them, as has already been said, have you voluntarily evicted, telling others not to count on the help of the state because they are privileged — or what did you say before, respected ministers? Why do you think that? Because they dare to speak critically of you and your leader. A very simple, distinguished minister. Why are you against filmmakers, why are you against self-employed people in culture, why are you voluntarily deleting artists from self-employed records, why are you even Minister of Culture, if you simply don't care? Respected! Sometimes it's enough to just open your eyes if you listen to people and do the first real thing. In your case, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, this is a resignation. If you can't do it alone, I hope the National Assembly can do it because the masks have fallen and there are no more illusions. The Iliberal Click, ruled by Slovenia, is the biggest threat to the future of our Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, is the third order that will take place in the last two weeks as a trilogy of the conflict between different thoughts, different ideologies and different views on culture and cultural participation. The text of the interpolation is penetrated by a relatively intense emotional charge. Addressing the actions of the Minister of Culture with a total war on culture as political activism, which is trying to destroy as soon as possible, we understand as an opportunity for the Minister to respond to all the obvious today. It would be good for all to have today's dialogue on all sides in the spirit of culture and respect. It seems that we have seen the introduction to this interpretation at many meetings of the Committee on Culture and the National Assembly in the past year. The preparation of the new rules on the expert commissions has been fuelled by a number of NGOs in the non-governmental sector, although these have not been uniform, or if you want to be equally loud about the subject of an amendment. Some see in one expert commission member coming from the Ministry, the threat of independence and the expertise of the Commission, others say that the expert committee, composed of only external experts, is unique in our area, as other commissions that assess projects that are registered for a call are mostly composed of ministry officials. In this regard, we must point out that more than a solution is the very important way we have come to it. We are talking about the fact that more than the content of an act is an important dialogue between the competent ministry and civil society, which has the right to participate in the decision-making process and cannot be reduced simply to the publication of a proposal for a regulation on a public portal. It is therefore surprising that there was no consultation before the publication of the Rules with the National Council for Culture, which together with the dialogue groups represents an important partner in the formulation of cultural regulations. The first parliamentary initiative, which falls under the competence of the Minister for Culture, was addressed to the Government last year, when news broke out in public that the already signed film production contracts were not being implemented and that the financier did not comply with his contractual obligations. It seemed right for us that the funds for the film that had been blocked for almost a year would finally be released, as these are valid contracts that even many projects have already been implemented. Finally, the solution to this important issue was found in the seventh anti-korona law, which provided for the exception that the Ministry of Finance, on a proposal from the financial plan proposer, could place the project in the existing NRP when it comes to the inclusion of projects with funding from the state budget of up to EUR 600 000. Metelkova, a public space where they respect diversity, solidarity, dialogue and critical opinion. In such a way, the activities of the organisations on the Metelkova were presented in the request for an emergency meeting at one of the meetings of the Committee on Culture. We can agree on that. Metelkova 6 has its own specific urban note, and the fact is that we have in the middle of Ljubljana, as well as elsewhere in Slovenia, objects that fail, lose their meaning, pale and disappear. Why allow one such area of the city to fail and even oppose its restoration? In the SMC, we have always supported creativity, research and advocacy of minority groups, but merely insisting on trenches and resisting attacks on civil society and independent culture will not lead us as a society to the end, where a peaceful co-existence will be possible among all stakeholders who have been trying to solve this problem for many years. I'm afraid it's not successful enough so far. With regard to the indications of the withdrawal of State funding from the field of public interest in the field of media, in particular, the intervention mentions the public institution RTV, we must stress that such proposals, which are supposed to include the new Media Law, need a wider consensus. It should be pointed out, however, that the interpellation candidates speak only of the proposal; that is, a proposal that does not even have a regulation in force. In the SMC, at the previous meetings of the Committee on Culture, at which we discussed either the annual reports of the RTV Supervisory Board or only the topics that, due to the payment of the supplements at the time of the epidemic, to certain employees on RTV almost turned into affairs, we have always expressed high expectations of RTV as a public institution as well as of management. Decommissioning RTV for us was never an option, we don't agree to it. We have heard many times that the high price at the time of the epidemic is paid by self-employed people in culture. We can agree that the procedures for issuing the decision to register and decide on the right to pay the contributions in the previous year have taken too long. The Law on General Administrative Procedure is clear and the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is even clearer. We know that late decision-making is not the only problem. In the past year, there have been complications in the compulsory, simultaneous decision-making of the application for entry into the alert and the application for payment of contributions if the applications have been submitted simultaneously. The purpose of such a legal provision is that those who have been granted entry into a register, but not the right to payment of contributions, decide whether or not they want to be registered in a register of self-employed persons in a culture at all. If the Ministry does otherwise, it means that it does not pursue the objective and purpose of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. However, it is important to know that professional commissions play an important role in this, sometimes unaware of their responsibilities throughout the decision-making process. If we move on to one of the most important strategic documents on culture in Slovenia, we must stress that the adoption of the National Programme for Culture is a coalition commitment. While the preparation and adoption of the new National Programme for Culture has been taking place for a number of years, it is also the responsibility of all past ministers who did not have enough political time and power to bring this strategically important document to the point of acceptance. The epidemic, which has affected almost all our social sub-systems, has spared no one, at least those who create in the field of culture. If ever, now is the right and extreme time to prepare measures and programmes, to revive art and production, and to all those who, in any way, interact with the Ministry of Culture and this represents a vital part of their existence, gives way to a long-lasting tribulation. Regardless of all today's revelations recorded in the interpretation, the field of culture in Slovenia can boast a rich repertoire of the diverse creation of all who devote their daily lives to creating themselves and the audience, regardless of its size. We agree with the proponents that society should not measure its achievements only in the language of economic growth and added value. We don't think the Minister would agree. Today he will have the opportunity to convince us at this marathon session that that is true. After today at the SMC, we want and expect the Minister to continue his work with discretion, taking into account social dialogue, the diversity of Slovenian society in the field of art, the meaning of the existence of all arts and, above all, the culture of dialogue. In the SMC Group of today's interpolation, we will not generally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Hello! Dear Mr. Secretary, all gathered and gathered here! We begin with a ghastly preamble, which reads: What can citizens and citizens expect from the ruling cultural policy or anything at all? The epidemic is not just a health crisis, but it is creating a worldwide divisive, demagogic crisis of political ideologies. Everywhere in Europe, where the right hand reigns, the culture is at the shock of backward populism, warmed up and curved in time. It's kind of like that around us. The tragic state of Slovenian culture today is the balance of its defeat; the defeat that took place in the 2020/2021 season. From Friday, 13 March last year, until this spring, there is a black scenario: the attack on the book and the Public Book Agency, the poverty of film production, the violent removal of culturers and artists reading the Constitution before parliament, the expulsion of NGOs from Metelkova, the denial of the rights of self-employed culturers and the encroachment of their kinds, the closure of theatres and cinemas, museums, galleries, the closure of libraries and bookstores, music events, dance and ballets, human cleansing, client apparatus and political entrapment of central cultural institutions, the hostile takeover of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia and the Slovenian Press Agency, the international hacking of free journalism, the hate speech of ruling elites, the silence of Radio Student, the censorship of foreign art institutions through the ambassador of Rome, the demolition of Roga, the police press, the hate speech of the ruling elites, the silence of the foreign art institutions through just a few days of protest. Throughout the period, the Ministry of Culture has been active in decommissioning and destroying the independent cultural sector of NGOs in the field of culture and self-employed cultural workers and workers in dismantling that part of culture that does not penetrate the government horn, does not please and does not smell the power elite, it does not like it. Cultural creators and creators, cultural workers and workers, artists and artists see them as redundant, as parasites, as parasites, as privileged, seeking to dilute their species, and their rights as self-titled privileges, and to delineate and subtract them. He wants to rub his wings on the culture, but he can't, there's no force in this world that could never, ever, and not today. For the Slovenian language and culture are the emancipatory forces of history, the driving force of survival in the past and the existence in the present. Today, cultural politics has no vision, except through the blind prism of the ruling SDS, has neither ethics nor moral principles, exerts evil maneuvers, destructive cultures, destructive to its creators and creators, destructive in essence to humans. Far from what someone said nicely: “Opening the door to the Ministry means listening to the voice of an artist, crossing the threshold of power and worshiping culture.” The minister screwed up a lot of things, I'd say, but unfortunately it's not a bollocks, as if the bonton and manners of a man in high state office might be behavioristically overly pitiful. Instead of being the protector of culture, her guardian and the patron of state, Minister Simoniti serves to avenge, eliminate and eliminate all cultural and artistic spheres that are enlightened, progressive, avant-garde, the fruit of thinking humanism, the phenomenon of freedom. It seems that the man at the head of the cultural set draws and despises creativity, creativity, advanced thought, a critical mind and a rebellious spirit. Rather than a socially engaged, live and vital culture, the ruling class would probably see a significant empty parade of form, a hollow aesthetics of averageness without the risk of social road mobilisation, and an eternal rehearsal of traditional, preferably with the majority religion of surviving specimens that spirally reproduce from memory. The poet Anja Golob writes about how culturers got kicked into the plexus during the epidemic, quote: “This society stands on some consensual ethical foundations, without which there is a stinking cloak, where there is only the law of a stronger or one that is more intrusive and vulgar. The Ministry of Culture should be the first advocate of cultural standards in society. Its operation should be a basic social standard and its task should be to ensure the welfare of the sector. The position and state of culture are the best indicators of her health in some society.” “It is a matter of disrespect and an open attack on one of the fundamental pillars of our social contract: basic dignity and respect between us.” But the poets and the poets don't want to listen to our authority, so he can't hear them either. Acquisition of power, control and control of art and media, censorship of deviance, all of these are traces of cultural propaganda from some dark times, whose aim was to mobilize the masses into political submission, break of spirit and complete surrender. Even though you are also trying to instill doubts, sow intolerance and share culture in terms of law – not law – ours – foreign, high – low, traditional – modern, culture is neither and will not clone. Cultural workers, artists, artists, designers don't give up. The area for the culture version shows ugly faces, but also fear. The playwright Vlado Novak, recipient of Borštnik's ring, at the time of the attacks on culture, notes how our authority, I quote, “loves sport, where there is measurement, which is dangerous to it is immeasurability, irreprehensibility, secrecy, strangeness, metaphor in art”. End of quote. Again, others say that we are infected not with the virus, but with barbaricism and contempt for culture. Berea's sense of culture is a inherited status quo, but with the current impact on its most vulnerable part, the weakest article reaches the dark bottom. The already urban state of culture, the unenviable position of cultural workers, self-employed people in culture and non-governmental organisations has greatly deteriorated by the occurrence of the coronavirus crisis, precisely because of the lack of action taken by the State. Culture is in agony, compressed into an ideological mold to the extent of the ruling or bulging beyond survival, the eternal girl of politics. The epidemic has cut into the sphere of culture harshly and without mercy, and yet, culture as a whole in anti-Korona legislation has not been addressed, nor would it need its package of measures and a different way of dealing with it in order to overcome the crisis and recover from it. In exceptional circumstances, cultural workers and creators have not only lost their job opportunities but also many without status. In the context of the multilayered divisive effects of the ministry's delay in issuing decisions and the separate treatment of the role of self-employed in culture, serious consequences for applicants whose survival and social security are seriously threatened. Applications for the status of self-employed persons and the right to payment of social contributions have not been addressed at the same time, which leads to delays and is a violation of the fundamental law on culture. At the time of the total weakening of the functioning of cultural institutions and the incursion of cultural life, at the time of forced cultural silence, the most vulnerable group of cultural workers are very self-employed in culture, trapped in a vicious circle – without status, and without contributions there is no status. Bookstores. These are almost closed all the time, while other shops are operating. The dimension of the book is dual, cultural and educational and economic, so that the book should be classified as an indispensable asset of life and a bookstore as a national important infrastructure. We don't have guidelines on theatre opening protocols and cinema courts. You can go to a church or a sauna, or you can't go to a theater or a movie. We don't even have an approximate opening date for theaters and cinema courts. Dramatic ensembles perform in front of an empty floor. They don't have anyone to bow down to. Even though they work in the public sector, theatre players are not on the vaccination list, although they cannot avoid being around the work process. Many have fallen ill, and among the theaters we count the fatalities. Museums and galleries alone, missing visitors. During the crown, people got away from cultural participation, coming back gradually, away from the pre-epidemic times, and the museums were struck by the loss of their own income. And a movie. The way of supporting the film was inherited by the current government, but it did not show even a shred of intent to solve the problems, but, quote, “letting the filmmakers in a cramp on the last day until the Silvest night when the funds for the work had already been released”, said former Minister Shirca. After the shameful financial blockade of the film, when the creators did not receive payments for their work when domestic production came to a standstill and withered international, there is now a new blockade of the film, a new blockade of the Slovenian Film Centre, which received only a partial decision from the Ministry in February for about half of the annual budget funds, thus actually paying the costs on last year's projects. Exhaustion is, therefore, continuing. Instead of helping the industry to meet, which was completely broken down and put on their knees, the Ministry undertook to mix with media legislation, but without public debate and without profession. The objective is crystal clear – the restriction of journalistic freedom, the direction of financial flows from public service to private, or media, which is back to SDS, the withdrawal of autonomy from the Slovenian Press Agency and Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The Minister's failure to respond to the illegal closure of the public service funding of the STA and the attempt of the political command on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is frightening. This is nothing more than a hostile takeover, an attack on the constitutional right to information. After months of financial exhaustion, the government is now ordering the STA Supervisory Board to dismiss the Director. The twilight of democracy. The ears of the authorities are deaf. The Minister has not established a dialogue with non-governmental organisations and self-employed in culture, dialogue groups, as we have known since 2009, are not designed; the rules on expert commissions have been adapted in their own way by limiting existing standards and imposing a strong influence on the Minister himself, i.e. on himself. It continues without a national programme for culture, a delay that not only constitutes a violation of legislation, but also paves the way for development. While in the government you boast 46 million cultural budgets, almost half of which are devoted to investments, including unplanned but la museums of self-preservation, while you wave record-breaking budgets, culturers and non-governments threaten to withdraw funding. Persecution and exhaustion of the most vulnerable in culture occur by starving, exterminating and eradicating. The same pattern as you take in the case of a musician who has been arbitrarily deleted from the register of self-employed in culture, thereby losing his right to cover social security contributions. The same template for the Slovenian Film Centre, for the Public Book Agency, for Radiotelevision Slovenia, for the Slovenian Press Agency, for self-employed in culture, for Metelkova. Who, Minister, is next? We wonder if we may be stuck in the living mud, in the swamp of feudal capitalism under the power of feudal gentlemen who share and rule in their own person. “Divides ed empire” is in our case formerly “land and rule”. We show you the full dependence of your professional work on client decisions, responsibility for not issuing decisions on the status of self-employed in culture, new tax provisions with a view to reducing the number of top artists and artists, amending the rules on commissions, changing commissions, self-sufficient dialogue with the profession, the Rosade of the Prešern Prizes Commission with non-professional members, loyal right policies. Minister, we acknowledge the arrogance and marginalization of any cultural production that the Ministry does not see as real because it does not stutter in the right horn, the deliberate destruction of the modern, into the international waters of the entanglement of living art and culture. We give you a degree of appreciation of art and culture, the stretching through our own vats of measured national art, the sustaining and censorship of culture. Minister, we are reading the kidnapping of the media and the promotion of hate speech, the non-response to police violence against top artists and artists, representatives of Slovenia at Beneška and other bienals, violence against constitutional readers and the criminalisation of peaceful protestors. We see customerism and corruption in the political structures of non-professional staff in central cultural institutions. We are seeing a lack of respect for protective measures, a failure to wear a face mask when visiting Boris Pahor and disregarding the safety distance, so the rules of your own government. We're telling you everything we should have done, and you're not. These are measures to help culture in relation to covido-19, which do not support and survive an active culture during the epidemic, special support to sectors and professions in culture, with the greatest income loss in times of crisis, equalising the status of self-employed in culture with employees in public institutions, changing the way in which funds are allocated, microcredit to self-employed people, fair taxation of contract workers in culture, the establishment of a crisis fund for art and culture in the form of European countries, such as Austria, Germany, Belgium, also Croatia and Ireland, direct assistance to self-employed persons from public resources, the introduction of clear guidelines on opening theatres and cinemas and industry meetings, the inclusion of a book among the essentials of life. Last but not least, the adoption of guidelines on gender equality in culture and gender balance as a criterion for the distribution of public finances; in Slovenia, for example, a woman directed only 1 in 12 public funds supported a feature film and only 1 in 6 short films. In the last year, the year of the epidemic, the year of the change of government and the year without culture, the feeling of loss of democracy and freedom of expression is growing horribly. The space of democracy and culture is closed, cramped and narrow, the existence and future of culture is not devoted to adequate concern, as is the case in other European countries, where culture is seen as a public good. In the epidemic, the countries of Europe have strongly assisted culture or art, even Hungary has provided artists with a special aid package. However, not Slovenia, this exit in silence, the black cultural sector points out that resources for culture should be increased by at least EUR 20 million over the coming years to address the consequences of the epidemic, in order to ensure that a dedicated fund of at least EUR 50 million is provided and so on. But this did not happen, because our ruling class lives in fear of culturers, in fear of journalists, in fear of the media, in front of Radiotelevision Slovenia, in front of STA, in front of activists, before reading the Constitution, even before snowmen. For him culture is not an investment in the future, it is not an enlightened project, it is a cost on the shoulders of a capitalist mogul that has weapons, but it has no health care, it has no education, it has no science, it has no culture – in fact, it is not for people. You don't want to hear the weeds of culture. You call them screaming. At the meetings you do not want to report on matters relating to the parent’s working bodies, you left the meetings in a fly’s way, you pushed yourself away, saying: “I will not listen, do not love me. Bye! The second time you sent your fellow Members to Bucharest: “Go to Bucharest, engaged Romania!” you insulted the general public, including the Member State of the European Union. According to the poet Brana Mozetič, an artist of world reputation and numerous awards, one of those from Metelkova, from which the minister does not know anyone with superior achievements, I quote: “I understand that perplexing people for power is inviting, but in the long run it leads to ruin.” End of quote. Not only are you leading us to ruin, Minister, the ruling men over there are directly wooded. With all the haste and foamy mouths, you'll be able to find those last ones that can't be subdued that are still hanging over the cliff. But culture and art cannot be enslaved. Not to be subdued, mutilated, done for your propaganda machine, the trumpet of anger, of mind. No, no, no. That is why the call for resignation is also a call for help — to live culture and freedom with it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The 10 points of the Minister of Culture's interpretation were explained in a very uncultured way, showing in particular the level of their culture and their behaviour. At the time of the Coronavirus epidemic, all newly appointed ministers, including Minister Vasko Simoniti, began to prepare anti-Korona packages in which each made proposals for its own resort, for culture, culture and artists, for cultural institutions and the like. The epidemic is, of course, a health crisis, but it has by no means bypassed the cultural field, but the Minister has always been limited by health measures. He followed the professional services and defended and fought for culture in Slovenia as part of his abilities. At the initiative of the Ministry of Culture, Slovenia was one of the first countries in the world to have opened museums, galleries, libraries with appropriate protective measures by the end of April 2020, under appropriate protective conditions. They also supported the opening of summer outdoors, including the annual stage on Metelkova and the promotion campaign We are #open to culture. Notwithstanding the fact that the epidemic prevented the implementation of the planned production, the Ministry of Culture provided all the funds allocated to them before the epidemic, both for the implementation of the programme and for salaries and general operating costs, without delay. In 2020, non-active public institutions could be able to absorb up to 41% of the programming resources, but they still retained all the funds, although they failed to fully implement the programme. The Ministry also launched all calls for NGOs and individuals, irrespective of the state of the epidemic and the limited implementation of cultural programmes, showing a great deal of flexibility and understanding due to the epidemic situation. In addition to the measures taken to contain the epidemic, stakeholders in the field of culture have also drawn intervention funds from the budget of other ministries. According to data from the Ministry of Culture, business entities in culture, independent entrepreneurs, who are listed as the main activity of any of the cultural activities but do not have the status of self-employed in culture and self-employed in culture, have received funds of around €70 million through the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment for Part-time and All Reimbursement of Wages, subsidisation of Full-time Reductions, remuneration for Quarantine. Furs provided data on the exemption from payment of all social security contributions and pension and disability insurance, for the crisis allowance and for the monthly basic income. It is clear from the data that last year the Minister for Culture did not forget about cultural workers, but also sought to release restrictive measures in the field of culture as soon as possible. For 2021 we confirmed the record high budget of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal by the government of Marjan Šarca for 2021 amounted to a good EUR 190 million for the Ministry of Culture and, following the 2021 budget rebalancing, the budget increased by almost EUR 47 million at the initiative of Minister Vasko Simoniti. If we compare the budget from the government of Marjan Šarc with the budget of our government, we get a chain index of 124.1%, which means almost a quarter increase in the resources devoted to culture and cultural creativity from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The largest amount of EUR 20.5 million has increased for investments in public cultural infrastructure, an increase of EUR 1 million for monuments owned by municipalities and other natural persons, as well as 1 million for publishing and film activities, a shortfall of EUR 2 million for creativity, namely theatre, music, visual and intermediate art, 1.4 million more for self-employed people, for their social security contributions, work scholarships and sickness scholarships, and half a million more for the purchase of library materials. In addition to all the increases, the budget for 2021 provides funds for the vital programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture amounting to EUR 9.3 million, for the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments, for the provision of basic spatial conditions and the purchase of equipment for public institutions in the field of culture, for the development of modern library services for traveling libraries, for the maintenance and restoration of the most vulnerable and important Slovenian film, dance, music and ballet heritage and for the digitisation of cultural heritage, for the construction of the most endangered infrastructures for Slovenian language in the digital environment, for the provision of essential spatial conditions and equipment, for the development of cultural and non-governmental culture by local communities and youth cultural activities and for the purchase of cultural heritage and contemporary art. The funds thus increased in all cultural areas, from theatre and film to book and publishing production. However, the largest increase in resources is for the preservation of cultural heritage. Speakers repeatedly point out that there has not been or has been a dialogue with stakeholders in the field of culture. We can understand from the data that he has been guided all the time, since in his mandate, the minister and his team held more than 500 meetings with different cultural stakeholders, personally over 100. He regularly communicated with the Association, which wants to position itself as one of the key interlocutors for the operation of NGOs in the field of culture and self-employed in culture. There are still many readings in the interpolation that are not based on actual data and are not supported by any evidence. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we do not agree with the text of the interpretation, so we will not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž German asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Thank you very much. All present, dear Minister! Now that we have had the opportunity to hear the views of all the parliamentary groups, we can conclude that the debate will be fruitful and the result of the vote will be even more so. Nothing is more self-evident, nor is it the support of those who have given you their voice in the appointment of both the government and you, a respected minister who says that today it is an abuse of the interpolation institute. This could be agreed by Slovenian nationalists or by populists gathered in the Slovenian National Party or by the SDS party to which you belong, perhaps in one part by conservatives, as we heard from a colleague from Nova Slovenije. Certainly not the majority, not among liberals, socialists and socialists. Dearly beloved, more than it is necessary to hold a thorough debate and my request is based on your response, I would like to receive an answer from you today, not just us, not just us, the preparers, but the general public. For from the fact that we abuse this institute, I find it inappropriate. You maintain your distance not only to colleagues in the field of culture, but you do the same to the State Assembly, to which you are in a subordinate position, because it has appointed you. You're talking about wanting to build some new spirit, talking about wanting to set some new criteria, especially in defining beautiful, and as you say, “true culture”. That's your quote. In fact, you have stood up as the supreme censor of Slovenian culture, with all due respect, because what are these criteria that define art as valuable as you define it? Allow me to ask you what this new concept is, is this established possible in the new national programme or new laws? What are your criteria for identifying art for good and bad or defining culture for worthy support or not? Certainly not by ignoring the established and valid instruments, and of course all the judgements that have been building together with the construction of our country over the years. Without any analysis, but only on the basis of your opinion or opinion of your colleagues, “it seems to us that this is the case”, so you like to say. Dearly beloved, you criticize your predecessors in particular; on the other hand, you have raised in your text at least three times the cultural euro law, which they, God forbid, but you should say, proposed and confirmed on the proposal of your predecessors of the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to see your relationship with the two most vulnerable groups, I am talking about self-employed on the one hand, and NGOs on the other. None of these are privileged, but the Ministry of Culture has its own rules by which creators and creators are placed in a position when they receive status, so this is not an individual responsibility and the decision of the Minister. Minister, in your insulting words, you prove that you have violated the normative acts and rules that we have agreed on as a society in the past. You are late in issuing decisions on the registration of self-employed persons in culture or the recognition of the right to payment of contributions, this is clear to you all, both in politics and in culture, and you are still saying that there is nothing to tell you that there is no reason for this interpretation that this interpretation has been misused. Moreover, even the Ombudsman, the Minister of Human Rights, is clear to you, quote: "The management of the Ministry of Culture in the management of procedures for the granting of the status of self-employed in culture and the right to payment of the social security contribution indicates a violation of the principle of the economic process, the principle of the protection of the rights of the party in the process and the principle of good governance." You said you didn't break any acts, that you didn't break any laws. Let me remind you. In a decision by which you delete an individual from the register of self-employed in a culture, you do not state the facts but only the alleged infringements. You refer to procedures that have not yet been completed, but you do not distinguish between the work of the creator on the one hand and his private participation and decisions on the other. Above all, the rapper Zlatko Čordić, who you make fun of today on the other side, had no chance, no attention, no opportunity to complain. It's democracy by your own, it's culture by your own, it's perception of reality, understanding culture by your own. Such practices, whether or not you will be a respected minister, are totally unacceptable, regardless of who sits in this chair, whether you or someone else is from the past or the future. It is an illegal conduct of a public authority. Clearly, the foundations of the rule of law have been violated, and I quote another lawyer: “I have not seen such a poorly managed procedure and a poorly written decision. I can hardly imagine the Ministry issuing such a decision. Above all, I am sure that the Administrative Court will abolish it if Mr Čordić merely challenges it in administrative proceedings. Such a decision is almost impossible to take seriously," Dr Rajko Pirnat. And you say you haven't done anything wrong, and you've done it again and again. Whoever believes you has steel nerves. Dear Minister of Culture, you cannot avoid being held responsible for the unacceptable deterioration of the media situation, by the way, and boasting about the non-existent measures, not only during the pandemic, which has particularly affected all of the advertising revenues of the dependent media, in particular these, you were not prepared to prepare targeted assistance for the media and journalists, as many European countries have done and should look at you. On top of that, as has already been said, you unjustifiably held back the payment of the written funds and initially limited it to 30% of the contractual value. Since you have nothing to show for it, the Minister-designate, except at this point in time for the applicants, boasts of the measures of temporary suspension of the frequency and mandatory programming shares carried out by those responsible. Dearly beloved, you are obviously responsible for the attack on the freedom of independent and free media as a journalistic work and for the attempt to limit the independence of the working conditions of public RTV and STA. ACOS, you say that they are only relevant for radio programmes with general packages of measures for all sectors. The media and their associations, the Media Chamber at the GZS and the Society of Journalists of Slovenia, have already explained to you at the beginning of the health-economic crisis that we cannot compare the media with economic companies, especially when we are talking about financial measures. Countries that are aware of the importance of media organisations and media professionals, which we still need at the time of the epidemic, because we do not want to be left to the mercy and mercy of disinformation and conspiracy theories, have been able to respond pronto. The Republic of Slovenia is one of those countries where it has not been possible to respond quickly and legally. Self-employed, respected ministers, who are like hummus and a vital part of art and culture, still face the fact that their own minister does not know what to do with them, how to offer them a solution, how to get out of this situation. It is a great artist, a respected minister – you can marvel at all that has been said – who, with their creations and awards both in the domestic and international fields, promote our country the Republic of Slovenia and can disprove the achievements of our top athletes. They may be a little less popular, but they're successful. But at the same time, this group in culture is most vulnerable to unstable, punitive working conditions and unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated completely. You're saying that he has to create his own opportunities to work, that he has to think as an entrepreneur, that's what you're saying, Minister of Culture about a culturer. That's not what the Minister for Education says about athletes! It must be available 24 hours a day and the conditions for possibility on the labour market are limited. Self-employed, respected, are in a situation where they must accept any work, on the other hand they cannot afford to fall out of the work process for existential reasons, because of this, of course, they lose their income. They live from hand to mouth. We're happy with the politics that we get every fifth salary, aren't we, Minister? The work of people in the field of art and culture is bad, making it not only difficult to create them, but life in general, their lives and the lives of their loved ones. Here we face the increasingly poor health situation of the creators, the limited possibilities of living conditions. Statistics show that one third of self-employed people live below the poverty line. More than half of them do not reach minimum wage. Minister, more than half of them don't make minimum wage. To this is a limited Slovenian culture, which you command, a respected minister, and you are responsible. This is the standard that we advocate in the Republic of Slovenia, where we still, however, apply to and belong to a group of richer countries in the world. You say you want the American system of culture – that's what the European says, that's what the Slovenian says, and that's how he has to be dictated by the dictates of money, so I'm talking about the system of culture. No such system, a respected minister, exists in the past and will not allow freedom of expression in the future, which is the essence of art or culture, if you will. It is difficult to understand that the Slovenian Minister for Culture does not recognize this. I mean, it's my opinion that you don't even have the legitimacy to think that way. For you yourself are a living example of diametrically opposite growth in environments that allowed you to grow in person, that you have become what you are. And I'm sure it wasn't the American system. I'm sure it wasn't. So you want a system in which you wouldn't survive. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] If in the American system, a respected minister, you wouldn't survive it yourself. Slovenia is still, thank God, a social state, and I say thank God with emphasis, because we never know what could happen to us if we cannot help ourselves anymore. If a healthy person has a job, what happens when we can’t do it anymore? Slovenia is a social state and this is also enshrined in the Constitution, which was a social agreement in the 1980s and 1990s. As Minister, if the market wants to stimulate investment, the system should mainly regulate the Slovenian art market, as it is now only abroad. I can tell you that as a sculptor's son. However, we have a law that provides additional support to the creator, this is Article 79 from a to a č, and I think where, according to the ambitions of infrastructure projects in this government, the artistic share of public investment funds can be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, in our responses we will touch on the film, the film industry, but allow me before we go to other content – we will have time to talk about this – on the basis of your interpretation of the interpretation of the interpretation, let me respond to some untruths. We're going to do this all day, so I'm asking you for the interactivity to answer our findings, so that we can answer your questions more easily. I quote: "In the future, the position of culture must not deteriorate; no activity supported by the Ministry of Culture must go back. An analysis of the area of self-employed people in culture has shown that this group is in a poor material and social situation, and shows many signs of inequality, signs of extreme poverty. We will pay special attention to this and, on the basis of further analyses, propose ways for a fair and self-employed longer-term better regulation of this area." That's what you said, Minister. You continue: “It will be necessary to start a dialogue, which is already taking place in the Ministry, which will lead to an integrated solution to the status of self-employed creators in culture.” In these words, I would close the book and fall asleep if I read it to the child — good words, good intentions. But today's picture is completely different, respected minister, and there's no time to say good-bye, it's time for action. What haven't you done in spite of your promises? Since your term of office, you have not established a dialogue with non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in culture. That's not what you're saying. That's what the other side says. So either it's a monologue or it's not a dialogue. To date, you have not formed a permanent dialogue group with non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in culture, who have contributed constructive proposals for the development of the non-governmental sector and self-employed in culture under various ministers and ministers since 2009. Your answers, the well-respected Minister of Culture, go in the direction of denial or unrealistic and impractical proposals, i.e. dialogue – monologue. I quote: “In the text of the interpolation there are many untruths that are not based on real facts.” Dear Minister, allow me to point out some of your untruths and performances that are neither based on real facts nor on verified data. You can check the data yourself in the Statistical Register of the Working Population of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, so the data are verifiable. Among other things, you said: “It should be noted that the proportion of self-employed people in the culture of Slovenia is not exposed to the state. Even more, in the lower part of the scale there is a percentage of self-employed people in culture according to the percentage of all employees in the culture. On the basis of Eurostat data, it does not claim that a third of self-employed persons in culture are self-employed, as indicated in the interpolation text. Self-employed in culture according to all the employees in culture is about a quarter.” Mr. Secretary, I don't know what information you have at your disposal. You can have accurate information, but then you're hiding it. They're probably incorrect, because otherwise they'd be in the Statistical Registry. If you have them, refer them officially to the Statistical Register. It says that in 2015 25 000 282 were active in cultural activities, of which 6 thousand 176 were employed in public institutions and the rest were employed through various civil law contracts. Nearly half of them were self-employed entrepreneurs, and about 2,000,800 of them had a status as self-employed in culture. These are numbers, official, not yours, but the Bureau of Statistics. Among them are the most activities carried out in the field of architecture and design, followed by music, performing art and visual art. Among these, coverage of social contributions by the State benefited 70% of self-employed people in culture. 70% self-employed. According to October 2018, there were 14 000 861 people working in culture, of which 41.18% were self-employed. Dear Minister, when you respond to the deceptions in your response to interpolation, to the incorrect information that is reflected in the culture funding analysis, please respond to these findings of my findings on your numbers. How can we trust you with such an important function, a respected minister, when you have information with which you do not have it, or only you have certain information? Dear Minister - I will soon conclude, at least in this part - let me remind you of another fact. At the 15th urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture, where you presented your cultural policy proposals for the resolution of the most affected sectors in culture to Members and Members, you said: "We know that the self-employed – I have watched income," you said, "from 7 euros one has earned and one has earned 280 thousand. Okay, it's probably this range, but mostly it's people who are -- it's not right to live and do that." “An analysis of the area of self-employed people in culture has shown that this group is in a poor material and social situation and shows many, one would say, not only at the signs of inequality, but at the signs of extreme poverty. We will pay special attention to this and, on the basis of the added analyses, propose ways for a fair and self-employed and longer-term better regulation of this area." This was at the 15th emergency session, and so little time has passed, and you have completely turned your board and your gaze, your esteemed minister. From the savior to--I won't say anything. It is interesting that in your response to the interpolation you are operating with the statement that self-employed people are too much, that the Ministry of Culture is not a social institution, and as you expressed yourself in an interview on the unculture of Slovenian cultural people, that was February 19th, creativity and creativity should be upgraded, not socialism. Dear Minister, Minister of Culture, not Minister of Social Affairs, how will you encourage the creativity of Slovenian culture and the creativity of culturers and artists in such a way that they do not fail? And I'm asking for short and quick answers, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have come to the stage of debate between Members and Members on the interpretation with the discussion of Mr Matjaž German. I now give the floor to Minister Vask Simoniti. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I won't be obliged not to spend all my time, because I have less than everyone else, but this was a little overwhelming in some kind of word-word stick, I couldn't write it all down, you know what I'd say? - so I can answer you competently. But I'll try to answer some things briefly. In particular, these indications you are speaking relate more or less to the period of the last 10 years and so on. Not to avoid your responsibility in the last year, absolutely not, but it's a time bow. You're saying that we have groups for dialogue with NGOs and so on, and I'm wondering if you guys know what happened in those 10 years, that half the self-employed are actually on the brink of poverty, and no one is helping them. This surprises me in view of your diligence and diligence and, of course, the great ability that you demonstrate, especially when you know everything about culture and know everything and know what is superior art, what we can compare with athletes without being able to list it – give me five top artists from what you think, not from what I know. To tell if they are supremely and globally known. Last time I had a problem with a lady here who was talking nonsense. But it's okay. Secondly, you said that I wouldn't survive in the American system. It's an insult, tiny, sneezing. I'm telling you, if you weren't a politician, you wouldn't survive here. You'd never survive because you don't know anything. Nothing. You don't know anything! Nothing! Nothing! So it wouldn't happen. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I understand, procedurally, I will come after you, Koprivc, and then you will. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	After the debate, it will be procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	You wouldn't survive here. Since I've achieved everything I've achieved here, look, somewhere a man is born. You think people didn't go to school in Italy and they didn't go to school in Austria? Or what?Oh, my God! Do you think I should be grateful to anyone for that? No one. I've done everything myself, I know a lot of things you have no idea about, and I'd survive everywhere. You wouldn't have spent 10 minutes here unless you were living out of your party, which we know how to power. Second thing. Here we have heard the words of a gentleman of advanced kinds, from the most backward party, which is to walk around with foamy mouths, and please, Mr Vice-President, for the second time to prevent these instigations that go by the way, but are based. And talking about having an iliber click with us and using some low-level strategies and stuff. Please, if you hold on to this, given how you are with you and how you understand the world and what are clicks and – what would you say? – what is honesty and understanding of democracy. I can argue here for a long time, but given the graves you allow yourself in your backseat party, which is nothing like nothing, except one trompetengold, you have to be careful for the second time. Watch out for a little bit. Because a client with no ideas and – what would you say? – only a falsification of an ideology that you represent, please, it is a trumpetengold ideology, very well known in politics. In Russia, they call it "castral gold" or castral gold. It's you. When you dare my client to read iliberically and in the text of interpolation to talk about the fascist image, when you dare to do such things, we will know how to speak because you know nothing about it and thus cover up the criminal nature of the previous system that means to you, and you hide it and say something about it 80 years ago because these things are not here. Do you understand, the ones in front of 80? But those 40 years ago, when the killings were done, they worked concentration camps, and no one wants to talk about it. That's what your role models were doing. It's an embodiment, an incarnation of evil, and it's you and your ancestors. So we can agree on what we're talking about. The last party left here is talking about foam mouths and so on. Listen, what I heard about this gentleman is like listening to Vinko Hafner or Boris Ziherl. It is. That's terrible, from some third-rate textbooks. You're not offering anything and you're just reading it. You're not offering anything. Here, now and today, tell us how the self-employed will be solved, what you will give them, how they will do, which groups will come in and be fine. I did everything I could, and I can see that you didn't read our answer to the interpretation, because it's all written inside, including the self-employed, that half the culturers are on the edge and so on. Yes, there is also Eurostat in there, but the tables are very clear on what and how. If we go to the field of ideology, listen, I am happy to accept this and I am very pleased because my party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, is a democratic party and is worried and happy and trying to ensure prosperity for all the free spirit. While your client is unable to do so and has always worked against people and never for people. I can take it easy, and look, we'll go from case to case. Never again, I ask you in my modesty and my modesty that you don't set things up, that you know what I'd do in America or not. Really, you really don't have to. You don't have to. Sir, in Trieste, the Chinese won't trust you to sell. Now here's the deal. As far as independent media is concerned, I've silenced them and I don't know what. That's what Mr. Nice was talking about. Please tell me an example of which media has failed, which media – I don't know where Mr. Beauty is – I personally prevented him from living, how many people have lost his job, where, when, who. Because of their forgiveness in the newspapers controlled by leftist tycoons, which are millionaires, journalists have paid thousands of euros, and they have fired several hundred people in the main media for the last four or five years. So these bombastic words that you're actually preparing for the audience -- because there's going to be a misstep here, you know? Here we're going to talk about the same thing, most people are already determined about everything, because there's nothing to it. Maybe it's five, six people who cut, but otherwise it's known, it's a misinterpretation, we'll listen for 14 hours, I'll listen to the same thing every hour, that's it. I know how it goes. Independent media, if I have silenced – it has been said that we have silenced and committed madness over them and so on – please list one case that has lost according to ours – what would you say? – A rough relationship of whatever and whatever else has gone down. But it is true that no one buys these media anymore because no one reads them because they are not worth reading. But it's not an attack, it's a finding. Mrs Divac said a number of things that have been identified in the LMŠ by all kinds, the same things have been put into play – in LMŠ, the customer, listen, I don't know what backdrop you have to judge the same thing, what art is, what art is, and so on, and you tell me where it comes from. Yeah, just like you. I don't know, I'm just responsible for, here we even have a pyramid set up, clear, unequivocal and, of course, perfectly correct and by all laws and rules. If I have violated anything by marriage, please, now it has been said, "let them sue". Yes, surely, it is necessary to take the path in which it will clearly show how and what. But they were here because of associations and I don't know what they were complaining about, and the Ombudsman said nicely that in fact these things, what they're writing, don't hold that everything is okay and that nothing is wrong. Please, the rest of you, initiate procedures as you think you're going to activate them. There was talk of culture being given less. Culture in the past year cannot be affected in this sense to take something away from it in order to disable it or anything. The only thing that was an obstacle was this disease, which was clearly mentioned at the outset, and also in my response to the interpolation, it clearly states how much more money it received, 68 million from culture for the additional reasons of the disease. However, we have left all the software everywhere and also for the work facility. So it just doesn't hold. The public fund for cultural activity, the lady talked about it – I think Mrs Divac, I cannot go in line because you are giving me too many questions and given that I have studied here and not abroad, I have a lower IQ and I find all that difficult, you already know, because you have studied a lot outside, how it goes, but let's say it's a little harder for me. But the Public Fund for Cultural Activities – you know what? This is actually one of the foundations of Slovenian culture, this amateur culture, the amateur culture that lives on, which is given great recognition and has never been denied funding, at least not on my part. I think that this is the essence that needs to grow throughout Slovenian territory and from which we get what some Members are saying is that you become world-famous and comparable, say, with Dončić or something that I think is a little bit stupid. But it's okay. It's media legislation. There was no media legislation, indeed after the accident of the first five days, that public debate was rightly that people reacted, but we also reacted in our house. If you know anyone, you will see that there were quite a lot of uplifting tones, because logically it was necessary to do this for a two-month debate and it was done and so on. So I don't know. With the public fund, I would say that even in the Presidency, we will focus on the Europe Cantat from which it originates, and let us hope that we will indeed be able to bring 2,000 singers here and so on, all that follows from this that I will not repeat. The lady who spoke about this probably knows very well because, when I was heard, Cantat was talking about this Europe, and I supported it without hesitation at that time, because I think it is right and that the atmosphere and identification with the European Union should be done here. That's what this is about. The fact that culture has gone out and so forth. Yeah, I don't have any more excuses than that - what do you say? – what's been happening in Europe and happening. You know that today, let's say Paris is closed, that in Vienna it is worse than in Ljubljana, that things are happening everywhere that are not good for anyone, that some people are unhappy, but most people understand that. We also see this situation swinging, worsening, and different stakeholders, and it is very difficult to coordinate. This is what the Government does together with the NIJ and in fact adheres to these measures and seeks the best solutions with good intentions. I don't think anyone's coming to their senses, because we've spent a lot of time solving this covid disease, which has been burdening us in one way or another. Someone dared to mention the change in the management board of the Prešeren Fund. I have a problem with God, but I would ask if God could help this Lord, because that is inappropriate to extremes, insulting to some people whom those who have said it do not reach their knees, not in any way. Even let him show his degree if he has one, because you're always doing this stupid thing with your diplomas. Let's see what he's like and what he's like by the man who wrote 100 books. Come on, come on, give me one basic dignity. It's a shame. It's a shame. You think if a man is an emissary, if he's chosen by 300 people, he can send his brains to the whole world. Please, a little restraint and some elementary dignity. If you give me arrogance, cynicism, and I don't know everything, cruelty – please. I listened there from that gentleman about the hate speech. Tell me one quote from my hate speech. Where? One, one [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you think that's clear because you don't separate because you're weak in this. The hate speech is this. [[shows the object]] . These are hateful speeches: “SDS entry prohibited”, “Juden Raus”. That's what you are. Don't be shy! Disgusting, disgusting to the extreme! Do you know where this is going?Oh, my God! Do you know where this is going? [[advertising from the hall]] Here, the label. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	Wait till I'm done. To write your one, I don't know what it's called, one man a little stronger figure from your party: “Merry Christmas you filmy animals.” That's what Mr. Smurf said. That he wants merry Christmas holidays, dirty pigs. And don't talk to me about quotes now, because we know how this works. Please. To talk about modern fascism man there, Mr. Koprivc, from a party that is perfect trumpetengold – do you understand? The man can't and you're talking, a while ago, a week ago a proposal from the Slovenian Academy of Devices came out. [[…]] It was ignored by the media. Has anyone here said anything about this? You don't understand things, you don't understand history, you don't understand anything. Do you understand? These are terrible things. No wonder it's Slovenian separation! Here we have a monument to the revolution, where you paint yourself, which encourages people to violence. That's what a monument says to violence! On the other hand, we have a monument talking about coexistence, a so-called reconciliation monument. This is our separation that you cultivate from day to day. This superficiality and bad textbooks, from which you speak some passwords that are unworthy. It's another thing to talk about culture. Culture was not affected in any way, because we provided everything necessary for culture in the past year, what was in the budget made by Mr Poznic and Mr Prešiček before that. They, interestingly – how did they not make a national programme for culture? How is that so with all your skills and knowledge?Oh, my God! What do you mean, everyone who knows all this? It hasn't happened in three years, and you're going to ask me in one year, and every week I have two cultural committees, where I'm actually listening to some roughness and impeccableness. Please! Culture isn't an island in some country where you're going to stand out and stare because thousands of people got laid off in Ormozh yesterday. Will you protest anything, you left-wing men? Nothing! Nothing! [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, you will, come on, come on, come on! You'll bring two banners. Stupid, no. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Give it a rest. Do something! And don't protest, but offer something [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	I'm asking for peace in the hall. No one bothered you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	What can I get you? Offer something! You can't offer, that's your problem. You can't offer. Culture is not an island on its own, but it depends on some kind of sound. I must say, because you mentioned my president here several times because you have problems with him because you are — what would you say? – somehow obsessed with the fact that this Mr President and the whole government are very fond of culture, because otherwise such a financial outcome would not have been achieved as it is, as well as such divisions and such concepts or plans. Someone was talking about a vision. Visions only have those who lead things to killing. I have no visions, I have concepts, plans and views. Please, I think I'll have a lot more, the minister has one more hour and 39 minutes, and in the next 10 hours, we'll hear from each other again, and let's get a little bit of a deal between us, not one and repeat the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A moment of attention. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please disengage, Mr. German. First of all, there is a proposal for a procedure, which is made by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I believe you all like what Mr. Secretary here says. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Please speak up so I can hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	I'll speak out loud and you'll understand. I would kindly ask you if you could remind the Minister that he is a guest in this house, that he should treat Members with respect, but above all, that he should talk about what he writes in the interpretation, not the average of his such and other pains. I don't really care what he thinks about what he thinks, but I'm interested in exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Look. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Just a moment. Let me answer that. Level of discussion, you set the level of debate with your text of interpretation and with the views of your parliamentary groups. If you can charge as a proponent, I'm sure someone can answer these charges, and whoever's tried here is responsible. So much so that we measure with the same vats. If you raise the level of discussion, we will demand the same from others. Same thing. But if you're going to talk and slander and speak disrespectfully and of the parties and of the President of the Government and of the Interpellian, of the Minister, then you can probably expect a reaction to such an action and I think that those who are sitting must be allowed to do so. If the level rises, the level of requirements for those performing and those responsible for responding will also be corrected and raised. It can't just go one way. It's not a one-way thing, but it has to be balanced in this field. I now give the floor to the procedural proposal for more mags. Mark Koprivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Vice-President, after this argument, you are now proving once again that you are absolutely not fit to lead the National Assembly. In fact, if you can find arguments after this appearance of a minister, why this is acceptable in the National Assembly, then something is really wrong. I think what the minister has now vomited, some anger from himself, for the National Assembly is absolutely unacceptable. Mr. Secretary, tell me what part I was insulting to you. And while I was speaking on the phone, you said to me, "Turn away, give me peace, turn away." It can be heard from sound recordings, it's definitely been recorded. I wouldn't want to say it again, but it did. Now you've gone to personal discredits. You people marked: “They are your fatter ones from your party.” You measured or insulted the proposer so he wouldn't survive in the American system. Is that a normal, respected minister? It's not! And please, calm down, because that's what you're saying about yourself and your client. Thank you very much, but I hope that the debate will continue to be more cultural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Dear Mr Koprivc, I ask you to respect Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal relates only to the management process and you must tell which article [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you had a debate. I respectfully ask you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as you, Mr Minister, to be respectful, let us be dignified and carry out the matter for the benefit of all of us Slovenes and Slovenians. Thank you very much, and I suggest we move on. Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. You're interesting to me, Mr. Secretary, you're actually a real self-image. I don't think the better ads you've done to yourself in your performance could have been done. For a moment, I almost thought that we could get out and go to the vote, because everything that is rude, you proved with your own – what would you say? – great implementation, with its under-appreciating relationship. I don't care, you can call me whatever you want, but thank God I can at least walk between culturers and artists in my littleness, and you're very difficult. I doubt it. Dear Minister, you have taken the nerve of the incredible quantifiers that no interpenetrated minister has ever afforded before you. I don't know why you're assigning this special role to us today, but I'm sure you won't push us into those uneducated ones. However, our arguments are more than justifiable, our discussions are concrete and supported by numbers. Dear Minister, please let me answer one of my questions. In its implementation, SDS stated, for example, that the budget for 2019 was € 160 million. For this year, the budgetary cultural sector has increased as, at least so, the official data, and not yours, have been adopted by a budget of 30 million higher. How is it possible that the client who actually runs this department may give incorrect, inaccurate, misleading words? And I'm asking about the facts and I'm not going to go into your vocabulary and your quantifications. Tell me, Your Honor, those who say that artists are not the ones who paint on the walls, as it was said, or are not for those who are offensive, for the top Slovenian artists and artists, tell me something, one justification. We're talking about Goldilocks rapper. I'm not talking about what he's doing in his music, I'm not talking about what he's doing in his spare time, I'm talking about what I've been quoting you, many lawyers, I've been reading earlier. How do you explain your willful involvement in this, your desire to demonstrate power, your authority over everything, just as you have just done with measuring machines? Because you didn't prove anything about the rapper. Moreover, the Ministry of Culture has the rules necessary for it to take a proper approach in such cases. I'm talking about the status of self-employed in culture. On what basis have you taken this decision, which has actually been vehemently rejected by all relevant institutions, and you still say that, pardon me, we are incompetent here, and you are the Minister-General? Your father would have turned around in his grave. I'm sorry. Your Honor, you say we've never been without dialogue to find solutions. We've always accepted everything. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, can you provide me with peace in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Please don't disturb the speaker during the speech. Please. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	You said we were never without dialogue to find solutions for everyone. We've received a change of destination on Metelkova 6. Tell me where, when, who were you in dialogue with for this change. We have a whole series of questions for today and please, hold on to your cynicism and rather deal with the matter that's why you're sitting here. Once again, and I will conclude with this, I still argue that they would not survive in their proposed American system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Lord insists on the same indecencies when he tells me that he would not survive in the American system. I used to work there once, you know, you were pretty much at the state expense there. But good. Please, that's the set-up. Now we're being rude, by the way, you mention my father. I can't stop you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, you said Dad would turn in his grave [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Excuse me, Minister. Please, don't touch the word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Don't make it up. Sir, you said, "Your father would turn in his grave." So, I can't stop you from doing this, just father-son, that's one kind of relationship that you probably don't know or you're very poorly raised. You can talk about this gentleman, who is my father, what you want, with his name and surname, I knew him well, and I know what he would say about you, by the way. And they can do that here, now my relatives, who knew him well, confirm it. So I'd ask you at this level not to go to this and your father's toss. Let's go to the names and surnames, calmly, we can talk about everything, about everything. Because then, I don't know, it could get so simple that we could talk about some women falling out of bed. Or what? I don't know. Do you understand? That's not working. He can't. He can't. So one minimum. About Mr. Chordich. Mr Čordić was then deleted from the register because he acted very unusually to express himself appropriately and kindly. He introduced himself on the road that the journalist, that he didn't know what, harassed the director of one important health institution in Slovenia, his cameraman was talking about that man, he even ran away and so on. I came to work, I've told you many times, I asked who this gentleman is, because I don't know these world-famous people, and they said that this is the gentleman who is also registered with us there, and I told them to check what it is and how it is. And then, in fact, the professional services decided to delete it. Okay. He complained and got back and now he's back. The proceedings are still ongoing, things are being identified about his property status, his work, things have turned out to be parallel to some societies and so on. I can, I don't know who's there to do that. Nor did the Lord declare some of his duties, which he had to declare as self-employed, and he violated certain rules. Now we're gonna put all this together and we're gonna make a decision and we're gonna do it. So it was with a world-renowned – probably for you, I don't know, I didn't know who it was either – some Luke Bassi, some singers, I think he was wiped clean. I had nothing to do with it. I had something with Čordić, though, because when it happened and we saw it, of course I followed these things. It just happened the way it did. I hope that this will continue now, carefully, precisely through the offices that are behind it. I think that in certain years the gentleman has not even reported his income, as it is necessary, has not reported his company, I don't know, or later, he doesn't hold my tongue right now, but he can, because I have written two pages and a half about it here, but I'm going to lose too much time because I'm going to have to defend myself here tomorrow. This is all that has to do with Mr Čordić. I think it's actually true, if we're already in the self-employed, this rotter that's spreading this area has become so wide that it's no longer a criterion – it's the criteria, but then it's also not respected when it's chosen and it's given permits or contributions or entries and so on. When I came to the Ministry, in January and February I do not know how many of these entries or contributions have already been approved. We came in March, March, and April, and I was even less careful if you wanted to, but then I thought it was kind of strange that I was getting terrible points in my signature, and of course I got a little deeper and I looked and I saw. What happened? The things I asked for to be more reasoned were poorly reasoned and we bungled, we went back, forward, I don't know what it was, it took, and the commission had to accept it once a month or twice, anyway. And it just got dragged away. These explanations were about what the Constitutional Court is now giving. This may have been really good for them because they were nothing. People at these world’s famous universities are probably so educated. If the criterion is that the Constitutional Court does not draw decisions, there are probably other lawyers. We have demanded that the decisions be written clearly and comprehensively. We gave a few examples in response to the interpolation. If they're not good, I don't know; that's the range we can and follow. From now on there will also be a carefully guided view, a careful process of granting these privileges will be conducted. I still think it's because, after all, if a drummer has a primary school drum and this privilege, I don't know why I couldn't have a graduate sociologist with an FDV or God don't give it to the Faculty of Philosophy or any better college. That's all. There are no secrets, no evil, no evil. But I think — that’s really a question — I’m not asking you for help at all: how wide are we going in the way we distribute this rotter to these self-employed people? Should we let all the poppers in, or should we let everyone in? That's one question now. But it's true that then we bump, you have backstage customers in the concept of paying for everything, and we, normal customers, look at it simply in a way that we have to follow people's rewards after work and that this creativity is measurable and I don't know what. Of course, to a certain extent it is difficult, but what criteria must be. We have established these criteria, so they have already been established, some of us have examined whether they will further sharpen, set up, problem-stricken rules, and so on and so on, all of your famous, advanced ministers have simply changed such rules in two months, and no one has said anything. And there have also been no major changes in these regulations, there are 3, 5, 7, we have given only that there may also be a member of the Ministry of Culture, because they are usually professionals, experts in charge of the procedures. That's the whole secret. Or maybe some mistake has been made. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, 'cause I really don't want to keep things in the air. I mentioned earlier, in the undertones, that my father would address himself in the grave, and I would just like to clarify the matter. My father was an artist too, he's a sculptor, and if we were on the Committee on Culture more than once, we'd know that I quote him more than once. Why and in what context? He too has been self-employed in culture and we talk about them many times. I have also often said that he would probably be in the market of the Republic because he would fight for his status. There'll be no misunderstandings that we won't go personal. And yet in every sentence of yours, you take the opportunity to insult us, just as we are now backward, you are advanced. But I won't go into it, you say it and you tell your culture to culture and to the debate about culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We finally got to the debaters. The word has the first registered Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear guests, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpolation and the request for the resignation of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, is called for because the Minister for Culture and the Ministry for which he is responsible works. However, because it is responsible for the work of the President of the Government to the citizens and, of course, to some extent also to the National Assembly and to us who have been elected from the citizens, the interpretation is therefore legitimate, but it could also be more serious, not for some of the imaginary reasons and every time flies from the Levic Group, the Group of Social Democrats and the company. So for the reasons you see those good representatives of the people from the failed KUL group, who you have presented yourself as some of the greatest hope and solution of Slovenia before the government of Janez Janša, and of course its ministers, such as Mr Simoniti. But what is evident to the minister is that he is working, that he is responsible, that changes are happening, as is happening under every new minister, and there are positive changes happening, to the better, to the good of Slovenian culture. What do you say to the Minister of Culture? We've heard this a number of times today, so it doesn't make any sense to repeat it, but let me summarize a few things briefly. That Minister Simoniti is the worst and most harmful cultural minister in the history of independent Slovenia, so is colleague Tomić. This minister is even supposed to be corrupt and inter alia advocates a government war against culturers and the media. “The Minister has not yet established a dialogue with NGOs and cultural workers, which he has promised before taking office”; he has submitted a regulation on the expert commissions of the Ministry of Culture and has ensured a decisive influence with which he manages and allocates funds.” Yes, colleagues and colleagues, but if the programmes are still financed through calls? It's actually an unsubstantiated frame of mind and accusation. If such things were to happen so that they were not actually done according to the rules, the operators of the unelected and consequently unfunded programmes have the right to complain, and then they also choose the routes and others. If I may continue to express myself a little further, the Minister is also guilty of being a covida crisis. The motioners state that the so-called coronary crisis has cast cultural workers and independent creators even deeper into the chasm and poverty, which Minister Simoniti has not prevented. At the same time, the interpretation states that one third of cultural workers and independent creators were already living below the poverty threshold before the colliding crisis, so you claim that one third of the creators, including our artists, lived under the poverty threshold before the closure of activities and cultural events and everything. Well, that's a true claim, isn't it? At that time, he was another minister, one of the types of candidates and not Mr Simoniti. If I make a little joke, this minister is to blame if it is out of the sun and it is warm because the Group of Social Democrats is too hot if it is out of cold and cold, because the Group of the Left is cold, if it is rain, because it is wet with the candidates in the LMŠ Group, and, of course, if the covid crisis is because they are sick in the SAB Group. This is all the fault of this ugly and uncultured culture minister. If I go to more serious matters and defend this minister who works. In fact, in the opinion of the people, sometimes there is a minister who is good, but in the view of the second group that sits in the ranks of the Members, it is not. But this minister would now be guilty even if some cultural or uncultured creator had himself as a top creator, but people think he's on average every, I don't know, street cartoonist or cartoonist, and then this quasi-arter hasn't even had bread, and he's been doing the same thing for 10 years. If he does not deserve anything — let us be honest if we have been doing something for 10 years that we do not deserve and cannot survive, would we continue to do so? I don't throw it all in the same basket, but for things like that, these are really ridiculous claims. If I go back to the debate and the interpretation of Simonita, which is being intertwined today because it's not yours. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a mistake for you to think that this minister is not yours because he is the Minister for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. If you don't want to or if you don't want to, this secretary is all yours. For this reason it would not be necessary to interpret it and, since the beginning of its term of office, for more than a year, actually beat it, condemn it, because I do not see any of you who wouldn't somehow respond, sometimes even with any more picro back if it happened to him what was happening to the Minister. If not, I also need to give a good word to our proponents, especially Levi. They also caused us to have many convened meetings at the time of the coronary disease, so that we all have too much and even more work to do. A lot of work has also been done for the minister, because he has to respond to all these letters and all these obviouss. Your desire for justice and freedom in the field of culture, because censorship is supposed to be carried out, I will say domestically, to all of us and, of course, to the Minister, they are often stealing time. We had meetings with really banal content. Our cultural defenders are usually biased, but then, of course, they play in the light that it is for the benefit of all Slovenian cultural workers and creators, they fight to preserve their old rights and also some of the privileges of their supporters and voters. That's a simple conclusion. You don't have to go to college to find out. It should be known, however, that the legal conditions for the ministry's operation cannot be laid down by us. The Minister is responsible for this. It was also clear to the Minister that he was involved in the work of the commissions and then that these commissions were now biased and so on. But that's what these expert commissions and ministers are responsible for, and we can't be responsible for that at D.C. Before something starts to work, before anything changes, if it's not all for the benefit of left-wing culture or non-culture, as I say, then it's a revolt, we go to the streets, encourage the minister to get rid of the facade at home and so on. I don't think that's right. Once again, if I go back to these committees, to what was obvious. The Commission must be professional and competent, have experience and evaluation of talent, quality and added value, of course in the light of the development of Slovenian culture and the preservation of this. Since it is a matter of resources, since funds are then also distributed through these commissions, there are increasing factors and not always all as black and white as they try to show themselves. But, as I say, it is ultimately the responsibility of the minister that all of this works fairly and transparently. I believe he's aware of that, too. I see that it does not deviate from professional and impartial criteria and establish some order. And I must say, go ahead, Minister Dr. Simoniti. However, I must say that it is worth condemning that this minister is called an uncultured cultural minister to be shown corruption, then censorship, a person with a doctorate, with an exceptional kilometre in the field he leads. And then you actually think it's funny why he responds with a slightly higher tone. Yeah, well, you could all use a little girl down there, too. Minister, let's keep this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Rudi Bear, to be prepared by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. It is no wonder that the largest party in the SDS Parliament is constantly and constantly surprised by the interpolation, but it itself has a very rich history with the invested – I think about 30, maybe less or more – interpolation. In the same breath, when colleagues and colleagues say that it is perfectly legitimate, on the other hand, it is an attack on the government, a waste of time, money, and who knows what else. There's probably going to be some kind of interpolation, because the interpolation material is more every day. Even a minister or a minister who has already received an interpretation may be asked for a new one. But let me get back to today. After what we have heard from the Minister of Culture and also now from colleagues from his party, in Slovenia, the culture is drained of honey and milk. Amazingly, everything's fine, everything's fine, the minister's doing great, and he's actually the best thing that could have happened to us. However, I ask which screen this film is running on or on which stage this play is playing — none, because we are closed anyway. Or perhaps in a parallel world in which we have no insight. But in the world, respected and respected, in the world in which we live, there is cultural silence in Slovenia. And literally, it's not symbolic. This has been happening here for more than a year now, since 7 March last year, since that event that took place because of the responsible conduct of the then health minister Aleš Šabedr in the government of Marjan Šarc, did not happen when he cancelled the Italian tenor Andree Bocelli's concert in Stožice at the last minute, luckily because the Stožice could have been another Ischgl. In those circumstances, and even later, this eclipse of public life was somehow understandable, not unexpected. But time was moving and we knew more about this virus from month to month, even in the first wave as well as we managed and in all areas, we tried at least partially, at least partially, to return to normal life and to open up many activities. But not for culture. Not for culture. This isn't your turn. As we now look a year ago, this year behind us, it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the current authorities were in the right position to maintain the state of cultural silence at that time and obviously fit it today. True, the epidemic has turned off the light when we're talking about culture, but we'd expect a culture minister to come along with at least a kerosene. At least with a kerosene. Because all the time, throughout Europe, the epidemics around us have been looking for solutions and encouraging, promoting creativity and creating special funds in many European countries not only to help the creators themselves, but also to finance creativity during the epidemic. And what seems even more important to me is to support creative expert groups that have been looking for and looking for new formats to connect cultural creation with those that are ultimately meant for this creativity, and this is with the audience. The culture without the audience is amputated, it is disabled, and we can probably all agree on it together. What has happened or happened to us? I don't remember any attempt, let alone effort, anywhere I could see that the Minister of Culture, together with the creators, the organizers of the event were looking for solutions how, despite the limited possibilities that we all understand together, at least partially revive the cultural offer. At certain times and with a willingness to respect all measures, this was possible in the last year. It was possible. Today, too, it is still possible to do something in certain parts of the country under certain conditions. For example, we have a restaurant terrace at an appropriate distance when it is possible to sit there under certain conditions, and there is no way to listen to a minimalist concert at one of the same venues. I don't know if I've heard it right recently, but I'm guessing even on the terraces of the guesthouses that are open, even the music can't be played through the speakers. We could do this without clapping if it means too much danger to spread the virus. And we also let people into malls, and we didn't put them in cultural halls. We are not in the cultural halls, with all the awareness of the threat of the epidemic and with all the awareness that many across Europe and around the world have been looking for opportunities within it, but not with us. Just not with us. I don't know if the minister has ever tried to propose something like this to the expert group and the National Institute of Public Health. I don't think so. Has he ever taken any initiative in this section? Has this section ever considered an initiative, even if it has rejected it? No, I don't remember that ever happening. Here, of course, we can see the passivity, the total passivity of the cultural minister and his associates. The Minister of Economy was loud enough to achieve economic performance in the worst times, and it was proved that jobs were a strong source of infection. I'm a culture minister in the direction of at least opening up some of the cultural space, but I didn't hear it. Or I have heard too much, but I'm sure everyone who works in Slovenia with culture would know about it and who also see this passivity as a cultural minister. On the other hand, it's not surprising. How would you care for the welfare of people who belong under the department of the Minister of Culture if they mainly show cultural attachment to the trough? I now also hear from my colleagues in the SDS that they are talking about left-wing culture, that those who critically express themselves about the cultural policy of the current government or ministry are artistic prostitutes. And also SDS-type quantifiers, from which the minister did not distance himself, that parasites are strung on the state's mangers to create degenerate art. These are all some slaps to cultural creators, and this is the attitude towards those creators, cultural workers who have been asking, begging and calling for dialogue since the first day of the Minister's ministry and trying to explain their position. They mostly run into ignorance, silence and silence. We are not talking about money or how much the budget of the Ministry of Culture has increased, but on the other hand, what the achievement is that public institutions are normally financed – yes, they are, of course, something else, because they have to be normally financed. I know very well the financing of public institutions. I myself have had the honour of leading a larger public cultural institution for several years, and I know what the funding structure is and in what circumstances it survives or falls into a public institution. Since the Ministry of Culture has not proposed all this, we have proposed a number of proposals in the List of Marjan Šarc and in other opposition parties, so have workers in culture, in NGOs. Of course, none of this has ever been accepted according to tradition. One of the first requirements was to establish a respectful, inclusive dialogue with all the stakeholders in the sectors to which the pandemic co-op has a particularly negative impact, including with regard to the creative and cultural sector and the meeting industry, and to prepare a timetable with all the unknowns that we know exist because of the epidemic, to prepare a timeline and to relaunch activities related to public events. And to ensure that sectors with more than 40% of their turnover are affected more permanently, especially in the cultural and creative sector and the meeting industry, additional liquidity is provided to establish a fund to adapt to the pandemic. It's nothing new. Most European countries have set up such funds. Most European countries. You can nod, Minister, but there's a list of countries that have gone this way towards the cultural sector. Our proposal was also that the system of valuations should be extended to all sectors that are more permanently affected by the consequences of the pandemic and that plans for the introduction of tourist vouchers should be extended to the creative and cultural sector and that these proposed measures, which, of course, have come across deaf ears in the whole government, unfortunately also in the Ministry of Culture. I am talking about this, but above all, that at least part of this cultural offer could have been maintained at the time of responsible policy and initiative, that it was not a major achievement in the epidemic if galleries and museums had opened up for some time. Much more could happen, there should be knowledge of infrastructure through Slovenia, cultural infrastructure, there should also be knowledge of the involvement of individual organisers, including flexibility, ingenuity, and, above all, it is important to know that this is what people, people who miss, really miss culture want. Internet events and television events cannot replace this lively contact between the audience and the creators. The fact is, in particular, that these people want to work in some way, to maintain a creative condition and that they want to have some minimum prospects for the future. Like I said, I'm not talking about money. The example of a self-employed person in culture in these times. I'm talking about a specific person, and I'm not going to use my name and last name to make sure someone doesn't get erased from any sign, even if they don't want to hurt anyone. The top musician, composer, is very famous and recognized both in Slovenia and in the wider European space. He doesn't say he's broke, he gets that 700. He gets these 700 euros, of course not when there is no declared epidemic. Not at the time, of course, but there were no concerts and events at the time, as we all know that public events in all possible places did not erupt just the next day after the flight. There was no profit in the summer either. I know that you, Minister, have completely different criteria for what are remarkable achievements, and you have also told him many times about what you think about this extraordinary achievement, in which case I can tell you that it is an extraordinary achievement – it is affected, that the Minister then tells him that he is privileged, because, for the first time, he has this privilege of being self-employed in culture. They're privileged to you. There is also a special privilege for the 700 Euros that it now receives. This is some kind of insult to these people. What kind of privilege are they? The privileged are in this sense, yes, that they can carry out this profession. This profession is a special privilege for me, I have had many opportunities in life to have contact with cultural people and it is a special profession, it is a privilege, but not in a financial sense, to be measured with the privileged. These are people with remarkable achievements, but they are entirely due to the system we have set up, and this is not from yesterday, and on the other hand they are extremely poor. Exquisite achievements and extraordinary poor people. But, I'm saying, I'm not saying it's from yesterday. I just wanted to say what kind of situation some self-employed artist with 700 euros was in these times. The second case is even worse, the case of a self-declared entrepreneur. Without them, we know that cultural events are practically impossible. Since March last year he has been cut off from his work, completely cut off, which is understandable if nothing can happen and everything is stopped. He gets a thousand 100 euros, 550 of them are contributions, and he's got 550 left to live on. Given that it is in grave fear, when will the moratoriums on credit expire because of the 550 euros it will have to or will not be able to repay the loan at all. Here – we have been alerting ourselves all the time – for independent entrepreneurs, who are also part of cultural affairs in this case, nothing has happened. This was not the case in Austria, for example, where the country reacted virtually immediately with cash refunds on their turnover in 2019 and will then identify and calculate these amounts. In short, a man who has paid 400 000 euros in taxes in 10 years is currently in a situation where he is not to live and not to die. It's in there somewhere. If I mention another example of a film maker. We know what happened to the movie last year, and it's still happening, and I'm going to mention the movie Orchestra. Also because I may have a little emotional attachment to it because it speaks of the SVEA in Zagor, 160 years of culture is the subject of this film, it was recorded on February 2nd last year and it stands since the country has not settled its obligations by the end of the year. More than 50 people thus lost their pay, the costs they incurred were not settled, and so this film is practically half in the bunker now, because also the situation of assembly, post-production and it does not allow it. We do not, for example, have the Italians who, after the first wave, produced an accurate protocol for the audiovisual industry in a situation of coronaryism or pandemic, an accurate protocol from recording to all other activities accompanying the production of a film. Why did they do it? Because they're proud of their film, of their film production. Obviously, we did not, or by the outbreak, push the film aside, including with a hair-pulled excuse that the Sharchev government was guilty of some administrative obstacles, so that in 2020 the filmmakers could not afford to pay the funds they had been earmarked for. Come on, that's actually a stupid excuse. This government has reached out to ten in a year, and I don't think she's ever counted them, laws in a variety of ways. Such an administrative obstacle, if it really exists, during the pandemic and during the time of defending the interest of the film industry, if I wanted to, I would be able to remove it like this. [[shows with gesture]] . This has not happened and, for example, this film by director Matevž Luzar is now recorded for a year, and nothing is happening to it in its entirety. The festivals will be, if the film is not finished, if the costs are not settled, it cannot apply to the festivals and it went literally to nothing. These are the privileged ones you're talking about, Minister. I repeat, I think their privilege is indeed this work they do in culture, that it is their privilege and that they love to do it all together. They like to work and they love to do things. If I paraphrase you, the minister who said in this House that you did not like to listen to yourself and you went, after what I found in support of the cultural sector for as limited as possible, but some kind of impetus to the cultural offer, this passivity of yours has shown that you are also not loved by the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	Thank you very much. She's Violet Tomic's proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I took some time to listen to some discussions and answers and opinions. I'll do my best, Minister, not to mention any names. I won't be personal. The fact is, the cultural sector has always been neglected. In all 30 years, it was somehow misinterpreted, but the SDS party recognized the exceptional importance of this department, which also covers the media, and you took it. And now we have what we have. In particular, the Minister speaks of how unacceptable this interpolation is and that this is only happening in a more exceptional situation when laws and constitutions are violated. Now let's write it down a little bit. In the interview, we said very specifically that the Minister violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the first and second indents, then the Law on the Film Centre, in violation of Article 4 of the ZUJIK, then violated the Law on the Legal Procedure, Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Self-employed Regulation, Article 87 of the ZUJIK, Article 222 of the Law on Legal Procedure, Article 5 of the Regulation, Article 11 of the Regulation, Article 15 of the ZUJIK, Article 20 of the ZUJIK and the Constitution in Article 7, which states that Slovenia is a lay country and that we have a constitutional separation of the State and Church. You say they need to be given equality before the law, and I agree that equality must be guaranteed to every citizen and representative of any organisation. But religious workers are highly privileged, Minister. Each organisation is required to provide some evidence of income losses, but unfortunately only the RCC has nothing to do with receiving strong land-book-based non-payments, and at the time of the epidemic there is a whole set of other ratings. Okay, they get 700 Euros of basic income, Slovenia is a refugee in the world, first helping the richest and not those who are at risk. But they don't have to prove equality, and you never say that it's a privilege, which is very interesting. Their contributions are paid 100 % of the average wage and only 60% of the minimum wage for self-employed workers and espams. Where equality is, I don't know. Saying that the status of a prize or privilege is totally scandalous and unacceptable. Your attitude towards self-employed people should be a reason to interpret, because what privilege is it to have someone with a status without any work rights, no chance for a hospital, except after 30 days of hospital? What is the privilege of not taking credit, and so on? This is simply some correction due to poor solutions, because we know that employment has stopped after ZUJIK, and because there are no regular jobs, these people are forced to be self-employed. The admission of self-employed persons into culture gives these cultural workers a special status that allows them to carry out their work and put accounts on them. The additional incentive, however, is some point advantage that the status will bring on the tenders. Here I'm going to touch what you've been pushing down on a erased artist all along, that he had some kind of institution and some kind of society. You know, all self-employed artists – and once again you show complete ignorance of matter – especially those who are their producers have a registered institution or society as a legal entity that executes projects. If we go with a rapper, for example. If he gets 5,000 euros from the Ministry of Culture, it's not his fee. What you're doing is malicious. Or if he gets another 5,000 euros in funding. These are resources for translations, music, studio payments or whatever. Many artists work for free until I don't know which repetition to get to zero. So what you're doing is deliberate and extremely malicious. You say that the media only show one side and how terrible this is because they never publish another opinion. 26. 3. you yourself have proposed a deadline for a visit to the European Parliament in Brussels, where it has been confirmed. You say you're not allowed to defend yourself, but besides having your own media, you're always invited to all shows, from Channel A, Pop TV to nationals, but if you give up this option yourself, it's your business. 26. 3. Janez Janša and I decided not to go there. You would like to normalize the cultural space, you said where some new ethical and cultural rules would apply, and I would like to ask you how it is with your response when you say such things as “go to Bucharest, Romania engaged”, and thus cause an international scandal. I will not mention names, but a fellow actor wrote in an interview that if we spit on anyone else as much as we spit on cultural workers in Slovenia, there would be a great revolution. This government deliberately protects against cultural workers all the time, and even before you were in opposition, you worked hard. I will deliberately release the most vulgar so that we will not be harmed here if it is so written about taxi drivers, nurses, bakers, waiters, hotelists, social workers, tourism workers, it would be terrible: “we don’t need them”, “whoever looks at them”, “turned”, “disgusting”, “untalented”, “dealings”, “pigs”, “pigs”, “cortical rotes of the Zajedravska”, “the wastes of the Slovenian people”, “the most excruciating”, “the sick perverts”, “shoot all”, “the gang of narcotics, on the bush”, and then something very vulgar, which I will not, “let them out if they don’t like” and so on. In short, someone consciously decided to openly hate and humiliate culturers, and immediately we hear the words of true Christian culture, which is the only welcome. Look, this is dangerous. And here, we've heard about this pay phone about culturers as frauds and charlatans. Have any of you ever seen how a movie is made, say? How do you get lazy people to make movies? They get up at 5:00 in the morning and work every day for 12 hours. And you think they're getting too much money and they can take it off. Very well especially those who have never been in any cultural or artistic process, you judge what is and what is not true culture. Really dangerous and unacceptable. Culturals with status, you know, aren't just creators. Because of the impossibility of a chastity relationship in recent years, there are also stage designers, archaeologists, archivists, librarians, art historians, galleries, curators, conservators, restorers, translators, gallerymen, editors, cinematographers, really wide-ranging fans. Not because this status is so attractive, my dears, but because otherwise these people with some kind of education can't work. And when you talk about these privileges to reduce the number of self-employed, say – only the highest and highest according to your criteria – how do you assess censorship. The top internationally recognised experts in their field, internationally recognised artists must not earn more than 20,000 euros a year. Then cut the censor for the highest, that would be one of the solutions. It is very sad that the Ministry has not even considered measures. Now you are boasting about the cultural euro, which, of course, you did not introduce, but something just ahead of you and you inherited it. Also boast of a record budget. Of course, the fiscal rule has been lifted. So far, all governments have had to respect the fiscal rule and have not been able to spend indefinitely. But the bigger question is, where will the money go, because you or this government is in charge of our money, of our joint money, not of yours, to share candy with your own? And our children and our grandchildren are going to pay for this, so it's still important where you're going to direct this money, because for now, culture doesn't even know it. For example, nearly a thousand and 50 measures taken by the EU countries with Great Britain in 2020 due to the epidemic are well known. You said, “Yes, but you tell us how to solve this.” The measures are collected and run by the European Association of Fiscal Councils, mainly because it wants to assess their effectiveness. You can look there, most of them are generic. It is said that they subsidise waiting for work, loans and tax adjustments, assistance to tourism and hospitality and almost all European Union countries have also helped culture and art in the last year. Even Hungary, by which you like to follow your example, here we have an orbanization, provided artists with a special aid package, but Slovenia does not. Slovenia is characterized by silence. If I move on. We've heard a lot of untruths here, and I regret to have to be manipulated in this way, but well, our nation is feeding our evidence, you've referred to a magnetogram yourself. Another eclectic, I'll tell you what's wrong is that the Ombudsman saw that everything was okay. It's not all right. The Ombudsman has detected violations in the granting of self-employed status in culture. You're waving one piece of paper, I've got another one here, Minister. These are cases where the Ministry has delayed issuing decisions to register self-employed persons in culture or to recognise the right to pay contributions. The Ombudsman recommended to the Ministry that the remaining applications be decided as soon as possible. He also recommended that future procedures should be guided by the purpose pursued by the legislator, in particular in the light of the protection of the rights of applicants. And what you said was, "We didn't take status from anyone." And then you call it in the same breath: "We just erased it because of inappropriate behavior," or, "I don't know, our organs drove it." The criteria for removal from the alert are perfectly clear. That's what I started saying when you got up, left the session, and said you didn't like listening to yourself anymore. The criteria are two if you overcome censorship and if you are not a resident of the Republic of Slovenia, you may lose your status. None of these criteria were met by the rapper you deleted, and this is really more than unacceptable. I'm going to take a minute for later, because I actually have very little time for as many violations as you, Minister Simoniti, have been practicing in the last year. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm listening to this whole thing. For the introduction, I would say that we do not talk here about fathers and sons, that there will be no mistake, even though fathers were both proposers and ministers not just culturers, they were top artists, due to all due respect. We are talking about a difficult sector, its policy and its responsibilities and its content. This is the subject of today's debate. One of the SDS members said that we cannot answer in the National Assembly. After two years, it would be time for those of you who are here for the first term to open the Constitution, at least 110., 114. “The Government responds to the National Assembly” concludes Article 110. That's just the way it is for introductions. The key problem seems to me in all this story is that in 30 years of independence we did not break the myth of a poor artist or artist who is very cut out especially on this right side. One myth to be happy if you get a little bit, and be quiet. Someone on the right was talking, yeah, well, if you've been doing something for 10 years and you're hitting some poverty, you're a little bit - I don't know what. While he was saying this, I remembered Emerik Bernard, one of our top painters, who, even over the past 15 years, had been talking about poverty, that, as they say, where Sava comes to Donavo, it was “the furnace of the craft”. We also have problems here understanding culture, understanding the economy, understanding tourism. When preparing for this interpolation, someone said to me, well, you know, because this Simoniti isn't even that bad, but only for the institutional part of culture and what's okay with them, a little bit for some kind of amateur culture. But what has been said since we have this government reminds me of some cultural policy in the 19th century that has not been over-lit absolute. This cultural struggle that you want to go here too – of course we have a late modernisation pattern, which Mr. Minister as a historian knows more than we do – seems to me more like Slovenia in the last quarter of the 19th century than in the 21st century. Instead of dealing with what is quite plastic and widely discussed by my colleague Rudi, how to start the process of cultural production and consumption – because culture is primarily an interaction – we listen to some statements by Mr Irsič and others. Instead of dealing substantively with the new digital agenda, there are now some fundamental directives on future media legislation in Brussels, we have a situation where the Ministry and the Ministry are supposed to be some kind of judge, a judge. No, no minister is a judge, within that 114th article of the Law, he is responsible for his team and is in charge of what I call a parole. We then have a problem, or you have a problem, that we have a lot of excellence in culture, and it's obviously this disturbing because the top people, unfortunately through this myth of a poor artist, are also some kind of Member among us, a top writer, by the way, people thinking with their heads. If I went down to the level that was before here in the hall, I'd say they don't go to the head. [[…]] And that's obviously some problem that this government has. If my acquaintances, Tina, and Samir, Eclipse, had made a performance in which they would set up a mirror for me, like those John Janša Janez Janša, I would have taken it for granted and well-intentioned. Of course, you have some hatred for some non-institutional culture. As the government's furo politics, this is essentially a cultural policy of an overly advanced state between the two world wars, at least 90 years behind schedule. From time to time, if you wanted, historic neoavantgarde would still be an outdated policy, you know. On your right, you say that you love America more than we do on your left -- jazz was an American soft force, with which they penetrated the socialist minds at the time, as you might say. One of my favorite concerts is Coltrane, Belgrade, I think 1972. I didn't happen to mention that. I always read about athletes all day. We have some of the world's top athletes, with all due respect for them, but we have a lot more top-notch lasers and lasers in the global context. If I started counting them, because I love jazz, I'd count them at least 50, 60, and I'd let so many go. I won't. I had already asked Cerar's government what we would do with this soft power of Slovenian culture, and soft power, Nye, was the answer of a bush. That's what I'd like to talk to you about. If the epidemic has taught us anything, it has taught us how important some of the public infrastructures we have are. Of course health care, of course education, of course culture. Even if you consider Janševa, “let go of your peace and sit on the couch” when everything stopped, we had more time to consume culture if I put it that way. With all this story going on here, I've been thinking, and I've been thinking, you know, it seemed to me that it was very important – but we had another minister last week or ever – that, as the Belokrans say to us, children in kindergarten and then in at least all three of the triads of primary school saw and experienced how some culture of production, as institutional in the largest of our Maribor institutions as on the alter stage, was produced on the non-institutional stage. To actually see how a huge machine some mostly underpaid people are there. I was lucky to have played German in the last Slovenian partisan movie Time without Stories. But, yes, under this minister and under this government, for the vast majority of culturers and culturers, artists and artists, there really is a time without fairy tales. And now, in this epidemic state of saying, “Oh, because they basically got” and “we shook someone’s hand and he complained he got his status back” – my personal opinion is that we are the last politicians in this state to further ruin people’s lives. If I touched the film page, the cultural streets, I would say, yes, well, look, Mr Minister, we will pay you for this year on December 31st. Well, you have the right to a pension, at least 40%, that would not be such a crisis for you – which you have earned, by the way, that there will be no mistake – as for many cultures and cultures. That's basically what we're talking about. We have a government where not so small a part of ministers, including you, in particular almost everyone in the SDS quota, is bred with people operating in a certain area. This way you can't run the country in the time of the fattest cows, let alone during the epidemic. And now we're going for a square circle here. These are some problems we're trying to address, but, of course, for dialogue, you need some kind of wormhole through which communication is possible. If the minister has already indicated to me in advance that I am a descendant of the slaughterhouses – but I don't know if I am exactly, okay, maybe I am the descendant of the Japodov, probably some Japod there in the White Landscape or at the Shrine of Someone I've put so many centuries ago, come on, I'll take note of that too, but – I don't know if it's a good starting position. That I won't be too long, because my colleagues will have a more substantive debate today, I can't deal with everything, I'm not that cultural, and I don't have that much capacity. It seems to me that we should start talking about demytology of this if you want to, a prešernovo look at Slovenian culture – but we do know that those figs do not come from the fact that he split the figs, that the musculature did not work very well – and say, wait, regardless of who will be in the government, we must work hard, because we are still among the richest OECD countries in the world, that people are not poor. Whether we're talking about culture or if you want to, I don't know, Tonin's department of professional firefighters. If someone is a minister or a minister, yes, he is a minister or a minister of all of us. Minister Hojs is very pleased to say that he only addresses a quarter of the population if they had a "volin" system, but he would address half of them. Good morning! And, of course, you need to talk to people. You know, you've got a certain kind of liver. You don't really smell it, anyway, but it's a description of the works and the tasks. How did you fight, as we say in the White Land, in this government? Because you bought this story of one John John Janša — well, partly probably in the starter — which is gnawed with the whole world. He's probably arguing with himself in his dreams. But this way we can't go state. I hope that this present discomfort in culture, which is not just Freudian, which is primitive, arrogant, will be over as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on the interpretation of the Minister of Culture is much more than an assessment of his work. A look through the prism of managing the cultural base is an opportunity for me here and today to put the balance of my client's one-year participation and my personal participation in this coalition on the map. Why is this important at the time of the Minister for Culture's interpretation? Because the role of the Ministry of Culture was crucial precisely in the controversial movements of this government, which were indisputable in solving problems – and these were enormous and successfully resolved to avoid confusion – in the face of conflict and to create some insurmountable situations, particularly in the cultural field. With this, the SMC's insistence or members of SMC's party in this coalition has always been put to serious question, and as a result of this chaos in the Ministry of Culture, we have come to the point where it is necessary to clarify what the Minister has not done, but should and should not do everything that the Minister has done. The view of twitter published by the Ministry of Culture reveals ideologically unilateral, almost Huska's position on the Minister's photograph, at least that's how I experience them. For example, I quote: “The deep state draws threads so that nothing changes in the direction of greater democracy and prosperity for all.” Are these really the words of the Minister for Culture of the developed Central European State? But if they are, I wonder if they're coming after him. Each time they are published, and this seems rather Orwellian, marked, hashtag PV and the Government to make sure they both see how the Minister of Culture is on the line. Therefore, the principle is forgotten that when you are a minister, you are the minister of all, then there is no polarisation or at least it must not be explicitly declared. It seems that modern Europe does not know such a transformation of the academics into a controversial minister of culture who, in his second term, does not even try to create at least a vision of some claim to equality between different cultural groups. He even devalued what he created, I think of the Public Book Agency and the support of NGOs on Metelkova. When a humanist in the service of foreign ambitions publishes his whole essence, there will be a kind of cultural blindness. When cultural blindness acutely attacks the Minister of Culture, however, we are almost in an incurable disease. The mandate marked quite a few things, quite unpleasant. The suspension of funding for Slovenian film, some are still waiting for payment, some have received it. The Minister does not move when the net income limit for self-employed people in culture simply changes from net to gross, which means that a quarter of them lose it. The Minister believes that the Ministry of Culture must support only top-notch artists who must be able to squander their income to 20,000 euros gross a year, and that with this money they will survive in all their excellence, and, of course, in creating new top-notch ranges – how? The Minister believes that the artist is the only one who survives on the market with his art. The Minister, as no one dedicated to him, denies cultural institutions that are not his age. This does not refer to the reasons we are trying to give to the coalition partners or to try to explain why another decision is worth reconsidering. Last but not least, when churches open, theatres with completely identical or smaller auditoriums remain closed. Locked up all the time. Most people know that there is no secret that I had serious concerns when we decided as a party to join this coalition, and we all knew what we were going into. In extreme optimism, we wanted to believe that because of us and taking into account our differences, policy management will be changed. For me, solidarity among colleagues in the parliamentary group and solidarity with those who were led by the belief that SMC would be a kind of protector and the only protector in this coalition, in fact. A protector that the government will not repeat or put its ideological agenda at the forefront and that it will not endanger the fundamental pillars of the state and democracy. That was our deal. And it is true that we have written that we are not going to the field of ideological differences and that interpellations of ministers will not be supported. It was a universal commitment, and I wasn't the first one to break it. So we made a mistake. Maybe we overestimated ourselves, I guess. Under various influences and pressures, many have also changed after one year of the government’s typical operation. In response, Minister Simoniti rejected all the allegations, the responsibility for the attacks on freedom and the independence of the press if I just focused on it, that he allowed and cared for the independence of the journalistic work. As he did so, attempts to destroy the STA, which the Minister actually supports, are most eloquent. I think hiding with your hands is over because there's nothing left to hide. Due in particular to the determination of our parliamentary group that the Slovenian Press Agency should not become victims of the revenge government mogul or hostage of one personal conflict of two persons, SMC President Zdravko Restovalšek also made a public promise one month ago that he would personally resolve the problem of financing the STA and could not. And he probably won't, even though it was his party's parliamentary group that proposed the law that was passed in the National Assembly. Nevertheless, the government has consistently ignored this law in the face of the powerlessness of its Vice-President. So why do I no longer believe that this problem will be solved? Because I find that our coalition partners don't take us seriously, let alone see us as equal partners. During Monday's smug comparison of our percentages of support, it was forgotten that without us one percent of us, the government's gear would still be pulled out of the opposition without the possibility of ruling, without ministers, without personnel. We really wanted to be in the SMC, or we're part of the coalition, but we don't want to be just her decoration, or even less of a worthless sub-cracy. It is understandable that political pressures are part of everyday politics, but in mature societies these pressures stop before they are passed on to the arts and the media. Disagreements within the coalition have started with the media and will end in the media for me. It began with public attacks on the media and an infamous article by the Prime Minister of the Government on the conflict. The cultural minister, who covers the media in his department, didn't even think of stepping into their defenses. While hasty with the preparation of a package of media laws, with which he wanted to regulate the media field in a way that would further please the vision of government machinery, how the media should function, in particular so that they should be uncritical to the government and in the service of a client policy, as if they were all party trumpets. This plan did not come out mainly because we were united in the SMC at the time regarding the inadmissibility of such receptions, and we also made that clear and loud. Today, however, we are not as clearly united as we used to be, because some of my colleagues and colleagues do not find S.A.'s strangulation controversial, even though the government knowingly violates the law and does not respect the decision of the National Assembly. I am therefore speaking for colleagues and supporters who have had a decisive impact on my entry into this coalition and who are still with me. Some have not changed yet despite the increasingly loud chattering of the gradually heated frog soup. Tomorrow my vote will express my opinion on the work of Minister Simoniti as Head of the Cultural Department and as Minister in fomenting the cultural and social conflict. I will vote on behalf of all those who justifiably blame today's interpolate for the country's cultural heart attack. For all SMC members who wrote and warned us about promises, at the time of entering this coalition, Dr. Bogomir Kovac wrote down, stating: “Art is the universal rumor of generations, culture is the bonded tissue of history, and they are both a way of linking our past and future.” End of story. Therefore, I believe that, unlike all other less hard-core cultural sources, a minister should not happen, which is connected and empathetic in spite of all the qualities he has, foreign. If I hadn't chosen so strongly just one side and only one side, and if this arrogance hadn't been so powerfully sprayed, I wouldn't have troubled it all. I therefore support the interpretation on behalf of everyone who wants the endless and timeless universe of culture not to be polluted by passersby, short-term phenomena from all winds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon, prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'll start like this. I don't have you as a non-intelligent man, I don't have you as a man who doesn't know what culture is, despite his political performances that really aren't your honor or pride. These developments, including the one you are portraying today, are far from being any example of the omika, the image, or the culture you want to be, just the opposite. In fact, I am even more reminded of Director Nova24 Boris Tomažič's sneezing of moments. I'm sorry to have to give this judgment, but that's right. I'm going to support the interpolation, and I'm not going to support it because I don't think you're capable of doing this job, and I'm going to support it because I'm sure you're doing the damage on purpose. I'll tell you a few cases. Let's say the constant point of attack by your party, SDS, is artist Maja Smrekar. We have also heard statements today in the sense that its performance of breast-feeding dogs for the "Kunst" entartes, as they called their time for degenerate art. And you know, you said yourself in September in an interview with Siol.net that this is an artistic work, an artistic performance that has its own validity and has won European awards. So you said: “It’s only about breast-feeding a dog, but you have to look at the whole opus of this artist. People go too far to the first ball. They see this and are appalled, but the lady has received an important award abroad, which means that she has been recognized by the wider European community. Lactating a dog can illustrate a kind of rebellion and a loss of faith in man to set the world straight. This is an old mythical story." And so on. Those are your words. But we won't hear anything about it today. Your client will put this artist on a pranger, you will keep your mouth shut. And your silence is not the worst thing you can afford. Shut up here, keep your mouth shut in the media, as many colleagues have already told you. We have the Slovenian Press Agency, which the Government is tearing down, and you, as a minister, who is also responsible for the media, are finally at your Ministry of Media Directorate, you should say something about it, and you don't say. But we do have an attempt to establish a so-called National Press Agency, where yesterday her editor said it was a fascist medium. And that somehow still lies under your client's wing, and I haven't heard you say anything. But it's not the worst either. I'll tell you where you're really doing the damage. And since I'm going to be limited in time, I'm going to give three cases: staffing, film and Metelkova 6. I'll just describe what you're doing there. It's a frame-up. In your statement today, you said that there was no political recruitment, that all the people who had been replaced were replaced because their mandates had expired, and that the only one who had been replaced during the term of office was Director JAK. The facts are as follows. Director JAC has been traded for alleged misconduct in the performance of your duties. You forgot to say that in the summer you sent a budget inspector to the Public Book Agency, who found that there were no violations in any of the points you were reading to her, and yet she was replaced. And this lady, who was a successful cultural manager, who is ultimately the most responsible for Slovenia being exposed to the Frankfurt Book Fair, is the largest European book festival. What did she get for the prize? You fired her, and now I'm reading that your ministry has filed a criminal complaint against her. This comes from capable people who have done some self-sacrificing work with you for a reward. It's a similar case. Previously, you mentioned Europa Cantat as a project that is a reference project for your ministry. It should be said that Marko Repnik, former director of the JSKD, has done the most for this project. What happened to him? You didn't extend his term. Now who are you setting up there? We read that Damian Damyanovich. This is that notorious former director of the Slovenian Philharmonic who once sued a journalist because he said that his strategy of action, Damjanović, who wrote it, showed quarterliness and lost the lawsuit. Judge Radonjić, who, to put it mildly, cannot be exactly left-handed, said that if this document, the strategy of action that Damjanović wrote, you read, you can really conclude that it is quarter-letter. That is what Judge Radonjić said when the judgment against him fell. Once again, we have a case of beating up people who have done something for an institution that has shown some ability and setting up some quarter-literary party February. It's a pattern of action, it's not just the story of JSKD and JAC. This is the story in the Museum of Architecture and Design where you exchanged Matevž Čelik, the successful director who practically set up this institution. You changed him — how? On the first call, the two councils of the institution said that he was the most suitable candidate, even the commission you had appointed as minister said he was the most suitable candidate. And you, as minister, turned him down, repeated the invitation, and now you've put someone there who's obviously more into your political party. And this is the story of the National Museum, Modern Gallery, Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, Cinematheque, MAO, Museum of Recent History, JAK and so on. In short, you are doing deliberate damage when you kick the capable cultural managers out of the institutions and you set up some party loyalists there who will probably talk to them about, say, the work of Maja Smrekar, which I mentioned earlier, saying similar things to what we hear from the SDS Members' mouth, and not informed things, as you yourself said in that interview I mentioned earlier. You deliberately degrade Slovenian cultural institutions and destroy them. Another time. This is the case of Metelkova 6. We know why SDS Metelkova 6 doesn't like it. He doesn't like it because the Peace Institute works there. Pika. It's where the Peace Institute works, this institution, this house needs to be demolished. And now you're making excuses for putting a natural museum there. The Natural History Museum is a project that is more than 20 years old and since 2004 there has been a plan by architect Vodopivec to be this natural science museum in the center of science that is supposed to be set up at the zoo. It doesn't say "Melkova 6. " The fact that you are dragging him to Metelkovo 6 is only to have an excuse to throw out the institutions that I currently give effect: City of Women, EN-KNAP, Dance Theatre Ljubljana, Forum, Mask, Style, Peace Institute, Škuc, Vertigo, NSK, Screen, Cinema Island, Exodus, Institute for Contemporary Art SCCA and so on. They're all gonna fly you out of this room because of some of your client's flies. And if I mention now, what damage you're doing. Vertigo, a production house that operates on Metelkova 6, has produced 70 films for the budget of 12 million euros in recent years. Among them: A state of shock, a feature-length film, got Vesno for special achievements at the FSF; we go by our own, full-time feature film that attracted 130 thousand viewers to cinemas, over a million for TV screens; Nightlife, he got a crystal globe for the best directing in Karlovy Vary; I will no longer be a loser, two in the spring, for the best film FSF and script; I am Frank, the gold arena for the best directing, and so on. For the prize, this production house under your ministry will lose its space. To whom, Mr. Secretary? Who's in charge? The other organizations I've listed have no minor achievements to make, but I don't have time to describe them all, and you're throwing them on the road from some of the political whims of some people who are here telling us the little ones about created art. We're just waiting, leaving them another term in power, and if we hope, we'll get the burning of some artistic works, as we've seen before, or exhibitions of degenerate art. Not to think that this was the last time in the 1930s, even the second half of the 20th century, if you want, was full of such regimes. You, Mr Minister, have decided to support this policy. If I go to the movie at the end. All the countries around us were saving the film during the crisis. In Austria, because of the coronary crisis, when film production started to stop, a fund worth EUR 25 million was set up to solve Austrian cinema. I will only describe this case, and Croatia, the Czech Republic, Poland and the other countries have done very similarly. In Austria, the 25 million-dollar fund to get rid of the movie. With us? The film is frozen by the end of April 2020 and the filmmakers by 31. 12. After countless protests, they do not receive the euro of payments. He didn't even pay the euro. Do you know what happened? Of the 15 films that received approved funding in 2019 and should be completed last year, five will be completed this year due to the loss of funds and sabotage by your ministry. Maybe a complete five. Some people are running out of European funds. Last time, I told you about the Kappa movie on Monday. This is a full-time Christmas movie, I think it's even the first Christmas film of this kind they're going to make in Slovenia, got half a million euros in Europe, because of your ministry, the shooting didn't start in November 2020 as it should be, and because of your ministry, this film almost failed. Yesterday, and just yesterday, he received the greatest recognition you can get in Europe, by the Council of Europe, Eurimages, where he was supported, so that this film will be completed while your ministry sabotages it. Again, to whom in honor? If we look at neighbouring Hungary, we can get an answer. There Orban suffered literally in 20122-013 film producers and sent them abroad so that he could bring some of his generation to their place. So that I don't stop here, he's in a fight with her now, because he thinks he's too liberal, and yesterday we read that he's even been working on remodeling Hungarian popular music. The Minister says that culture and art are not an island, but we will become the island and children you create, that will be an island where the institutions that have now had an international application, you are there capable of leadership successfully mentioning, will become what you say: peripheral institutions that will not go beyond the borders of Slovenia. I, Mr Minister, can never sign under such a political mandate, I can only sign under the basic conclusion of this interpolation, which is that you are the most harmful cultural minister in the history of this country. Not because you wouldn't be able to, but because you know what the hell you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	I'm not gonna answer anything. I will only mention some things that Mr Smrekar thinks are so problematic that he would not mention them in front of his client colleagues or customers – the problem of Mrs Maja Smrekar, who is just an artist, who is much talked about. I spoke to Mrs. Maja Smrekar not only in Siol or where you said it, but also on Novi24TV. It's been a long time. I must say, of course, there are completely different views, but never anyone on either side of the party, even if such or other comments fall, but there is little to talk about informally or something like that, no one has ever interfered with whether to reward or not, or eliminate or do anything bad to the lady. Let's say we're serious, not literally taking it, I hope we're competent interlocutors, and we understand what I'm trying to say. In short, so I have my opinion about Maja Smrekar, which I clearly said, I appreciate; some others do not appreciate her, some do not deal with art or culture at all, and they do not speak and they are different opinions and they are right. Thank God, it doesn't bother me at all, but no one has ever said anything like that that would mean that the Ministry of Culture should reject something or do something bad for the lady or this type of contemporary art to be affected in any way. So this is very inappropriate and unfair; there are different views. I don't know what your client is like, but there's a lot of talk and talk to us, and so on, when a program and strategy is done and when something is going on, nobody has ever fallen on either side to tell me anything about it. Never. That's it. Regarding the recruitment of JAC and these things, I must say that I find it very inappropriate, however, to say that they were all such successful managers and so on. Regarding JAK; it was done for Frankfurt before Mrs – I don't even know when this lady appeared in public, which we solved or resolved to JAK. About the fact that it is necessary to go to Frankfurt, it was already in my mandate and, later, one Mrs Podlogar, who is now in Vienna, was particularly busy, and she had a great desire to drive it. So this idea was long lively and was also based, as I would say, on some general level as on some operational one that has begun to take place, and the lady you're talking about, that the injustice happened to her, I actually met her, the hospitality was great, you know, the results were very weak and today some things fall out of closets like some skeletons. But good. With regard to the other directors I have replaced, that is to say, I have not replaced those who have expired, in fact, the mandates have expired, and all the quality people are, in order to express themselves in a modest manner, properly educated, including with some work lag with which Celik cannot be compared at all by profession. Mr. Steele was probably an operative who dealt with some of the funds that came from Europe — any honor, say, right. At state expense, all these directors travel around a lot and think they are known and so on. The Lord even boasted that he would get a job anywhere and that he would be waiting everywhere. Well, we know how it is. In short, all the newly appointed directors are extremely quality, highly educated, with great work opus, with knowledge of the things being done, and an apriorous lack of confidence in such people as, if, before, they were insanely successful managers, it is quite insulting, especially from people who know nothing about these things, let's say from your side. I find it very, very inappropriate to judge such people. Now, given what we've heard before, you know everything abroad about how these things run. You know, we're dealing with this on a big level, we're doing the same thing outside, we know how the leaders of the various institutions stand, where they are, who they are, even so it's that people come from everywhere, and there's nothing to worry about, and there's nothing to do, there's nothing to do, there's nothing to do, there's nothing to do, there's nothing to do. But, another thing; it's different with us, but these directors, who are now appointed as directors, are all extremely comparable to those who were previously so knowledgeable, behavioural, opus. What they're going to do, we're going to give them a chance, because after certain years, tens, twentys, or whatever, it's also good that someone changes if they somehow start to drip in the same place. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Secretary, as far as the attacks on the artist we're talking about. I didn't say you were attacking her. I said she was being attacked by everyone around you. Nova24TV, the media party you're part of. The party you're part of was attacking her here today, and we can't hear you coming by – Alenka Jeraj, can we? We can't hear you say anything in her defense. Secondly, I won't, because I don't want to waste time on other Members of our group, I'm going to go into another human resources issue, but that's all I'm going to say. People who have had good results and excellent references that even your commission, which you yourself have put up, has proposed as the best, have been replaced by people who do not have a reference, or who have significantly worse results than their predecessors. This is in no way a good traveller or, as I said before, the peripheralisation of Slovenian cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Marco Bandelli. Here you go, Eva.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of Parliament. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have looked at what is actually going on in the area of culture, how much financial resources have been devoted to culture in recent years, and I can see that, indeed, the 2021 budget is based on 237 million, almost 238 million, and in view of the tables I have before me, I see that this is one of the truly record budgets. I also have a copy of how many budgets the past ministers have been. I have Dejan Prešič at 162 million, Zoran Poznič at 172 million and Dr Vask Simoniti at 237 million, virtually 238 million. I think that only the operation and the fact of the financial means provided speaks out in favour of what this government has to do with the culture and has provided them with the basic means. So, the basic means, I suppose, is that there is money in culture so that culture can develop throughout the country, both in cities and in rural areas, and which the mayors also care about to a large extent. When I looked at how the mayors of Slovenia care for culture, I noticed that in their budgets of municipalities they have considerable resources specifically for cultural activities, for the preservation of cultural heritage. I will borrow the words of the esteemed Dr. Anton Šepetavac, director of the First Gymnasium in Celje in 2016, when he spoke at a cultural event in the municipality of Vojnik and said: “Culture is not a sad thing, but everything before that; it is pure joy. Nobility of spirit, goodness of heart, meaning of life. What is a man without spirit? What is a man without a heart? What is human if within him and his fellowmen he does not recognize the meaning of not being able to feel the rich joy that has been offered and given to us for centuries by culture.” He said that a good friend of his had advised him years ago not to be angry with Goethe’s example, but rather to wonder. Thus, in recent years, almost every day has been a surprise to our good politicians. She marvels at the moral breakdown, the wonders of the paying system, the wonders of the huge bank hole and the untouchable tycoon, the wonders of the partial courts, the wonders of the neotaches in road traffic, the wonders of Furs, who are harassing everyone on average with tax registers, including the defenses that bring five kilos of sour cabbage to the market for loving survival. I add that today, after six years, I am surprised by Dr. Whisperer's words. Sad to say, I am surprised that, as a society, we have not advanced anything culturally or morally. I am surprised at today's interpretation and the words of fellow Members who are signed under today's interpolation. I'm surprised by the words spoken, which, like Minister Simoniti, I don't understand exactly what they would mean in life. As a culture lover, I like to visit performances in my home cultural home, art exhibitions, listen to Slovenian poetry recited and admire the extraordinary talents that attract beautiful sounds and tunes from various instruments. I like to visit cultural monuments in Slovenia, although due to the epidemic more online than ever; Jančar, Lainšček, as well as Frančišška Čuk and Vanda Šega are certainly the authors I like to intervene on. I would like to talk about cultural policy and the recognition of the extraordinary creations of our architect Plečnik. It has world fame, which we still do not allocate to it in Slovenia. Whether the Slovenians do not wish or do not know to place him in a prominent place in our cultural heritage and us the Czech Republic, the Czech State, is far ahead in this. I wonder if he's been erased or silenced. His works rose and settled from the leveled floors and leaves of the former system. His creation in the Czech Republic, this is the restoration of the Prague castle after World War II, is listed on the list of world cultural heritage on Unesc's list. In Slovenia, too, we have quite a number of world heritage listed in Unesc's list. These are the Škocjan Caves, the mercury mine in Idrija, the colossal settlements in the Ljubljana Bar, the ancient beech forests in the forest of Krokar and the reserve of Sneznik-Ždrocle. However, there are still some cultural objects or things that would like to be on this list. It is definitely a hospital Franja, Crassus, Plečnik's legacy in Ljubljana. And as I have already mentioned, Plečnik's legacy in Ljubljana is still not as big for Slovenians as it is possible to place it on this list. Today I can read on the web portal: Strangers set fire to the Velenje Cultural House. In the fire, a facade was damaged at home, stone pressure, a staircase with a fence and a roof over the side entrance. By means of malicious acts, they caused damage to an important cultural monument, reported from the Velenj municipality. It's definitely not a culture. As is not the culture of burning the string cross, destroying the facades on the churches and destroying the fresco, and might even mention it. In view of today's debates and the words of the opposition, one wonders whether we share culture. Culture is a living thing, but not in arsons and insults. Today, when I listen to what was wrong, I am kind of grateful for the data that my colleagues collected from me, and I can also look at the amount of financial resources for self-employed people in culture; the evidence of how self-employed people are being decommissioned in culture. In 2015, these funds amounted to 6 million 600, in 2016 7 million 450, in 2017 7 million 876, in 2018 8 million 705 EUR, in 2019 9 million 380. And in 2020, the level of financial resources for self-employed people in culture – 10 million 188. The number of applications rejected for the right to pay contributions, you have seen this very strongly. I am also grateful to my fellow workers for this information. In 2011, applications for the right to pay contributions were rejected 52, 2012 – 19, 2013 – 40, 2014 – 29 and then this number persists somewhere until 2019 when applications for the right to payment were rejected 34, 2020 – 13. I believe that this is also the case, which governments are impeding and rejecting for the right to pay their contributions. In 2020, the minister I have here on my right today was 13 the previous year 34. I can go on. Number deleted from the register and termination of the right. In 2015, it was deleted from Table 101 and the termination of the right 4. In 2016, the number deleted from Table 131 was the termination of the right 53. And then it's roughly the same thing until 2019, when the Charles government was. The number deleted from the alert was 170 and the termination of the right was 105. Now I'm also here wondering who these people were, who they were, who they took from them, or who they stopped their rights to. Where are they? They certainly did not turn to me, nor to our messenger. It is said that they were either silenced or erased. In addition to 2020, 98 have been deleted from the alert and 76 have been deprived of the right. And this is also a fairly eloquent graph that testifies to how the minister, this government, restricts culture. I don't think I know if we've all gotten the same information. Let us see how many self-employed people are enrolled in the culture. In 2000, there were a thousand 938s, and then it was kind of gradual after a few 10, 50 grew by 2005, when there were 2 thousand 341s. And then again more or less the case grew and in 2012 there were 2 thousand 388. The matter and the number of cultural workers were increasing, which I think is right, that people understood what Slovenian culture meant, but in 2015 almost halved the number and the number of employees in culture fell to a thousand 803. This appropriation is And once again, the issue is growing and for 2019 there were 2 000 789 and in 2020, when we say that the government does not have a hearing for self-employed people in culture, that it has erased them, that it does not grant status, they have been recorded as 3 000 46. The numbers speak for themselves, but of course they can explain themselves in their own way, but the figures say that the funds provided in the budget are also reflected in the number of self-employed people registered in the register of self-employed in culture, which is correct. Once again, I support Slovenian culture and will continue to do my best in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Marko Bandelli, Ms Eva Irgl is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	Thank you, Chairman for your word. What we've heard before about numbers, you always throw out these numbers, how much more money we got for culture. It's a shame, you know. More money and more cuts into culture all the unnecessary things. That's the basis of everything. We have to have committees to interpret, just to prove and see what's going on here, an affair. But then we brag, give more money. For what? To raise stupidity and that's it, and that's why we're here today. Dear Minister Simoniti! I think it was just a matter of time before we met at this interview, because it was from the beginning, after one month, you've come into office. In my opinion, the cultural policy of the current government has no vision at all if I were to say, with you at the head of no vision, no particular programme, no direction to point to this. Or, yes, I do: destroy the concept of culture. This is the only thing you know in this leadership, in this situation. It is very clear this year that you have completely lost the credibility and trust of the professional and also interested public. This is a picture that showed up. I'm not going to go long and wide because I don't care because I'm going to say two points, one point, three points, which I'm interested in proving to you why you didn't even draw me to your work with one thing. As for the beginning, you know how much we fought and what procedures and how many meetings we had and everything for the film production. Literally impoverishment of film production. I made proposals to say how to do, how to change things and you had to come up with a short time without knowing which package antikoronic to implement the contracts, those that were signed, regularly signed, the order had to get; I mean, the money didn't go out of your cash register. [[…]] That was a shame back then. I'm not talking about the attack, then I'm sure what's best for me is RTV and STA. RTV attacks on the media, freedom of media reporting. You've proven here that you're not interested in anything or the other way around. President, if the Minister can listen to me, don't talk to anyone else in there like we're not here. I know he has this attitude, this arrogant attitude towards everyone, but if we are Members here, who are telling him something, we want him to listen and understand the reasons why we are here. Then, if he agrees, he doesn't agree, I don't care, but let him listen. Don't talk to my colleague Irgle! You can talk in half an hour, whether you're going out or what needs to be done. That's why we're here. If you don't, it's out of the question that we're here. It doesn't matter that we're here. I think so! At least have that little respect in interpolation with us, a little bit. Do you know how much? So little, so little. I'm asking you, just so little. To understand where you're going, why you're here on this trial, if that's what we call it. I told you about RTV. You haven't done anything, in fact, you've all encouraged us to maintain some dignity to individuals and to RTV itself. Destroy it, subjugate it in any way, that was the goal from the beginning. I mean, it's not your goal, you know, it's been the goal for so many years of government and SDS thinking in that sense. What I heard earlier from my colleague Jelinčič – I mean, I had to go out. The best TV Nova24TV, which is just waiting to spit on everyone, to spit completely at everyone who's here in the opposition, because you're in the coalition putting you all in heaven. How good you are, how hard you are, how much you work! Here's the basis of this television, it's certainly the best television that has to be. And that's the kind of television you should be paying me if that stupid media law of yours were to be passed because you wanted the money from that address. It was a shame. Not to mention the STA, the way it was destroyed. Even now, it's embarrassing! It is a shame for Slovenia to have a debate on the STA in the European Parliament! And we accepted here, and you promised to solve the matter. And what did you do? You gave them two months' wages and then blocked it again. I mean, what kind of minister are you? Do you have anything from the minister? That I won't say anything else if you do. 'Cause it doesn't look like it. Are you not alone, or do you need to listen to everyone else? Excuse me, Minister. And that's sad. It's sad, you know what I mean? That's sad. And then what did you do? Instead of going against it, you've set up some stateless National Press Agency that itself declares fascist. Where did we see this? Yeah, look! I saw it myself, listening to the lead author who himself said we were a fascist agency. Look, it's not funny, you know. It's not funny. In a different time, people would go into trouble here, you know. A naked island would be a little bit. So little to remind you how honest history has been. But no matter how you can't say a word, I haven't seen one of the ministers or one of the ministers to distance myself from it. And you, who are the cultural minister of culture – non-culture as we would like to say, I am not interested, but the cultural minister is still – you have not made a single statement. You know, you need to understand where you're hoping. That's a terrible thing to say. I'm going to finish now, but you know, let me tell you something else about Lipica. I've been waiting. At the hearing, you promised to go to Lipica to see what was going on there. The Ministry of Economy works, large millions for some hotels, and our heritage goes into retail, according to your household. Okay? You haven't been there once in a year, not once. Well, you'll know what it is. And you don't even know what's going on there. Because if we knew what was going on, we could do something about it. Literally, Minister Simoniti, the culture you are implementing is a picture of the uncultured government he has. It's nothing special. We need to understand that. Incompetent and harmful, if you say so. And one more thing to conclude. Even though I don't agree with your policy, with your words, I'm just a man with a heart and a heart, so congratulations on your 70 years. I think that's the right thing to do. It's your birthday. But look, make us one bar, make us a bar of your own and make us citizens, because your attitude to culture is not even photocopies, if you say so, a concept of what culture means. And once again, stand down alone, make you a bar and us who are here in the country alone. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Just for a little while. The Lord always cheers me up. With that national, I don't know what kind of organization, whether in print or not, I don't have anything, and I don't know why I would define every single thing if it shows up in public, because it's unrelated, and I have nothing to do with it. But if that means anything to you, I don't know what to say, you say the words, and I'll repeat them. I had nothing to do with it, and I don't even know who it is, I don't know anybody, and I don't care. As for Lipica, listen to this, not under the authority of the Ministry of Culture, but of another ministry, and they must arrange it. It used to be at the Ministry of Culture. But what saddens me is that what you say is that once again there are big problems, they always have been. There were partial interests and state interference and there was one big problem at the time, I must say. I'm not saying I saved him or anything, but we tried. If this is still the case, or if it's worse, it makes me very sad. I understand that you are angry and have the right to be angry, and I apologize. But you remind me of a literary person named Jerneek from Goleg who said I'd ask him with cake when he upsets me. That's the way to tell him what upsets him the most. And look, you said that, I'm not angry, but I agree with you that you're angry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	For a short while, right away, because I can see that the minister, I'm sorry that you're even a minister, if you don't know that Lipica really belongs in three departments. Three: culture, agriculture and economy. There is a world, and under the Lipica Act, you must have one member in the world, because you are the head of the natural heritage and what it is. Now you've told me, I'm sorry you have no idea what you're doing in that place. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Eva Irgle has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! First of all, let me say that we are particularly Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party from a very difficult task of defending you, dear Minister, when we see you defend yourselves best, so as to congratulate you in this work. However, I will start by saying that your written response to the impressions in the interpretation of all the interpretations we have had so far in these ten days is highly justified, and also professionally reasoned. All those who have read the answer to this interpretation and are sitting here today, you can admit it. For others, I'd say you probably haven't read that answer. It is therefore a truly precise, precise response with all relevant information, which is also necessary for today's debate. In view of what I have listened to so far, especially by the opposition Members – you did not surprise me. A lot started at the personal level and, of course, the Minister of Culture had to respond to these findings. This is perfectly normal, but I would expect more substantive debates, professionally but not ideologically, which was, after all, also to be expected from your side in view of the work that has been done so far. It was mentioned several times earlier that the respected minister Simoniti celebrated his 70th birthday a few days ago. I have already congratulated him, but I can do it again, and this is not the purpose of this debate now, but, above all, that we also see the breadth of Minister Simoniti and what kind of man you are interpreting here today. At the 70th Jubilee, which he celebrated, Dr. Milček Komelj, is an art historian, a member of the SAZU, who says, among other things, that he hides the most beauty in art, said about Minister Vask Simoniti. I quote: “He is a distinctly upright man, of great cultural breadth and of free spirit, but by character he is determined, even though he is cut, temperamental, and ever-increasing man.” And I must say that, given that I have known Mr Simoniti for a very long time, we have been working together in the first Janša government, when the minister, from 2004 to 2008, has been able to say that I fully sign under the floor, and I might add that Mr Minister is also extremely witty, perhaps we will be able to see some things through the discussion below. But let me just go to the content. The first time you took over the management of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. in the period 2004-2008, you have prepared the current Law on RTV Slovenia. You know, it happened twice at the referendum, but it was confirmed both times, so people agreed to the law that was proposed and still in force today. Among other things, you have been a writer of the Media Act, and just as it was then coming in from all directions towards you, today it is coming in on you in the same direction. You're reading to the minister that he's putting pressure on the media, he's putting pressure on the press, that the media is not free here, which, look, is ridiculous. The truth is, of course, quite the opposite, and everyone who is accompanying this political space and the social space in which we are located knows this. Of course, it is very easy to export such structures abroad and then return them to the internal political floor only to deal with the Minister of Culture, who, by the way, is doing his job well, and to deal with the entire government of Janez Janša. That's the only goal you actually have. It's not really about improving anything in this country. You're not doing well. Because if you could, then you wouldn't be in such a difficult situation as we've been doing interpolation on a running tape, but you'd be helping. We would have helped in such a difficult situation. Look, if anyone's had any media since 1945, kind of under it, it's you, so it's in the left option. But we don't want to subjugate anything, but we just want to normalize things. What does a quality, plural media space really mean? What does quality media space mean? A quality media space means that it is not cheerleading for one political option, that it is not agitpropov. That's a fact. Look, Mr. German, I listened to you when you spoke, and let me. Well, we are lucky that the media space is expanding and that it is no longer uniform. But it is important that because this space is expanding, it is, of course, necessary with all the pressure to attack those who are actually working to make the media more plural. And at the same time, thank God, people have the opportunity to find information about some content, about some things on the Internet, so that they can design or create an opinion on some content, but not to sell it to them under the cover of objective journalism or objective objectivity, and they form their opinion. The fact is, as with us, polls, for example, do not measure public opinion, but create it. Journalists, too, do the same, especially those who are still considered to be social political workers in some segments. So they do not provide any objective information, but they create it according to political expectations precisely certain political options. And that's the problem, and here I see the key problem, and this isn't about any media injustice. It's not about media non-freedom, and it's only right to say it, and it's not about any pressure. And there will be no mistake, I appreciate the press work, I appreciate the press work very much, but the press work is such that it must be objective to expect journalists to comply consistently with professional and ethical criteria. Such journalists are certainly — and I know a lot of them, which are very good, very quality. I've been working on RTV myself, I know how it works, but it's important to say that there are some things that aren't right, and it's right that we're talking about them. Look, finally, the fact that the public service is objective means that when we talk about public broadcasting, it is absolutely necessary. Last but not least, RTV Slovenia is paid by all electricity customers, and therefore we rightly expect it to offer us the widest range of different content in some way, it is also written in the law itself, and then it does its work impartially and independently in accordance with professional criteria and ethical code. That's all we want, and that's all Minister Vasko Simoniti wants. What you're saying about some of the pressures and non-freedom of the media is the truth, as I've already said, quite the opposite. With regard to the achievements of Minister Simoniti. Investments in the cultural field have already been made in the past. He was behind the renovations of the Modern Gallery, Ljubljana Opera, Slovenian Cinematheque, Maribor Theatre, also the Franja Hospital, for which he was certainly a grateful SD Member Mr. Sam Bevk. I am sure of that, because this is where the protection of cultural heritage was also concerned. But that I will not propose, in this mandate this Minister has provided in the budget the most resources for culture in the history of Slovenia and some other projects. In the parliamentary position, the colleague listed the details of where the funds go and for what purposes they are intended in the culture. By first reading the facts and then talking about them. In the end, I'll just say this. To a minister who grew up with art living with art, which is a free spirit, which is a secularist, you always refer to this minister in the media, in the opposition, to an uncultured minister. And it is those Members of Parliament who behave the most uncultured and often perform truly inappropriate excesses in this national assembly, not least above me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Prebil has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to point out, in the context of this interpretation, that, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure and its second paragraph, a colleague and a previous colleague, the Minister and all those who will continue to discuss the subject on the agenda. We are today at the interpolation, not at the praise of this minister and his personal characteristics, how witty and insidious he is and anything else. I expect the debaters to identify themselves to the things that are listed in the interpretation or in the response, but not to devote all or at least most of that time to something that is not the subject of today's interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. If I use your words, Mr. Member, if someone thinks that with some praise to the Minister, they're going to keep the readings from interpolation, that's their decision. As long as the debate is within the framework as it has been so far, when it touches the Ministry and the Minister, I will not interfere with such a debate, but when it comes down to the subject, I will point out this to the speaker. If I see it correctly, she wanted to speak to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Thank you very much. He said only the shoes belong to the hooves. Now, Mrs Irgle's last presentation is once again a famous SDS, oh, we're poor gods, you're attacking us, and we're normalizing and so on. You're all awfully distant from these aggressive attacks of yours, either by individuals or by the media. I've already spoken to the very prominent current SDS ministers, who said it was a client of one man. What Nova24TV is doing — attacking! You know, I'm sorry, but I'm not involved. And just like that, the minister was now squirming when we mentioned that it was a fascist press agency. Mrs Irgle will of course say this is a matter of wit, for our minister is so witty; save us his wit, please, and let him be respectful in this national assembly. In short, I'm sorry, but all the time, he's been pulling out of all your rematchism. We get the feeling all the time that because you're SDS, you weren't there and there. I don't know, buddy, why you're not on RTV anymore and how many times you've worked acceptable to AGRFT. I'm sorry, I hear so many times in this House and go back to the theater. In 1987, I graduated from AGRFT with an award, I worked in one of the theatres where I worked for 15 years and then as a self-employed woman. I have somewhere to go. There was a debate earlier; where, without politics, we would not live. Some of us have had careers, but some of us have to pay a very high price to some customers who are actually immoral and harmful to Slovenia. Of course, it's a difficult task to defend the minister. I will say that the SDS as the only party has now sunk all coalition partners, constantly driving in the opposite direction and is convinced that everyone else on the highway is driving the wrong way. My colleague Iva Dimic really doesn't know anything about work in the field of culture. And I'm not going to describe what I've been doing in almost 30 years, but please don't manipulate me like that. It explained that from 2015 to 2020, contributions to self-employed people increased by a million euros each year. Yes! There are more and more because it is impossible to employ in theatres and other public institutions because of Janša’s government and his laws. These are the most sophisticated professions that have no possibility of vacation, no hospital, no credit. This relationship with self-employed people is unacceptable. On the other hand, if we look at Erar, who among civil society is the largest recipient, we come to St. Stanislav's Office with 69 million 382, Anton Martin Slomšek 39 million, Ozara 27 million, St. Francis Salek's Institute 24 million, St. Cyril's Office and Method Beltinci 12, I don't know, the House of St. Joseph 11, and in 2020 10 million for all self-employed who create, respect and respect. Sorry, if Peterle promised us Switzerland, only those who declare themselves to be members of a religious community pay religious tax in Switzerland. This privilege, at the expense of culture and cultural creators, is unacceptable. If I were to go back to Metelkov's 6. The NGO Centre emphasises that this is the address where producers who were previously created by a colleague of the Moon were named. Then the institution that produced the performance, awarded the big Borštnik Prize, an institute that took over and saved the status of more than 10,000 deleted from the permanent population register. That's probably why you're throwing out all of Metelkova. And the institution that supports talented young musicians today is the world-renowned music masters, such as the concert soloist of the Munich Philharmonics Martin Belic and the first violin of the Züri Chamber Orchestra Tanja Sunc. It features a company that hosts 650 events per year for children and adults and attracts more than 35,000 visitors, and creators of the international Finnish festival Kino Island, which has attracted more than 50,000 viewers, and companies that are responsible for professionalizing contemporary dance in Slovenia, where they have created internationally recognized choreographers such as Istok Kovač, Mateja Rebol. It is a place where studios have a world-renowned group of visual artists Irwin, a part of the Neue Slovenianische Kunst movement, which exhibits at all the most important world museums, including the New York Museum Moma and the London Tate Modern Gallery. This is also the address where he creates probably the most famous Slovenian band Laibach, which sold over a million albums and performed thousands of concerts around the world from North America to North Korea. In short, they create NGOs here that the country should be proud of. Škuc also published book works on dozens of awarded and nominated literary authors and authors, from Kersnikov and Veronica's award, Lucija Stupica awards, Prešeren's prize. In short, in her 25s she produced excellent domestic and international productions. How is it possible that the Ministry of Culture does not see the value of this culture, I will say, the institutions on Metelkov 6, and how is it possible that here, for this speaker and in the National Assembly we hear such bad grades against artists who have voiced about Slovenia around the world. I'm ashamed of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Duck's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Mrs Irgle said that SDS is working on normalization. Dear Eva, if what you're doing to your coalition partners, what you're doing in the field of culture, what you're doing for you at all, for this client, normalization, I'll just say, "No, thank you." For the vast majority of the Slovenian political body, this is not normalisation, nor does the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language define what you are doing under the word standardisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next word is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would also congratulate the minister, as many of you have congratulated him, but I can't because he's not in the hall anymore. He's got no patience, apparently. Personally, I have to say that I'm gonna start a little different. In my previous discussions with colleague Eva Irgle, for example, I noticed that she was talking about Mr Vask Simoniti about surpluses mainly in the area where she was reading even a thought about what someone thought about him. I can say that as a historian, the person who has, of course, left his consequences positive that we will not be misunderstood, and I must say that it is a shame because he does not continue to work if, at least in this area, he does. For if you are working in an area in which you know yourself, you are likely to produce fine results, for which he certainly has made them in his career and can only be happy. And so do we all, if we're already talking about him. However, being an expert in history still does not mean that you can be a good minister. Few ministers, of course, have the opportunity to boast that he was a minister on several occasions, especially because it makes him easier to compare what he was doing in the previous term and what he was doing today when we are discussing him. Mr Vasko Simoniti is certainly one of those who had this opportunity, and I can say that there are certain things that he did in 2004-2008, at least in the field of investment, certainly perfectly okay and not to be seen. What is happening in the area of culture in this mandate is, of course, very, very frightening. Otherwise, I'm going to mention a few areas where I'm actually appalled. Then I'll go first. It is interesting that in 2004-2008 the Office for Religious Communities was established with the aim of also having a seat and a space for religious communities. If they set up at the time, they're shutting it down now. That's interesting. This is especially interesting because one wonders why the Office for Religious Communities is actually asking. What's bothering them there, anyway? Yes, of course it bothers them. If you read certain statements by individual religious dignitaries already in 2012 – then they ran out of time, they were too short of time in power. For example, Mr Šuhec has made it very clear that we do not need an Office for Religious Communities in the Republic of Slovenia. Why don't they need them? Because, of course, the Roman Catholic Church is under-proclaimed, it has little attention and is even more important than that the rest of the religious communities and that there is too much talk in this office about equality, equality and that the funds should be roughly the same and the same; and, of course, policies that the Office for Religious Communities is intended to provide. The other thing that I find interesting is this: we all know that we have a celebration committee in the country; but very few people know that we also have a State Celebration Service within the Ministry of Culture which, by the way, has been abolished. Why is that? That's an interesting question to ask. Yes, probably because one of the important things at the Ministry of Culture is, of course, the recruitment of your people, and in this way, the easiest way to get certain people retired, move them to other jobs, move them to other ministries or get rid of them, so they're not too disturbing. The next thing I know, the minister was reactivated from retirement. Of course, as a politician when you become a minister, why not? The same applies to Members. But this government has passed a law on forced retirement, and it has put a lot of people out of retirement at the beginning of the bullying. Interesting! He comes out of retirement alone, others retire. Well, this is a sort of example of how the Minister of Culture, who specialises the word culture, does it in an uncultured way. But, you know, the Ministry of Culture over the years and years, of course, has also acquired a mandatory official work, which has some specific knowledge, some certain behavior in this area. If today the Minister himself has judged certain Members of Parliament that they have no idea and that they should not talk about certain things they do not know about, I must say that today the Minister speaks on behalf of the Ministry of Culture about things they do not know at all. But he has this eccentric right to talk about what he wants, what he wants, what he wants, and what is most important, he will determine what culture is and what is not culture. And that's how he behaves. Not to say unless he retires them and puts them in the middle of the hospital at work. That's what he was doing at the Ministry. Don't look at me like that, because I'm going to quote your name quickly, and your co-worker behind you or your secretary of state knows very well who it is or isn't just one. You know exactly who this is, don't you? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, of course you do. But you put a new headmistress in this area and so on. What's more important is, of course, that the minister who does illegal things is one thing, and another is that when he should react, you don't react and say, because I didn't do anything wrong, which is what you blame me for. But, you know, I've said it over and over again, the rule applies abroad, not only when you do something wrong, but even when you should do something, but you don't do it, it's considered that you're responsible for the consequences. I'll tell you where. The legislative area is dominated by the Ministry of Culture in the area of STA. Of course, they write the basis for legislation. I am not saying that the Ministry of Culture is the custodian of the contract, but, of course, this is the area where the Minister of Culture, given that we are talking about the media, should react and step into the defence and very clearly say where the borders are, where it is simply not possible to cross the border anymore. No! No! Of course, because in this government it is a habit to simply do what the great boss decides, and what is, of course, the goal is simply to be quiet; even at the cost of not being guilty in the end. There were quite a few debates about how culture was taken care of at the time of the epidemic. I listened very carefully to the minister at the beginning of his speech, where he said everything was taken care of. For all those who worked, it was taken care of; so for independent entrepreneurs – of course, this is probably where he meant those who work in the field of culture, because he is probably not interested in others and, of course, all others who work in cultural institutions. Now, one thing will have to be acknowledged and said out loud; the Minister of Culture comes from the SDS party. This party makes it very clear that only those who are in their electoral base domain will always be taken care of. Culture and people in culture are not their elective body. So you had to be last taken care of, and then finally only what you could then say in parentheses, czech, because we did the same thing for everyone else. I come from a family that has a lot of culture. Several family members work in the field of culture, and finally my ancestors, from writers to directors, to dancers, to creators. And, Minister of Culture, you'll be the last person to say that I know anything about culture or anything I don't know about culture. If not the other one, they'll tell me. I know that my nephews and nieces are driving and shipping pizzas today because they can no longer work in the field of culture and because they can't get certain, I'll say, help or simply don't have a job. Some go abroad, but some will not come back from abroad. But all for the price of it, because we don't have a minister in the country to step into the defense. Even in this large basket of huge money we have at our disposal, there has simply never been a listening ear for the cultural field. Otherwise, I will not say and say that all governments have so far had relatively poor cultural obedience. Far from it. There's always been a cultural problem. I have always agreed that two areas should unite in one and in this way this would become a parade horse, because in fact these two areas are a parade horse in the Slovenian space. If anyone makes the Republic of Slovenia the most advertising and most praises, it is an area of culture and sport. That is why many in the world know the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and they also include tourism, because it is the best label where you can actually combine with each other and promote and, most importantly, you get added value. Culture in the Republic of Slovenia brings enormous added value not only in the field of language, art, but also in the financial field through indirect effects. If I look only in the field of tourism in Ljubljana, how many people come from abroad due to cultural events in Ljubljana, Slovenia, in various fields! But we simply did nothing in this area at the time of the epidemic this year. Next thing you know, a museum that will be created on the emancipation of the 30th anniversary. If anyone thinks it's some new idea, he's wrong. This government has always had a constant desire to create a space, an institution that will weep for John Janša's character and work and present him as the greatest hero of this country. Something similar was happening in 2007 when the mayor of the capital and Vasko Simoniti, the then Minister of Culture, had an agreement to set up an exhibition at the Hribar Hall in Ljubljana Castle. This exhibition was only opened for one day. Of course, then a number of eyewitnesses fell down at the time, when it was a problematic performance because they assembled Milan Kučan's performance with a statement that was combined from another time, another period, to present as the greatest opponent of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and to present the character of the work of Janez Janša as the greatest. The deal went down because of one other thing. Because the then minister denied or denied, I apologize for this statement, he did not say that in fact another agreement had been concluded at the back, and this is that the permanent exhibition would go into the hands of the Military Museum and build this concept of this museum. Most of you could not see this exhibition, except those you were at the SDS at that time, because you were explicitly invited to this exhibition and you could see how quickly they put up this exhibition as soon as possible, throw some money away, and then, in the end, split it into two parts today, so that they could continue to show this matter. Today we will have a new institution called the museum, I do not know what the name of this museum will be, but something will be invented in terms of the anniversary of independence – 30 years, and they will draw from several museums various exhibits and documents where they will combine everything in the same place. That reminds me – don't you know what? To Macedonia. Macedonia has done, you will not believe, the VMRA museum, it was a so-called party that ruled there for many years and set up the museum itself. The characters and works of Macedonia’s largest political figures were inside. This is how this museum will look at where we will see these Februarys by the SDS, which will be financed by state money. I regret that the Minister of Culture not only supports all of this, but will even be the bearer of it. This is, of course, one of the reasons why Minister Vasko Simoniti, you must fall today as Minister, you simply must because you are doing harm. At the beginning of your debate, you were talking about how soft this opposition is, how it does not use the right language, how it has too little vocabulary, how it is so unthinkable; in short, extremely humiliating. I would suggest to you, Dr Vasko Simoniti, that you review the magnetograms of the meetings at the interpretations submitted by your client, your Members and those texts. I wonder what you'll feel like then. Of course, due to the lack of self-reflection and self-criticism, you will certainly propose them for a reward, with a text that, of course, does not hold. It is interesting, though, that I would transfer everything else, you know, but this tweet; not only is the text abutted, but it is even under the title of the Republic of Slovenia Ministry of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture on the official Twitter account – I do not know where, I read it – which is managed by Sir, I had to write down exactly, Mr. Iršič, whom we know where he actually does his work – on Novi24TV – and make sure that on this Twitter account, of course, birthday cards appear. See if you're already using Twitter or anything. And more importantly, for the propaganda of some clientele and, in particular, that have nothing to do with cultural events or with cultural messages at the expense of being able to do so on account and money, with the taxpayer's money in the account of the Ministry of Culture. That's more than bizarre, I'd say. This is called the stolen account of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Culture. I'll say so. What someone writes on their Twitter is their problem. If he's a public figure, of course he has a problem, like your Prime Minister doesn't understand that you're a public figure 365 days from morning to evening, whenever and you can't, when you go on Twitter, run away from your function. You just can't. That is why, of course, most people who summarize and read these texts understand that these are official views of the Ministry of Culture. And if we land – I will be very banal and very political – if the birthday card is an official position of the Ministry of Culture in February and if that is the purpose of the Ministry of Culture, then we have lost the compass. We really lost the compass. I'll finish with Metelk's 6. Metelkova 6 and the general area of Metelkova had a kind of historical seal. Last but not least, the city authorities in Ljubljana have tried, not least your party colleagues have tried to destroy this Metelkova, demolish it and make a residential settlement. Thank God, of course, Metelkova has now experienced not only the transfer of ownership to the Municipality of Ljubljana, but at least the part that is under it and its interference, that of course it is a protected area of culture in this area forever. Metelkova 6 is a building that borders between the new and the state works where the museum is, of course, it is also a kind of building. Here, in these rooms, I've never heard how much money goes without a relationship. The Prime Minister of the Government has repeatedly mentioned how much money has been thrown into this Metelk 6 if you fear and terror. Now I will tell you: we have one serious problem – and the Minister knows this very well – we have a problem with media legislation. By the way, he told her today that it was made by the previous government. I'm sorry. One letter on paper didn't come from that spirit, like you wrote in a draft and ideas about what you would actually change. Secondly, of course, what is even more important, you know that at the Ministry of Culture there is media literacy as a kind of compulsory part, which, under the directive, in order not to kill you, we simply had to introduce you in the field of the Ministry of Culture, and it also got tormented, with anguish it got its budget line. It is true that very little money on this item, but you will not believe this budget item is no longer available. This money was meant for media literacy. That money's going straight to Uko! The Ministry of Culture has simply not worked so hard to make at least a public invitation with those involved or given to a professional institution, for example, to give RTV for media literacy. No, I prefer Ukomu! This distorts what you, of course, say and realize that some people can't write interpolation and that they use, according to yours, I will interpret, if I abstract, a lower language than you would expect. Read the Ukom texts they write, read them seriously once. But not that it doesn't reach your level, which you want, but it doesn't even reach the basic level of text they write. And you as the minister of culture again, yes, indeed, what does he usually say? [[…]] No, no, that's another area, that's not my jurisdiction. So, Minister, you know, I'm gonna tell you one thing I hate to say. But you know, it's hard to tell things to people who don't understand, but it's even harder to explain to people who pretend they don't understand; and that's you. Because you have an agenda of planned destruction, of course, as your colleague Mr Petek would say, when he said about the media landscape that it's a simple desert – no, you're only working out of culture as a common cloak. This will in the long run kill what we want for the greatest value: the language and creativity of the Slovenians. You're gonna kill this whole thing. So I'm really asking you to step back while there's still time. The damage has already been done, do not continue to do harm. Believe me, in the last job you were in, you'd feel much better and much more relaxed. This job, and this profession is not for you, you've proven it many times. You weren't in the gym at first. Congratulations, you've had some good years, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Meira Hot has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! I have heard the appeal of the coalition Members, and I will be very substantive in my debate. I will try not to be personal, or I will only be personal enough to remind you of the distress and agony of those who belong under your jurisdiction. In this context, I would first touch on the agony of Slovenian film makers, remind you of the violation of the principles of the rule of law in relation to this content and the deterioration of Slovenia's reputation as business partners outside our borders. I am speaking, of course, of the stalemate of the funds approved and adopted by the previous Government in the 2019 and 2020 budget and of the current ones in the 2020 balance sheet. These were payments based on already signed contracts between the Slovenian Film Centre and producers in 2018 and 2019, which were prepared and confirmed by the Ministry of Culture for approval by the Government. Now, not only have artistic artists been begging for money all year long, they have been dealing with unreasonable additional bureaucracy; bureaucratizing the approval of projects, bureaucratizing the creation of film and its financing, and ultimately, most controversially, with unreasonable delay in giving consent to the Government, which should in fact be merely a formality and it has been in the past. Not that we have witnessed the Government delaying for seven months that the competent government committee has never proposed to the Government material for consideration, which was supposed to enable the de facto execution of the financing, but has, in fact, delayed the unexplained reasons so far and has not placed the material on the agenda of the Government in any way. And that certainly points to some perfect arrogance, some macho attitude towards film makers. The added absurdity in this context was, of course, that on the other hand, some were even faced with the requirement to draw up a back-up investment dossier. Therefore, projects that were adopted were co-financed years ago for which contractual obligations had already been met, and were suddenly required to prepare the DIP, which is certainly unacceptable and such retroactivity is unacceptable, as well as, of course, contrary to the principles of the rule of law. There were no such stalls under the previous government. They also cannot support your claim that we have heard today about the additional funds for this year's film. As the fact is, at least this is how it is to be understood from the publicly available information that the SFC has received for this year only decisions in which the majority of the funds allocated for transfer costs are still waiting for decisions for a little less than EUR 2.9 million to be published on a regular annual basis. Now we're at the end of March, Mr. Secretary-General. How long will the film wait for approval this time? Unfortunately, as Minister of Culture, you are responsible for the truly disastrous consequences both for individuals and for the entire field of film production. To refresh you, I would like to list some of the key consequences of your misunderstanding of this area. Firstly, almost all the film production planned for 2020 remained. Secondly, one large part is stopped before production and production for at least the next two years. Creative continuity was interrupted, as no calls for development and realization, for co-production, for festivals were issued. Some of last year's tenders have not been completed or are not yet completed and we do not know when they will be, since the decisions have only been forwarded recently. Since November 2019, i.e. almost a year, the majority of those who have participated and have already done most of the work in 33 projects for which payments have been made have been made. Indeed, some of them may have exercised the right to monthly basic income from March to May 2020, but this aid was then granted only for two and a half months. At best. Behind all these numbers are people with families, children, with hardships, in which they are mainly due to the abandonment of the government's duty and you, respected minister. And the re-declared epidemic will have additional devastating consequences for all those operating in the audiovisual sector. I'm talking about a sector that employs about a thousand 400 people, of which 19 are employed in public institutions. Everyone else acts like either self-employed in culture, I'm talking about screenwriters, directors of photography, sound designers, stage designers, costume designers, costume designers, editors, players, composers, one of them is employed as independent entrepreneurs, for example, various experts with very specific skills such as producers, tonic techniques, luminaires, for the realisation of the film, hired professionals also with many other profiles. In short, thousands of people can participate in the production of the film, of which about 15 percent are creative artistic professions, and all others are independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, so productive cinema is an activity that really encourages the development of economic operators. So much in the oris, how important a segment are we talking about, and how many individuals who have been directly affected by your conduct or misalignment. On 20 October 2020, the Association of Filmmakers Associations addressed to you, to the Government, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman, to appeal that funds for which contracts had already been signed should immediately be unlocked and that the Government ceases without delay the obligation to act in pursuit of the public interest in the field of film creation and immediately executes confirmation of payments already confirmed. In particular, they wrote, quote: “The government has interrupted the continuity of creation with its decisions and omissions of its duties, has plunged film workers into deep hardships and damage, and because of the irregular conditions you will suffer both the Slovenian public and the Slovenian culture as a whole.” [[…]] I am very sorry, Mr Minister, but then you did not pay attention to them, even though you should be their guardian and their advocate within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You did not even pay attention at the invitation of the Slovenian Film Centre, the Council of the Centre concerned, professional associations, individual producers. The agony in this industry continued despite additional calls from stakeholders, despite parliamentary questions, until one afternoon 31. 12. 2020, when the Slovenian Film Centre only received the money it had been fighting for throughout the year. And only with the seventh antikoronic package! Such actions cannot in any way be proud of the Government, us, the State and at least you, because they mean that the laws do not mean that the contracts signed mean nothing, that you do not respect one of the oldest rules of contract law, which, by the way, is very much quoted by the honourable Mr. Horvat, and that is, the pata sunt servanda, that is, the river which provides that contracts are to be respected. This seems to apply to all stakeholders, except for the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because if they behaved like this in civil transport, then the treaty would be subject to absolute sanctions by the unfaithful party. In the event that the contractual obligations are assumed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall not do so. Work done, obligations made, payments made from nowhere. We have only witnessed the severe social and existential hardships in which, with respect to the Minister, you have brought them down; you, by absolved of your duty, have violated existing legislation and signed and entered into contractual obligations. I am convinced that by blocking the exercise of public interest in the film field with your decisions, you have suspended the Slovenian Film Centre Act by suspending your resignations, breaking the continuity of creation and throwing film workers into very deep distress and that the damage caused by the unregulated conditions is also suffered by the Slovenian public as a Slovenian culture as a whole. It would, of course, touch upon the catastrophic situation in the area of the meeting industry, where we have also witnessed exceptional agony for a good year, the severe pressures of all those working in the sector. You have repeatedly been alerted to the problems of this sector. So, as early as May 2020, the Social Democrats called for urgent meetings of the Committee on Economics and the Committee on Culture, at which we very much reminded you of the difficulties in question, we have put forward concrete proposals which were in line with stakeholders and which, unfortunately, you have ignored completely again. It seems that all the appeals of an individual, a participant in the meeting industry, have repeatedly stumbled upon a completely deaf ear and even on a mockery, if you have already received help, what do you want. And yes, it is necessary to admit that some of the aid is in the form of a minimum compensation for the loss of income, so they receive EUR 700 net per month. Is that enough? Is this help enough for them to actually relieve them of the day - to - day hardships they face? I don't think so. It should be noted, preliminaryly, that this is a sector in which work has been banned all last year. It's a sector that's never even started to work. Never! Despite the cancellation of the epidemic, the industry met the industry that had never begun to operate. They receive some kind of charity, but all they want is to work and be heard that they are no longer despised. Nevertheless, they remain forgotten, they remain ignored, despite all the attempts on the Committee on Culture simply did not detect any movement. They are cultural creators and they still remind you of the irregularities of your operation, both in the form of protests that lined up in front of the Ministry, with installations like the action We are a culture, because finally all those who are on the stage, like those who are behind it, get a face; the face that you have unfortunately forgotten and with whom you want to conduct dialogue. At the end of the week, we were able to monitor television reports that not only show some alarming situation, but only in the concert area in 2020, between 150m and 180m euros of revenue are estimated. Concert organizers, musicians, tonic technicians, lanterns, whistle-blowers, all professions associated with concert activity, point out that the ban on performing activities literally took away all their sources of survival overnight. Everything. That with about 6,000 employees alone in this sector, you do not know when they will be able to start their activities again, that they are going abroad in the first place, that they are reclassified unfortunately to other industries, that they leave primary activities because they simply cannot survive and can no longer see the lights at the end of the tunnel. And that's the biggest loss that threatens us, the loss of knowledge, the loss of people, the loss of priceless knowledge. It may be necessary for society to change its attitude towards culture, Mr Minister-respected, but above all you should change it. You should be the first defender to take care of the sector and the sector you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	I'd just like to say for a moment, given what the lady said to me. Look, we've said it all over again 85 times. Okay, you're accusing me. I stand here and, of course, defend myself. You're saying the movies haven't been made and that's why the entire film industry has stopped. So I don't know, we gave them all the money. I don't know why then – how did they spend it? How did they do it? So, the movies were made, and even 700,000 euros were left. I'm not saying they weren't late payments, but the film production was running as fast as it could, given the circumstances that were everywhere. And you're talking about abroad, so also abroad, movies haven't been made to the extent and at the pace that they've been used to. So, about that much. About the meeting industry. Of course, you speak one and the same, one and the same, one and the same, one and the same. I've said the same thing a thousand times, it doesn't belong in the department of the Ministry of Culture! This falls under the Ministry of the Economy and I ask that this be taken into account and addressed to the right addressees and, of course, that this is also arranged in the place where it is to be arranged. However, this industry has been affected, deeply affected, and I agree, as has many other areas. The state has tried measures such as these; you say it is insufficient. You're saying that people have retreated into other professions, that they've gone, what do you say, abroad. I don't know if they went to do the same thing they did here. Again, so that doesn't belong to me. On the other hand, I would really like to hear because the state has been working so hard on how you would arrange this industry to meet in concrete terms so that you would know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Both applicants made a statement. Mr. German first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	I'll probably be in the movie part, maybe my colleague will be on the other stuff. You know, it's hard to follow your words, because there's been a lot of writing about the film industry, a lot of recorded, a lot of saying, we've talked a lot about this topic in the National Assembly. You have evidence of, for example, what was done in Italy. In fact, despite the epidemic, the film industry has adapted with the help of the State. Let me tell you that in the vicinity of Furlania, a number of films were made, even with Slovenian players and even with the Slovenian director who pointed out in this case. So it is true that the film industry has been globally affected, but it is very evident from country to country, and that is what our creators working abroad are concerned about, how such problems are being tackled abroad. One more thing. Here, film makers have clearly explained to us, and not to misunderstand me now, but they understand what you're doing as blackmail. That's what they said several times. The biggest problem has arisen, not that you don't like our film makers, they were embarrassed by the co-production and the commitments they made on the international scene. And that's what makes our country, us, also you, Minister, very uncomfortable. So if you want or don't want to guess, or you want to help, or you don't want to help, that's your problem. But our problem is when you're dealing with people who can't help themselves. In this case, when looking at the differences between film producers abroad and Slovenia, there are clear differences. So in this segment we can be more than critical of you; not only because of the failure to pay, but basically because of the failure to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Let me tie up. Yes, Minister, I'm really sorry that you don't care about this department and you don't follow good practices either. As the co-proposer has already said, films are being made and it is not true that they are not being recorded, and our film makers are working. Of course they respect distances, all security measures, but here you have also prevented their co-production and all the commitments that have been made. In virtually all countries in the world, including those where cinema is similar to Slovenia. For example, in neighbouring Austria, one million euro has already been allocated to development projects during the first wave. The entire annual budget of the Film Institute has increased by two million euros, and in the summers it has already set up a crisis fund to solve its 25 million cinema. The neighbouring Croatia has restructured part of the money refund for foreign producers and rather spent eight million euros on its own productions, and allocated an additional 700 000 to projects that needed assistance to close financial structures with foreign co-producers. You didn't do anything here. In order to solve its cinematography, the Czech Republic earmarked €3.5 million, half of which to promote films when the cinematographers were reopened and EUR 500 000 for films whose production was interrupted by the epidemic. The neighbouring Italy has allocated EUR 640 million to its film industry because 60 per cent is more than the regular annual budget line. In short, model solutions exist if there is political will, but you obviously don't care. You're so pleased with yourself, so sure you're doing great. The Berlin Meetings Industry – experimentally opens concert and theatre houses. The pilot project was joined by about a dozen concert halls and theatres. In short, they have strict rules of course and they have distances and everything, but they're trying to do something and the creators can live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Look, the creators can live. You know, in Germany, England, France, they've fired a lot of people, by the way, also in the area of culture, by the way. We have all these inputs expressed through the CAP, these anti-Korona laws, compared the content of what has been happening abroad, and all around this matter has been levelled. Something else can be called or whatever, but it's about the same thing everywhere, because you know, because we haven't been looking for some originality and so on. We have been looking for optimal things, and even so, as I have already said, in addition to all the resources given for programmes and for running establishments, we should not even be given programmes, for example, because they were not performed in theatres, I don't know where, because they were not given abroad, by the way. But in addition to all this full budget, which was for 2020, we have given 68 million additional. So, about those things when you said they were making movies. Indeed, the Croats beat us to the punch, but not until last year, even two, three years ago in terms of this investment, I think foreign producers filming in their country are returning that 25% and so on. We know exactly what this is about. We've dedicated one million this year, they've already made one movie, as you know, on Bloodbath or somewhere, and we're waiting, of course, for the bills to come and we'll pay for it. So we gave one million euros for these foreign filmmakers. In addition, we also increased the budget for a movie by one million, and also in Eurimages, of course, we promoted the recording of Slovenian films and it was thanks to this, I just got a notice, I also got 205,000 euros in one film with us, and even when Mr. Mesec said to me earlier, Kappa, he also got the funds, that is, 70 thousand and 69 and so on. Look, we're familiar with all these things, of course, and different countries approach and invest in this in a different way. Only we have entered this place in the way of these paybacks, the one, third, fourth, waiting and so on, in a different way, such as in the Czech Republic, the same goes in the film, in part, or between film workers and other professions in culture. In total, however, there is a budget, not a budget, but there has been an additional 68 million for the culture field today. But as far as the industry is concerned, please, I have nothing to do with this, and the ministry had nothing to do with it before, as I would say, to the department, and it will not take over, even though it is forceful. I don't know why, you probably come or come through easier in the field of culture or what they have that feeling. I have to say, I really don't know, but this belongs to another department, and that's where it needs to be arranged. For 21,000 self-employed or more, for 100,000, pardon, this basic income was set aside in the amount of EUR 1000,100, as you know. Austria had this basic income, gave thousands of euros, by the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Dear Minister, I would really like to have a question or a proposal. You're just getting away from this work, and I want to pin it on you, not for your responsibility, but because you're part of a collective body called the Government. Dear Minister, we are in a paradoxical situation where 700 people can be in the shopping centre in the Republic of Slovenia, and at the same time we are in a paradoxical situation, that the Stožice game, where there are 16 thousand seats, should not be a hundred people, except now because it is playing the Slovenian national team against Croatia in two hours. And the Olympic Committees have drawn up a government plan to open the country, concerning sports activities from green to black, and the government has not even listened. Why am I telling you this? Since I am sure that not only in the area of culture, but also in that segment of creative cultures or in the industry of meetings that you are thus warming up, in the coming period, depending on the epidemiological picture, depending on the number of vaccinated people, on the number of overcrowded people, the government can engage in a direction that, in the period when temperatures are higher, people can be allowed to create their own bread. That's why we expect you to react, but not just freely after Presherno, you say I can't do that, so I'm not responsible. Of course you are responsible; you are responsible for all those people who are fighting for bread today and for the well-being of our citizens and citizens, like all of us and all of us, we are on the same side as you. So this is not about sharing responsibility, you are part of a collective body, and let us be an innovative, respected minister, so we urge you to think about how to find a solution in the government. If we have found solutions to find 700 people in the same shopping center, we cannot find a solution so that people in an open amphitheatre in May can see an art play or play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Just for a little while. Look, we're talking about the same problem. But when you talk about sports events, see, in the large stadiums that receive 100,000 people, no one sits; and in England, Spain, Italy and everywhere, in Germany, after these great giants. You know that measures are tightening up in all these countries or in England, but they have more than 50 percent of the people already vaccinated at the first dose, that is, all adults, and still have measures. They made a clock that doesn't change it, no matter how well the image changes, they don't move dates, but they stick hard because they realized that the only way to do it is to solve a catastrophic situation in which they themselves have fallen. The vaccinated have 52 percent of the people, you know, but they still keep the stadiums empty, they still keep the industry meetings, concerts and the like, they're still closed, they're exclusively private-owned, and they forgive people because they're not like us and so on. This is similar, so in the continental part we have nationals who are supported by the state or at least co-financed to a large extent through private funds, institutions, but these things are empty, both in Vienna, both in Graz, both in Celovac and in neighbouring Croatia. For a while they tried some performances even chamber performances in Croatia, but they also closed it up and went through digital matters and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] So, they, they, they shut down, they shut down, they pulled back. The situation is getting worse everywhere. So don't give people a feeling, really, that we're getting a kick out of this serious thing, so one would say, let's go who's going to be someone on this side. I admit, we can make mistakes and so on, but they don't do anything else abroad. For example, in stronger countries where they have greater potential and are also aware of what it means, if people don't work or if they fall, say, cultural performances and so on. So I'm sorry, we're not gonna find a solution here and we're gonna listen to this medical profession. I've had contact with the theaters, they've come to me many times, they've also said to look for opportunities and so on. Sure, let's find them, but we can't find them, because in the end, forgive me if the director of the theater takes responsibility. You understand because he's the director, so he's paid there. In short, you know, we're looking for a minister. How am I supposed to know about medicine now? Make a suggestion. Vote! Please! But I'm telling you, you're not gonna make it. Not that it would be, because I think it's necessary to be smart, to endure for four more months or maybe six. [[…]] I hope it's four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Mateja Udovč has the floor to prepare Mrs Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that I'm not a judge myself, and I'm not going to judge, and I'm not going to judge anyone, and I'm not going to put myself on any side, not on the left and not on the right, and I'm just going to add my little piece of mosaic to this interpretation. We're really pouring pure wine here today, and that's the way it is. Each debater shall add his views to the work of the Minister. This is similar to each painting that has its own painter, while we must not forget that for each picture there is also a customer who likes this painting. I therefore understand today, on the one hand, the proposaler of the interpretation, who builds and shows the minister what he is doing wrong, and I also understand, on the other hand, the colleagues and colleagues who present the Minister in a positive light. I wasn't in politics before 2018, I wasn't an active politician, so today I can't tell you how 30 years in culture was drained of honey and milk, except at the time of the minister of Dr Vasko Simoniti. I'm kind of putting this together today and listening to my colleagues and my colleagues. It was interesting to discuss with the proposer, very interesting that it was only because of Janša's laws in culture that it was impossible to get a job. That one was a little low. True, I have not been in this chair as a Member for a long time, but I will be able to learn whether there is any way or legal norm to adopt a law that cannot be amended; I do not know what form of law that is permanent. Please, I'll be very happy. I would have made excellent proposals myself, I would have proposed an excellent proposal for a law that could not be repealed, amended, corrected if that was true. If that's true. But also today, we have heard from one of the debaters that the SDS in culture does not have its electorate and because it does not have its constituents in culture, it will last for them. And I was asked the rhetorical question that this is a very interesting thought. Whose election base is this anyway? Well, if I don't have a memory, there's been a lack of finance in culture for 30 years and there's a lack of conditions for work. Do any of the culturers even believe that? Who can believe that? Six days ago, it hadn't been 10 days ago, when we had interpellations, today is this unfinished story again. The story of someone, something that they would like to cause political instability in any way, a new government or perhaps an early parliamentary election. Of course, these are serial interpretations under the responsibility of parliamentary control of the Government's work. The right thing to do, the right thing to do. I have discussed this on the same subject on two interpellations, and I will repeat it today, even though people then say that I always say the same thing. Yes, I always say the same thing because I always have the same views about these interpretations at this time. Also, these interpretations are striking for pre-election performances, performances in which we can address our voters with the words of their language, the language they understand. If I have so far been a little naive about the well-intentioned operation of the opposition, I no longer believe it after the discussions in the last two interpolations. In ten days, we will spend approximately 45 hours discussing interpolations, which are already seen from the plane that they will not succeed even because of the arguments, and even less from the point of view of the deployment of political power. There's new promises coming, I'm sure. Does anyone wonder how much it costs? Or what could be useful for citizens at this time? Or, after all, what will citizens and citizens have from this interpretation? Nothing! In recent days, I have repeatedly stressed that I respect interpellation as an institution of parliamentary control over the work of the Government, but in sound reasoning, I could say to the CAP, not by law, but by common sense, not by force and so forth, by saying that it is our legitimate tool and that Members should decide according to their conscience. While we have been wise for long hours, we are wandering around Parliament and dealing with ourselves, while the caravan is moving on, driving on. The caravan, which we must or are obliged to stop, is a covid-19 virus and consequently a pandemic. The data clearly shows that we are quietly entering the third phase of the epidemic. The virus has no interest in who and how it will rule us, but it wants to know how it will mutate, avoid our actions, and survive. It is clear to these primitive works that they must react and change straight away if they want to survive. What about us, a highly civilized being, what do we not understand here? Clearly, it is not clear to us that we will only be able to control the pandemic by cooperating, connecting, and acting in a unified way to defeat the virus. Together, we must fight the virus, not separate people and encourage them to disregard the necessary measures. You can tell me that I am completely not sticking to the subject of this debate, but this is somehow somehow related. It is related to wasting energy and valuable time on things that are of secondary importance at this time and should be cleared up after a successful fight with the Coronavirus. It's true, it's true, culturers are fighting the crisis now in these times, tough times, but they're not the only ones. They're not the only ones. Tourist workers are also fighting this battle, the guides are in the same position, so this obvious is not in place at this time. As for today's specific interpretation against Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister of Culture, I hope that at least the debate will be cultural, reasoned and level-based, as is the case with the protagonists of this interpretation. Too many insults, unfounded accusations and other omissions have recently been heard in this hall too many times, and it has shed a very poor light on us and on our work. For all of us, not for him, for you, for all of us. As I have already made clear in the previous debates, I have no intention of discussing long and wide all charges, allegations in interpretation, and we will hear and talk and justify much more about this. However, I must point out that in one year the government could only do what it is and that it was probably not able to solve all the accumulated problems for 30 years, including the media law, RTV, STA, the Film Fund and all the other top issues in this area. Perhaps some of the Minister's decisions could be different, more popular, more populism, but he and his team made the same decision as he did. We must be aware that laws, regulations, treaties, other rules governing relations also apply to culture and culture. Respect or compliance is a matter for both sides. In case of infringements, we have a well-managed and effective legal system for judging in these matters. So I'm not going to judge and judge who's to blame. Public responses from cultural workers and artists at the time of the epidemic have also not always been entirely constructive and correct. Their expression left a mark on the decisions and conduct of many citizens and citizens. Saying that it is artistic inspiration or youthful dispersion is quite naive. The same has happened to the public media, but at other times. I will only present my experience of cooperation with Dr Vask Simoniti, who has been completely professional and correct so far. We are working together with the management of Žirovnica Municipality in the regulation of Prešeren's birth house and the revitalisation of the Vrba 1 facility, which belongs to this complex. In the municipality of Žirovnica they want to train and use all facilities in this complex for the presentation of cultural heritage, history and not least for the development of cultural tourism in the region, in the region of Gorenjska. In order to successfully implement the project and coordinate the activities between the Ministry and the municipality, a working group was set up before the arrival of Minister Vask Simoniti, who was responsible and inactive. That is why, at the initiative of Mayor Žirovnica Leopold Pogačar, I asked the Minister an oral question. He answered my question correctly and pledged to look into the matter in his ministry and later in the field. According to my information, the working group has started to function again and is already in the final phase of its activities and I hope it will be until 30. 4. finished her work. I believe that the deadlines set by the working group may be set for some day, but I hope that my debate today will encourage the Minister to ask the leader of the working group whether it is true that they will miss their hands or what reasons they have for delaying their hands if they miss them. That's mine. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Mrs. Widow, I'm truly sorry. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	I'll finish. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Because I'm disturbing you, but this subject is suitable for the minister's parliamentary questions. [[…]] I'm really asking you to focus on today's interpolation and not run some kind of pirate. Please. Here you go. Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Dear Vice President, it wasn't a pierre. I told you in the beginning that each painting has its own painter and that everyone sees the minister in his own light. And I'm going to tell you my attitude to the minister and how I see him and I'm asking you to let me. But I was in the final phase, and I should only say two more sentences. That's how you took 30 seconds from me. This is my positive experience with the Minister; a minister we can talk to if we want to talk at all. The problems specifically exposed, including the solution, have much more opportunities for a favourable timeframe than a million problems for which even the problem proponents do not have the right solutions. Each one of us can overlay and show his mark in a million ways, but we can show positive things and awaken in them the positive side of his being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Two explanations first. I allow a broader debate, and I also allow everyone to discuss, in a specific and abstract manner, the topic that is on the agenda today. You have made it very clear, Madam Member, that there is a need to discuss the points defined in the interpretation in a long and broad way, according to your words. Unfortunately for you for a long time and for a wide discussion about the Municipality of Žirovnica, which is not the topic of interpretation, I have therefore warned you that this is a more topic which raises the question of Members. That's the first explanation. Another explanation, given that I believe that a citizen is also following us, is that the members of the National Assembly do not receive any supplement or spend any more tax money than they do with their salaries, if it is interpolation today or if it is not. I have been so obliged to explain from the point of view of the leadership of the National Assembly, which I belong to, that there will be no misunderstandings about someone eating away some euro today. So much for my explanation. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert now has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have two motions. If you answer my first question, then I'll understand that the other one is not necessary. First one's next. On the basis of what article of the Rules of Procedure can you Members say that its debate is a pier? What criteria do you have for assessing individual debates as pear? Otherwise, I'm going to have such an awkward thought in the future when there's some kind of interpolation, because at the very beginning, we might find that it's a pyro, and then we might end the matter. So I'm asking you here for a serious explanation. Secondly, because I believe that this is the fruit of your fatigue, I propose by the Rules of Procedure that you leave the guidance to someone else, because such interference with the debates of Members and Members is unacceptable. I believe that you did not do this on purpose, although I sometimes have my doubts about your “purposes”. Of course, I also ask you to make sure that there is peace in the hall, for Matjaž the German has already hidden his hands, and in the light of his knowledge of the past I fear little. Otherwise, I have a husband who will take care of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Anya Bah Žibert, have you finished? Thank you. Of course, I will answer you with what article I warned Mrs Widower. This is Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda. I have made it clear that the question of the municipality of Žirovnica and I will not repeat what Mrs Udovč spoke about is none of the points or perceptions of the interpretation and therefore I was obliged to warn her. As far as my assessment is concerned, it's a matter of piranhas, but it's a matter of expression. If I have offended her with this, I sincerely apologize to her, but I still insist on discussing today only the points that are being read to the Minister in the interpretation. With regard to interfering substantively with the debate, this is not what I am doing, and even in the case of Mrs Udovč, I have not done so, but I suggest, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, that you read a magnetogram of the meeting when your fellow Member led, and you will see what is the substantive interference in the debates of Members. Now he has the floor to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	I'm not gonna answer to my colleague. I'm still surprised at how much hatred there is between us every time, but I wanted to speak in particular about the Minister's statement. In fact, it's amazing how this digital world allows us to quickly check certain data. So the minister said there was no show in Croatia. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer asked me as a representative of the proposer, because we have checked that they are on today's show and I will read to you, not only in Zagreb, but also in Croatia the rule is that performances are carried out, not just those where live music is performed, so ballet and operas are excluded here. Drama plays and music concerts, these are to a lesser extent, I talk to soloists, and they've been going on all the time. Even in the ballet, they performed activities for a time, but without an orchestra. So the Minister, there are opportunities and we have in our vicinity the least appropriate at this time is probably Italy because of rapid growth, but there are countries that can do it on a smaller scale. But as we have already said, we can do it in stores, we can do it in the National Assembly, this morning there was a circus 120 in a closed space and I still don't understand – and my question is, in a month, two and even today, why we can't have some kind of performance in an open amphitheatre in some small, moderate scale, of course under certain conditions. As has already been said, more and more people are being slaughtered and already a quarter of the population are approaching a third of the population, with a cobbler in the past; it is said that there should be a better time for us from this point of view. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	I thank you for this correction and I will check, too, and we will also talk about this on the competent authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Natasa Sukič has the floor, Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, nice greetings and others, too! Thank you, Madam President, for explaining how much such interpretation costs us. What a colleague used to have is a little too much. This interpretation does not cost us, respected citizens and citizens, nothing; except our patience to sit here and try with arguments, and your patience to listen to this. It is not that the Minister has not been able to resolve everything that has accumulated in the cultural sector in the past 30 years. Of course, we know that the cultural sector, that culture has never been in an enviable position, but it is more so that the minister has afforded so many wrong moves and things in just one year that I do not know if they have accumulated in the 1930s so many truly unprecedented things. And I'm only going to touch some, because I'm sorry I'm not allowed time, but I could talk for a few hours about what happened wrong this past year. And that's not something that I would like to do perfectly for the minister; a minister who, unfortunately, in the first sentence of today's defence against interpretation, has cynically escaped that the applicants are imagining that they represent the whole culture. I mean, what kind of defense is this, Minister, against interpeel? This is what you are saying, in fact, that you should represent and protect the entire cultural shit, not that its enlightened, progressive, socially engaged, thinking, urban and free-thinking parts with your willful moves slowly and confidently kill them and shamelessly, without a shred of respect, you label them as cheaters and charlatans, which you will clean up from the examination of the self-employed in culture and, of course, cut off the social contributions paid for them by the state. With all due respect, Minister, but many of your statements by many do not arouse any optimism. I don't know if you've seen it, but I do believe that you did, the results of the research carried out by the Polygon and the MAO and where 85% of people working in the field of culture who participated in the research, the government's actions for the cultural sector are considered insufficient or barely sufficient. But obviously, just like you just waved your hand, you don't have to worry about that at all, it's none of your business, because it's none of your business. With your non-dialogue, with this kind of arrogance that you show today, with the cynicism that you have shown in the first sentence, by not respecting the profession since the beginning of your term, you are actually saying that your purpose is essentially to decompose certain cultural NGOs and to at least decimate self-employed cultural workers and workers. Instead of being the first defender, the first protector of culture, her guardian, in fact, you are, unfortunately, using the methods of revenge and even erasing those who are disturbing — for whom? I think that for Janez Janša and the SDS party; but you only obey what needs to be obeyed. But I'm going to tell you why I think that at the conclusion. Just wave again with your hands. That's your relationship. What can I say? By doing so, you say your relationship, your disrespect for the opinions of others. So much for plurality of opinion. About your profile, unfortunately, you've already gone rogue today, and you're surprised at fat, and now you're going to do it again. You'll swing your hand five times. Indeed, your profile is eloquently witnessed by the recent media scandal associated with the raised NTA – your party's new media satellite, the respected minister. Because the NTA is run by a responsible editor who is a sincere wannabe holocaust, Aleš Ernekel, your client friend — right? In his last conversation with his guest, known as the collateralist, conspiracy theorist and racist Stefan Molyneux, he has already openly announced in the first sentence of the conversation that he is leading, beware, a new Slovenian fascist medium called the NTA. He decidedly declared: a fascist medium. And has the Minister responsible for the media in this country, after this fiasco of the media's latest satellite, in any way distanced himself from this fascist media called the National Press Agency, which, while on its Twitter account, Prime Minister Janša occasionally supports with some kind of retweet? Did you or didn't you? You didn't! Your colleague, Gorenak, did. How do you interpret that? And you are the minister responsible for the media landscape in this country. Have you ever protected yourself against the admiring of Urbania and Ukom? Of course not! You'll say it's none of my business. Of course it's none of your business. The most basic backbone of the media landscape WHAT matters to our minister is that he will do nothing to protect the STA. On the contrary, he will help sink this STA — right? And, of course, Minister, I believe you'll say again what you have to say about it, but you do, Minister, oh, you've had enough! Even Vinko Gorenak knows who Janšev’s secretary of state is that this is a little harsh statement and has rushed away from it, and has even given up his involvement in this project. You don't; you're here today pretending as it is in your manner that you have nothing to do with it, you don't even know who it is and so on. You sell that kind of noise to someone else. Then we move to Metelkova 6. The Valjar of the Culture Minister in his proven manner threatens to expel and destroy this cultural zone on Metelkov 6, which is, in fact, even though Janez Janša continues to wonder what they have ever done and everyone like the parrots repeat behind him, but it is a zone that is an extremely productive non-governmental, artistic and theoretical core, a centre that combines progressive theoretical and cultural and artistic production and a very, very important NGO. I'll tell you what they're doing later, even though my colleague Violeta was already saying it, but you weren't in here, and I'll tell you clearly who we're supposed to do it with. Especially you, Members and Members of the SDS, who are constantly whining about how money is spent there and who these people and these organisations are. But the biggest government party is Metelkova 6 more than apparently too dangerous, too left, too critical and therefore this orchestrated attack on Metelkova 6, which has been going on for some time. For example, this is a leitmotiv on various committees. I'm sitting on a committee where we're talking, I don't know, about the National Plan for Resistance and Recovery, and I'm hearing from the SDS a metelkov punch. Wherever I come from, you're hitting on the Metelk. Janša had something here, he spoke and he turned to us and asked what they were doing if we could list one achievement of the organization with Metelkova. I mean, it's so rude that she doesn't have money! Minister, unfortunately, with what you've done, you've been cooperating and attaching to this leitmotive, this latting that you've been affording yourself, it's a parasite NGO that's been sucking out of a state manger, and I don't know how much money it is. Well, I took a little look at what it's like to suck money. Look, I have here a list from Erar, where these data are, exactly where you can see, which is the 20 largest recipients of public funds among NGOs. 20 biggest recipients. And look, from this list it is clear that among the top 20 recipients of public funds there is not even one NGO with Metelkova 6, and therefore the first place is the Institute of St. Stanislav, the sixth place of the Institute of Martin Slomška, which are two church organisations before, for example, the Ski Association of Slovenia, which is in the seventh place. Among the twenty there are four or five civil society organisations associated with the Roman Catholic Church, the only exception for us who do not pay taxes, however, is the large sum of public money, the public budget. So, Your Honor, see how the Esdees now nod, who are constantly chirping and chirping and chattering about how much money other non-governmental organizations are sucking out of the state budget. Let me also remind you that religious workers in the PKP are highly privileged towards self-employed people in culture – and culturers should be your priority – as they receive in addition to €700 a month a crisis allowance of 100 per cent of the average wage, while the increasingly decimated and destitute self-employed in culture receive only 60% of the minimum wage. Minister, you're sitting in the government, you could make sure these two are equal, and you're not. And you're not, because this shows where your priorities are. So much for your concern for cultural workers and workers, and then you're surprised he's such a rave. Look, you're wondering, you think you're doing great, and you have no idea how these people are living right now because you have no idea. With your salary and your ratings, you're dreaming. And who are you workers we're talking about? For example, among self-employed people, I have already told you this in the oral question of Parliament, there are 61 different professions. These are not only artists and artists who seem to you to be some weirdos who smoke our money, but they actually include 61 professions, such as archeologist, architect, archivist, librarian, art historian, galleryr, cultural heritage interpreter, curator, preserver, translator, galleryr, editor, cinema operator and many others. 61 different professions, very specific professions and many of these people are self-employed cultural workers and workers living in horribly difficult conditions. The Minister or Minister, whoever runs this department, must be the first to fight and strive to preserve these professions and protect these people. But the sad fact is, Minister, that we are witnessing literally the crusade of your party, our prime minister, and unfortunately you are also here. In short, you have embarked on one of the most vulnerable parts of culture and cultural creation in fact on NGOs in the field of culture. This is a special chapter. As I come from the non-governmental sector alone, I have decided to pay special attention to this. The cancellation of leases for NGOs on Metelkova 6, has literally taken place overnight, like lightning from the clear and owner of premises on Metelkova 6, says the Ministry of Culture, in the letter did not really explain why tenants and users have to move out, except for the indication that the Ministry will restore it and make it its own. Okay, we just found out. Now we'd like to put the Natural History Museum there, even though it would be the ideal location for it near the zoo, which was also planned, but no, it's now all of a sudden you've made up your mind. The restoration of the long-lasting building is of course not controversial, it is clear as a white day, it is also clear to Metelkovci, but not at the time of the worst epidemic, Minister, and not without some really dialogue, civil dialogue, agreement with users, but not just sending such a letter. And remember, after moving in with the rents, tenants co-financed a loan, with which the building had already partially been renovated and probably the building would have collapsed if these NGOs had not maintained the operating costs and so do not lie in the SDS to avoid paying for electricity, water and so on. They pay – I tell you firsthand – they pay. If you don't believe it, ask the SPL, which is the manager of the building on Metelkova 6, and they will tell you that these NGOs themselves pay the costs, operating expenses, on Metelkova 6. Metelkova 6 operates over 20 outstandingly and also in the international space, prominent NGOs, mainly in the field of culture and art, including the Department of Mask, NSK, Škuc Society, City of Women, SCCA, Dance Theatre Ljubljana, Stripburger and so on and so on. Here are creative spaces, publications, several libraries, art collections, offices, archives, the entire infrastructure for their operation and now, in the middle of the epidemic – where should they go, Minister? Should these libraries be moved to a moldy basement? Let the books dance in some basements? Where would you put the archives and the books? You don't care, do you? Just get them out of here, right? The minister also forgets that there are a number of organizations on Metelkov 6 that are heirs — who? Civil society movements from the 1980s, which in fact liberated our society, which promoted social change that encouraged democratisation and demilitarisation of society. For example, Shkuc Society, I have been active in the Shkuc Society for over 30 years. We were part of these social movements back then, and I know exactly what was going on, so don't sell us fog here. Look, these are the values once defended by no one but Prime Minister Janez Janša! Now you've forgotten all this and you're jumping at these organizations. While other non-governmental organisations are coming to help with high-end support, our ministry throws such organisations on the road overnight. And let's stop blinding ourselves! This minister's move basically means banning cultural activities or abolishing organisations that are already living in these times of crisis, but now they should remain — what else? Without jobs, and they don't even know where they're going to put all this production and all that's there, that infrastructure. It is very sad, Minister, that it is just you, Minister of Culture, that eliminate the top NGOs that are recognised by all of Europe and the whole world, but not you. These tenants on Metelkova 6, I'm sorry, they're not any tenants. This is the address where he creates the producer of the second most watched film about Slovenia's independence, where the institution, which co-produced the theatre performance awarded with the big Borštnik award, is the institute that has taken over and saved the status of more than 10,000 deleted, but this is what bothers you the most, and probably everyone else will get hurt. Here is an institution that signs gifted young musicians who are now world-renowned music masters, a society that hosts 650 events a year for children and adults and attracts 35,000 visitors, here are the creators of the international film festival Kino Island, which has attracted over 50,000 viewers. Here are the companies responsible for the professionalization of contemporary dance in Slovenia and in which they created internationally recognized choreographers and also awardees of the Prešeren Fund, such as Iztok Kovač and Matej Rebolj. Here the studio has a world-renowned group of visual artists IRWIN from the Neue Slovenianische Kunst movement, which exhibits, among other things, in the New York Momi and in London's Tate Modern and around the world. Here they create Leibach, who sold over a million albums and performed thousands of concerts around the world, a respected minister from North America to North Korea. Here they create NGOs and creators to whom the country has been and should continue to be justifiably proud. But she was so proud until you came that their work was rewarded with recognitions and with their achievements you boasted when the country was to be represented abroad. And that's right. It's been like this until now. Finally, Škuc works here, whose authors and authors are recipients or nominees of the highest state literary awards. In short, in the 25 years, the well-respected minister, the works of the Metelkova have been produced here, as I have told you, by superior cultural and artistic creations. With such production, with such a production core, which is an extraordinary core in this country, you really behave so stepmotherly and so toy, so you don't care. You don't care if they go, do you? And these are the facts, respectable, and let your SDS Twitter roomers still mutilate the Metelkovci, and let Members at each session speak of what these people have done, and deny the value that is enormous. Look, Minister, I'm surprised. Today I got to the table what Luka Mesec already mentioned, because I finally showed him this interview that in an interview with Maja Smrekar you actually showed that you have extraordinary knowledge, extraordinary capacity. But I don't understand how it's possible that, on the one hand, unlike Alice Jeraj, a colleague who used to spit on this same Maja Smrekar, you so perfectly understand the artistic opus of this internationally recognized artist, but you prefer to choose some politics and obedience to the SDS agenda. I don't understand this because in this interview you've really shown both the knowledge and capacity and the secularism that some people are talking about today, but after working as a minister, unfortunately you don't say it, but you've given up literally your own capacities. This is what is sad that your potential is consciously directed towards the wrong goals, and that is what is sad and that is what is causing great harm this moment to cultural workers, cultural workers, culture as a whole in the Republic of Slovenia, if you continue in this direction of course. That's what I'm going to support today's interpolation for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Procedural proposal? Comrade Doblekar. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	I don't know what a procedural proposal is. I'd like to answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	He has the advantage of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, President. I would like to draw attention to one matter that has disturbed me very much, and I would like to ask that they be disregarded or that the same criteria are met. In front of you, she held a meeting with Vice-President Tina Heferle and stopped the debate by Matejo Udovč, who spoke about cases of good practice with the Ministry. I think it was very appropriate and very good debate, it wasn't just spitting and building and something like that. Now, in this debate, I listened to Ambassador Sukičeva in the 3rd minute of the Valicon survey, in 5 minutes of the National Press Agency, in 6th minute of Gorenak, at 8. The plan for resistance and recovery, in the 12th Crusade, in the 15th Premier Janez Janša, in the 17th deleted, and in the end an interview between Smrekareva and Jerajeva. However, I did not detect all these contents in the interpolation and are not subject to interpolation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Each of the presidents and vice-presidents has a slightly different way of leading. I must say that I belong to the more liberal, I will not touch your word as long as you stick to some cultural discourse. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukičeva, yes, I have a few things to answer or to clear up. Now you're telling me my friend is a client or something, Mr. Ernekel. Well, I don't know how to say it. I don't have a Twitter, I don't have a Facebook, and behind me is my chief of staff, who can confirm to you that I don't know the technique at all. Even if my phone goes dead, it's hard to find anything and so on. Really, I have nothing to do with these people, and I've never seen them in my life. Maybe, I don't know, I don't remember. And I had nothing to do with it. Please, I have nothing to do with this! If one of them is setting up a fascist newspaper or something like that – for God's sake, I hope the police come and get him. I hope it can't be. Now I don't know what to say: Mr. Ernekel, I'm moving away from you. Is he okay? I don't know how to do that. I had nothing to do with it, I don't know it, I don't know anything about it, and I don't cheat. For God's sake! All right, now, what about Metelkov? Firstly, see what was less for NGOs in 2020 when we took over this power. So, what was wrong? Did you get any less? I think they all got more because they got more from the PKP besides some money, and there was nothing else. About the location. I think they're really doing these NGOs that you've praised and represented with great success, which I have no doubt, and I'm not going to discuss because I don't think it's necessary. This location, if you look at this architectural arrangement, is really ideal for this museum district, no. That's right. It can't get any better. This is a perfect thing and it can really be a great conclusion to this place and this is what Mr Poznits already found out, this has already been realized, sir, I don't know who else was the minister before, the plans have been made, all the plans have been made and so on. I'm doing this with a great desire to make it happen, and I'm going to try and do everything I can to make this happen. With NGOs that are there. So I'm wondering if we're up for law enforcement. By law, some should not even be there, at least three or four organisations, by the way. But, say, we gave them a notice and we'll take them on. I don't doubt their merit, for example, but, you know, sometimes they said that even those people who were first-class veterans and like, in 1930, they said they wanted to have monuments, I don't know what, privileges. I don't know. I thank all those who have contributed greatly to the emergence of the new country, I have no doubt that also non-governmental organisations, I have no doubt that many of them too. I know some of them, too, and I know, but of course that doesn't mean that they have to be somewhere because of these credits in one place and they're sitting in some place that they've got one way or another. Now we both know the different positions of genetics of this, but to simplify it, because they were there in some lease, and the state has the right to cancel the lease relationship and try to settle it according to its thinking that it will be best – here we are – for Slovenian culture. In fact, I think I work in the entire Slovenian space for Slovenian culture. And once again, of course, I believe that there are certain circles that do not agree with this, but do not talk about the whole of Slovenia doing this. I am also supported by a whole range of people, culturers, intellectuals, how to say intellectuals and so on. Even in public institutions, I hope that even among NGOs or free artists, I think so and here I also draw this legitimacy. I am also drawing this legitimacy from space, i.e. from a government position, this National Assembly has confirmed me to this place that I represent culture and represent the interests of this coalition and, of course, the political option that I belong to. It is democratic, there is nothing wrong with it and it implements certain plans, aspects which, in my opinion, are right and do no harm to anyone, but only bring good to the entire Slovenian culture. I think we've tried to establish this dialogue, we've invited everyone to the interviews, we've informed them all, and we're asking them, of course, to leave this place. We also turned to the local congregations, looking for space, looking for space, but let them show their own initiative. For God's sake, it doesn't take one lifetime to have offices in the same room. With regard to the artistic practices that are ahead of us and which we observe and are looking forward to, or are disappointed with, them and so on, they are a whole bunch. Some are very quality, some less likely, but well, these are subjective assessments, and these artistic practices range from some traditional, classical images to modern and modern, which is also challenging, easy and provocative. Mrs Smrekar, as we are talking about, is likely to be part of this contemporary literature, pardon, contemporary art very successfully. I think it presents her very well and it's a purely personal opinion. It's one of the rare things that I think she knows she has something to say. Okay, that's less important now. But I think we're all about sticking to the laws, the legal code and all the things that come out of it. In view of this, it is also necessary to organise and operate a society. I hope that these NGOs will understand that they will try to go the other way, just as we will try to go the other way, and it would be nice if this museum district was completed as soon as possible, and I think it will be remarkable when it is finally set up and arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Colleague Natasha Sukich, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Minister, I don't know if you remember when we had the meeting on this subject, given you by Ambassador Rajić an extremely good idea which is the architect himself, and this idea is – and it would seem to me this right thing, nothing seems wrong to me, too, if there was a museum in there in part – but the building could be made so that these NGOs are still inside and in part a museum and it would be that bridge between the town of Metelko, it's called an urban square, and between the museum coaches, as you call it. For example, this is one of the ideas that could have been thought through peacefully and realized if only it had been the will. You and I both know that throwing away so many good organizations, you move out, and that it can mean destruction for a lot of them, because they don't have Excuse me, I know what it means to be under such conditions and it's in the middle of an epidemic. [[…]] Please, where are they supposed to go? Besides, it doesn't make sense that some center is created, that it's the sum of some kind of production that's boiling, whether you're going to atomize this now and everyone at their city end is going to do something and not do anything. Say, you tell me where, say, Shkuc moves out his library. Where do you want her to move out? There are hundreds and hundreds, I don't know exactly, very many books. Where do they get these books if they have to fly out? Where? Or in the basement? Should the dance eat them up? Isn't that a shame? Isn't that really a shame? Do you know how many intellectual values there are? You must know that at least as well as I do. This is where the great damage is done by the minister. Look, you're the minister who should be defending, whether you like one or not. You should be defending all these production forces in the country. Now you said there are three, four who are not culturers. Look, we're talking, there's most of the cultural and artistic organizations that deal with culture, with art or with humanistic content, so we can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	The proposer had his first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Maybe, Minister, I'll take advantage, because I'll ask you a question too, and then you can answer both of them. Did I understand you correctly? Did you say that the plans for Metelkov were made? Is that true? 'Cause this is the first time I've heard [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Metelkov's 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Metelkov's 6. Can you show us tomorrow? For we are not aware that we are already made. Is it true that the plans are made?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	I think he's an engineer. I don't know. I forgot my last name. So these plans are made at what stage, I'm not getting to know myself enough, it's definitely all drawn up for the natural science museum. I think that man did this during the time of the minister who belonged to your client, I think from 2018, already 2017. I'm thinking right now. We can show them off and deliver them, yes. This is no problem, but the problem is that what the Member State said. Now you want to show that this is one natural corps, as if there can't be ten societies in ten different places, for example, it doesn't have to be scattered that way or that there are some spaces. I think they can be found and that it is necessary to show goodwill and follow. Everyone who knows this neighborhood in Ljubljana and this area, we know that the actual configuration is already so naturally set up, that is, these former barracks, that it calls really after some closure and there are museums and so on. [[…]] You know that better than I do, it's not a problem. I would insist, I would have to look, I hope that they will go looking for new sites, and I hope that the representatives of these societies themselves are looking for this. We've been looking, too, I don't know how far, but we've been trying to find out. I think he can go to some other place, whatever society he has, for God's sake. My employees drive 120 km to work, I don't know why one of them wouldn't drive from Camp to Kentucky. I'm cariculating, of course. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word is from colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greeting again in my name. We've heard a huge, huge word in these eight hours. However, I must go back to the beginning, Minister, when you began your defense by saying that the level of dialogue of the opposition is low, that this interpretation means a grave attack on democracy. That was your quote. I hope you're making a little mistake because that sounded like a joke. Why the mission of the opposition, Mr Minister, is precisely to point out things that are not right, especially when an attack on culture and independent media has been taking place for a year. I'm not going to talk about the film here, I'm not going to talk about the NGOs, I'm not going to talk about the exchanges with incompetent people in public institutions, but I want to say something about the level of dialogue you're talking about. You said you didn't have Twitter or Facebook, maybe too bad. If you had it, I suggest or should your office chief show you some Twitter profile of some SDS MPs, that official Twitter profile. Let's say maybe some Twitter profile of some nettle or some other weed, including some trolls. Let me take a look at that. I really recommend it, and you'll see the level. I'm getting mud every day, and that's low mud and discredit, so that I don't start to tell you what your people are writing about me today, because we don't have it in the opposition. That's what you said. I don't want to be the same in my dreams or in my dreams as those Members who write this, and I don't want to be that level ever and never and nowhere, and I don't want to be the same to them, to clear this up about levels. You're also reading us empty talk, empty words without arguments. Everything we've read to you here today is also supported by arguments. The fact that you don't see it, I can only comment by saying that you're obviously living in some parallel world. And you're not the only minister, and Minister Kustec and also Minister Cigler King said the same thing. You obviously live on this government in a parallel world where we are not in opposition. I suggest you move from this to the real world, come also from the world of your trumpets to the real world. Ask the people on the street, and you'll see, or say, cut the curfew, and you'll see and feel what people are thinking and what level they're talking about. It's only so much for the introduction, because these words of yours have quite surprised me, because I know you're a very intelligent gentleman, but you're just pretending not to understand. In the LMŠ, we believe that cultural policy should not be based on the position of the Minister, but who doesn't like what culture he doesn't like, because he has to understand the needs of society, ethical standards, he has to understand that he has to conduct dialogue and he has to understand the open spaces of culture. It must also understand that it must enable the coexistence of all cultural and cultural groups of different ideological hinters and not raise just one and prevent those who bring critical thought into our social space. This is the basis that every minister must understand. I know you understand that, and I know that's not what you want. It's all science and philosophy. Actually, it's not much of a philosophy. But in order to be able to hear a critical thought in the 21st century in Slovenia, we need – what? Question for Quiscot. That is why we need an independent, non-ideological media space, which you have persistently destroyed throughout the year. And that's what we read to you in this interpretation, in one of the points of this interpolation. We tell you that you are charging with disobedient media, that you are politically recruiting with the aim of establishing control over public media, that you are discrediting press work, and that you are stepping up political pressure on independent media to the point of their breaking. And that's the point. It's very simple. Everyone who wanted to see it has long missed it. How and when did this start? Actually, it started with an April government meeting, exactly 16. 4. when the RTV bill began. The government then resolved three members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board and appointed obedient executors of the government's political will for the remainder of the mandate. Pika. In this way, the government allowed itself to be part of the supervisory board, and in fact it did not have that authority. Since this was an illegal act of authority, the Supreme Court then said that this was not the best and had issued a provisional order. And then, unfortunately for you, the old supervisors had to come back. Thus, Minister Simoniti directed his energy and time instead of the areas that actually need the assistance of the Minister of Culture, towards a more important area of culture, namely the destruction of RTV and the STA. I'll figure it out. With the new Law on RTV Slovenia, the government and, of course, Minister Simoniti would financially destroy the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, and the money collected with the RTV contribution would also share 3% with the Slovenian Press Agency, which would compensate for the funding from the budget currently stopped, as we know, and 5% would also give to other media. This has been the continuation of your accounting with the media. You've called for a five-day public debate for the media troika. Because then, I think Yuri Lepo woke up in Desus, and this case, like then, was greatly condemned by the government MP, you withdrew it and said, "Okay, then it will be 2 months, and let's think about it in the summer." What would happen to your changes? Yes, the quality of RTV works would be affected, as would the human resources weakness and the gradual financial destruction of RTV. The public service would also be further financially exhausted by the exclusion of broadcasters and connections from the RTV system. These are your interventions, which we say in the opposition are not okay and that you are destroying the media landscape with them. With intent, of course. Then you decided to destroy the STA as well. For a year we have been following this Saga around the STA, which is still, thank God, a pillar of quality and impartial reporting. How did it start there? And that's where it started with that famous tweet. Who or what? Me, who? President of the Government! That STA is a national disgrace, where it is primarily about politically motivated intimidation and discipline, restricting freedom of press work and editorial policy and attempts to interfere with the autonomy and editorial independence of the public media. There were still, you know, all those basses and all that stuff that happens on Twitter every day for more than five hours a day. The Prime Minister of the Government has five hours to spend on Twitter in very difficult epidemiological times in Slovenia, five hours a day from his working time. This man could not even believe, but yes, “so mother”, we say in Maribor. In the proposal for the amendment of the STA Law, the Minister of Culture proposed a new method of appointing supervisors, four out of five of whom would directly appoint a government, thereby giving the Supervisory Board new powers to relieve the Director prematurely. Yeah, well, what's different than interfering with independent media? Then what's the other one? What about your terrible concern for media independence? Of course not. Then what did you do? You named a gentleman named Radovan Cerjak as the fifth missing supervisor. At that time, in the opposition, and in particular in the LMŠ, we strongly opposed this. You know why? In principle, we have nothing against this gentleman, I have never seen him before in my life, nor am I interested in him. But you have begun to break down the basic postulates that are in force in this country. These are, however, that a person, if appointed to a function, must at least meet the tendering conditions to begin with. He must have some work and managerial experience. You have introduced new standards – that you do not need them. Because there is only one standard for you to be yours, to kima and to work as instructed. That's the only criterion. All other conditions, such as competences such as leadership experience, such as being expert in some field, you are not interested in this at all, because it is only one condition – that it is yours. It's over. Clearly, the lack of expertise has also proved to be that the gentleman has never actually done this before. Something even speculated about when he did that exam or education for supervisors, and I'm not going to let that happen. However, the gentleman is definitely in a conflict of interest because he is also involved with one of your media houses and also with other media that are somehow related to the SDS. And he's your lawyer. I don't even talk about not meeting these formal conditions. That the ethical criteria and level of communication, dialogue, respect for the human dignity that this gentleman shows on all his profiles, the official ones, and even on those hidden ones, I do not speak. And that's your level and your new standards. Your intentions, Mr. Minister, for the media area are devastating - the management and staffing of the media, leading to the publication of the government's favored opinion, and anything unacceptable remains silent. These are the changes that you, as Minister, have proposed. I must admit that in the LMŠ party we fear these so-called comprehensive changes that you have been hiding for so long. In fact, these changes are worse because they go to the detriment of public service because they go to the detriment of journalistic independence because they go to the detriment of editorial autonomy, and we are actually very afraid of that. Enomaus is exactly what you want and what you're pursuing. It's like Hungary. We know what the regime there did to the press agency. At first, she was taken over by the staff, so that those faithful, the right personnel adapted the content, the only thing left to the government was what was favored, and what was tamed. Then the news began to offer the house free of charge to everyone. I'm afraid that's also your goal. I'm sorry. And then what is this other than a mind? Nothing, because it is a single mind that we do not want in the 21st century in Slovenia in the LMŠ party. It's very simple. They've been fighting for a year, of course. All those calls, all the convened sessions, all the letters, all the things we asked for, what we wrote in the opposition, were zero. Nothing. It's the same effect as nothing. Approximately as in all the proposals we have put into anti-Korona laws and you have taken them into account in exactly the same way. That's what it looks like. And then paradoxically we get an invitation to cooperate every so long, because we really need to participate in Slovenia, because we have to beat the epidemic. Yes, of course we have to cooperate with someone who does not want to cooperate, which is difficult or you will explain how this works! Then it happened, thank God, that seventh anti-Korona law, which clearly stated that STA must be financed regardless of whether or not it has a contract signed. And where are we today? We can read on the STA website that today is the 25th day when they are unpaid for the public service they perform. Then the famous meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took place on 18 March 2021, where you invited Director Veselinović to resign. In fact, the paradox is that in the view of the Government of the Disturbing Director, you are prepared to destroy the media we created when we established this country. It's actually a terrible knowledge. Dear Mr. Secretary, you are silent. You're still quiet. Nothing. We don't hear anything from you. We don't hear anything from you when some Urbania, director of Ukoma, claims everything he claims when he acts arrogantly and cynically here to the Members. And you're pretty quiet. Don't do anything. That the matter is even worse, at this same meeting of the government you invite ministers to the STA police, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. Mr Minister, this is something that, as far as the LMSH party is concerned, is totally unacceptable. You're breaking your own laws. That's why we should leave, Holy Mary, not just you, the whole government! But no, you continue to tweet arrogantly and cynically, not you, because you don't have Twitter, but everyone else, and you're making a fool of the media who want to be independent, who want to be free and who want to report objectively. You're still doing this. I seriously wonder where this country's staying in the 21st century. Since you are a historian and because I already told you at the hearing that I am yours, the Turks have already read in the country, with great joy, I know that in history you know that there is an expression that we do not want in Slovenia, indeed, not because of the frustration of a gentleman, but because we cannot pay everyone in this Slovenia. And I'm going to stop here destroying STA and RTV so my colleagues can say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Let's go first to what we've heard the most about the STA, although Minister Simoniti has absolutely nothing to do with the STA, except that the STA Act is in his domain. But how STA is financed is a matter of government and a matter of another discussion. But much has been said about it, so I would like to say something about it. Why does the founder, the state, set up a public news agency and thus usurp tax assets when, say, all these same news could be obtained from a private commercial company, perhaps even less effort? Probably because it's a matter of security. The private company can also dry up, the reliability of the news flow is then questionable, so it is best that the state has its own public agency and is therefore spending tax money. Why does he allow her to do market activity? Why does the public authority, the public agency, the founder, the state or the local community permit market activity? Not to make a profit, but to reduce the share of public funds and to save on taxpayers’ funds, perhaps to build a home for the elderly or a student’s home instead of there. Therefore, market activity is also welcome in the public office and the public agency. That is why the Government needs to know about the scope and content of market activity and cannot prevent any of the Director's insidiousness. It's also not right to say it's some urban area. This is Mr Urbania, Director of the Government Communications Office, who is authorised to conclude a contract with the State. I think that the matter would be resolved immediately if Mr Veselinovich merely showed his statements, i.e. the balance and content of the Government or its authorised representative. An unfounded observation in the interpretation is that the funds are smaller, that artists, self-employed, are hungry, as Mr Koprivc said, that is not true. The self-employed received 8.7 million funds in 2018, 2019 9.14 million funds, ministers Prešiček and Poznic, and 10.2 million euros in 2020. So there were more euros. In addition, there were 162 million for the culture itself in the time of Minister Prešič, 172 million for the time of Minister Poznič, and 238 million for the time of Minister Simoniti. So 80 million more than at the start of the Sharcha government. So this is completely groundless. There is also an unwarranted evidence of violence against the Slovenian language. That's not true. The Minister respects all the content of the Slovenian language and also uses the choir language itself. If anyone is disrespectful, then the basis is the Faculty of Philosophy, where they have prepared guidelines for the official language where they are addressed, not citizens and citizens, but citizens. Of course, I'm more happy if you're addressing us with an MP, but not just - point out k, k, k. Just put your word in one, and you'll see what you get in the fourth. Fourth time, moving out of Metelkova. There's no dialogue here, you said. Don't hold it. I myself have witnessed to the Committee on Culture, where we have adopted a decision and the Minister has strongly agreed and has demonstrated his will to help find alternative places for NGOs to move from Metelkova. The minister is willing to search and search with them and I think he's doing it. I don't think the spaces behind the so-called Metelkova Celica Museum are really suitable for NGOs. Those spaces, if you walk around this area, are dirty and really scary. This is an ugly area. NGOs don't deserve to be there. I think once they've cleaned it up, something like it was in the Horn will show up, which they're also accusing the minister of. The minister has nothing to do with the Horn celebration. It was emptied by Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic and over this we applauded the Ljubljana women and the Ljubljanaians when we saw what was inside. Everything that's going to be there instead of what's been there will be much better. I hope that NGOs will find better places than the ones behind Cellica. Seduction by Mrs Sukič that the largest recipients of funds from a non-governmental organisation, such as the Office of St Stanislav, is, of course, enormous. You must know that all private schools are treated as NGOs. And what you see is teachers' salaries. He pays teachers who teach our students and students. That's why it's a methodology. And that's one of the deceptions. I'm looking forward to seeing our minister again, Minister Simoniti, for he's proven to be operational. I still remember the well-renewed Opera, and I hope that there will actually be a re-establishment of the Drama. I was a longtime subscriber in Drama, I bought this subscription, now I can't because Drama is literally impossible to sit there, his neck hurts, his cross hurts, so I don't even talk about dirty walls. However, the 2013-2014 crisis was defeated and something could be done in Drama from 2015 onwards, but it is not. That's a lot of negligence. In addition, I find that it is actually a cultural struggle. The historical memory dates back to 2012, when the exact same discussion took place over Žigo Turk, the then minister, as Mr Möderndorfer had already proposed to bring this together, was united and went back to the individual ministries. The Turk brand was Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. At a time when they took all the money from all the ministries and all the areas, the Turk culture was given money. Nevertheless, he was squandered and dirty, as is now the case with Minister Simoniti. It's simple, if you ask me, for a cultural struggle. For a cultural struggle that happens all the time. The cultural struggle that Mr. former communist has already foretold is now in the dead, God give him peace and peace, Mr. Dolanc, the great mushroom who said: "For the record, we are Communists in power. If it weren't for us, there'd be someone else. But because of course it will not be, we will always remain in power." And the word that cowardly puts in Mrs Dijak Mirnik's mouth is important that he is yours, they hold exactly the heirs of the Communist Party. I hope there's as few of them here as possible. Minister, you've responded to all the reports. You answered in your response. Your answer is proof that you not only use well, but you use not only Slovenian but also logic and arguments. I hope your answer will ever be published in a book we'll all be buying, and I'm sure it will be the bestseller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Interpellation is a legitimate tool for the opposition. Today, however, this interpretation is the third in a series of interpretations, nothing more than a waste of time. I've said it many times. In a few days, in a week of three interpretations, 18 hours of wasted time today, rather than having anything else to do in this temple of democracy. Today we are wasting and stealing time on things that would be more important to solve. I simply understand what this is about, I understand the opposition must feed its electorate because they failed with an unconstructive hopelessness to deny this government that you are investing in interpretation. In the opposition, you are also engaged in citing press conferences on the interpretation of the Minister of Culture, but there is also no listening. There's only one TV house, and that's the TV you've been spitting out the most in the opposition, and it's not even a medium, according to you. That's why we have so long an interpolation today, just so that today and tomorrow in this temple of democracy will rumble for more than 18 hours together. What will citizens have to do with it, what cultural people will have to do with it, I wonder. I'm sure they'll have more than what I'm about to say. They report to the Minister of Culture that he has been trampling on a culture that is already on his knees, but financial injections into culture are simply in the interests of the minister. The Ministry managed to provide a record budget for culture in the history of Slovenia in 2021. It is a quarter larger than the budget planned by the previous government in 2021. Despite the pandemic, the budget rose by 46 million to 237 million, a record in the history of a single country. Cultural stakeholders have additionally exhausted more than €68.5 million from the efforts of the Ministry of Culture in 2020. In 2020, 83% more cohesion funds were paid than in 2019. As part of the recovery and resilience plan, additional European grants of €87 million are planned for culture. Extensive negotiations are under way for a new cohesion financial perspective 2021-2027 to strengthen the cultural sector. Programme changes and deadlines for the implementation of planned projects in 2020 have been made possible, including for the completion of operations from cohesion funds. Investments in public, cultural infrastructure have increased by 20.5 million euros. For one million euro, funds for monuments owned by municipalities and other legal and natural persons have increased. One million Euros have increased the funds for publishing, one million Euros have increased the funds for film activity, and 1.9 million Euros have increased the resources for creativity, including theatre, music, visual and intermedia art. For €1.4 million, funds for self-employed persons have increased, including the payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons, work grants to self-employed persons and sick persons. Funding for the purchase of library material has increased by half a million euros. In budgets 2021 and 2022, the Minister succeeded in implementing the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes, which will provide an additional €22.25 million to the cultural sector in those years. I know that culturers will have much more than the record budget for 2021 and for 2022, negotiated by Dr Vasko Simoniti. If Minister Dejan Prešiček negotiated EUR 162 million, Minister Zoran Poznit 172.8 million, the current minister negotiated EUR 237,9 million. It is said that in the government of Marjana Sarca, 75.9 million euro has been allocated for culture. It is said that the government of Marjana Sharca is an expert in less money for culture, more interpretations. In the opposition, you're just competing to see who's going to put up more interpretations. The LMŠ party is only a good year and you have already submitted three interpretations as carriers. You have participated in two more, and above all in the proposal of a constructive non-confidential, and now they are announcing a constitutional indictment against the Prime Minister. Given the time in politics, LMŠ is becoming the most aggressive political party in Slovenian democratic history. Five interventions made in the first year of the government are an equalisation of the 2013-2014 record when the government was led by Alenka Bratušek. However, if we add to this the proposal of a constructive non-trust and now the constitutional accusations of the Prime Minister are announced, the current left opposition will be at the top. Apparently, the opposition is embarrassed because it invests interpolation just on the current tape, whether they are justified or not. As more and more interpretations are presented, all irregularities by the opposition become counterproductive, they somehow lose meaning. And that's bad for all the initiators of interpretation. I'm sure the next interpolation will be a perfect kick in the dark. Instead of interpolation, the opposition is increasingly sinking into the mud, its incompetence is becoming increasingly evident. It's getting more and more like Tanya Fajon. She talks and talks and never says anything. And it's similar to interpolation. In a way, I'm not a minister's lawyer, I'm aware of who's doing the same thing, but I'd like to introduce the other side, not everything is what it looks like at first sight. In the past, there have also been problems faced by culturers and creators. You probably all know the film director Mitj Okorn, who was known for his firstborn. Here and there, an extremely successful romantic comedy, or Polish production, wrote to Sveti Nikolai, who said in an interview with Dnevnik: “I thank all those who did not give me money, especially Majdi Shirca, then a cultural minister.” He added that there is no money left in Slovenia, and nothing ever changes in Slovenia. However, today's inter-interpreted minister has provided 75 million euros more money for culture. I'm sure I'd appreciate it here, but I'd like to point out another matter with which we don't share the same opinion with the minister. I appeal to the appropriate candidates who have something to show in their work so far, that these people also have the opportunity to continue their work and that they are also supported here. I can't help but talk about former director of the JSKD Mark Repnik, who has worked to prove that his culture is near. Culture is common to all of us, culture is not left or right, culture is ours. So it would have been a time to look at what we can do together for culture. And on the JSKD, Marko Repnik must have been the best choice. I'm sure of that. As a former director, one of his greatest achievements is the acquisition of the world's largest singing festival in Ljubljana in July 2021 and will be the largest cultural event in Slovenia alone. In addition, I do well to evaluate his work on the staffing and substantive renovation of the JSKD. Here's a week of amateur culture, a cultural school, and I could still list it. During the four years of the directorship, he obviously made a good impression, as he received the full support of the supervisory board, most of the employees of other institutions, including the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, at the first entry in autumn. But he did not receive the support of Minister Vasko Simoniti. It's too bad it came this far in some way. I certainly support the minister with regard to Metelkova 6, where the construction of the natural science museum is planned. However, it would be good to consider how to make the money allocated to Metelk 6 as rationally as possible. I think there's been too much money in the last few years. The fact is, in the last thirteen years, NGOs on this title, on Metelkova 6, have spent as much as €43.3 million, while in the last ten years, from 2009 to 2019, we have significantly less earmarked for nursing homes, renovations and adaptations and for the construction of student homes. I am sure that we should change here, in fact, it is high time that taxpayers have a decisive impact on the allocation of budgetary money to various NGOs. In New Slovenia, we advocate a solution to strongly raise the percentage of income that can be earmarked for the operation of NGOs and that most of the calls for proposals be lifted. Most of the invitations to tender should be abolished. People and citizens should set up their own programmes and funding for NGOs. I am interested in, or I have a question of, how do you view this, Minister of Respect, that the number of self-employed people in culture is rising dramatically. In 2016, a thousand 825 people were self-employed with paid contributions, and last year, 2 thousand 405 people had the right to receive paid contributions. This is about a million euros of our money a month for cultural contributions. The question is whether all top-notch cultures, what are the conditions for obtaining privileges and why self-employed people cannot also apply to the matter in, say, other industries. I believe that this status should be reserved for top-notch culturers. This, in my view, is also in the interest of all cultures. If everyone gets this status, then it's easy to devalue. I am aware that the Ministry of Culture cannot be any social service for the drasticly growing number of self-employed people in culture either, because the country is paying them contributions due to exceptional achievements. These matters should be regulated in accordance with the purpose for which they have also been established. I cannot support the culture where the Slovenian flag is cut with scissors, where a woman breast-feeds a dog. It's not a culture for me. As a Slovenian, I am deeply offended by this; if it is a culture, we have lost everything in this country. But I support a loving culture, a wonderful singing of domestic singing choirs, orchestras, cultural heritage, everything that is our home. I support a culture that strengthens Slovenian national consciousness, pride in being Slovenians. After all, culture and our Slovenian language are key to our own country today. Under the previous ministers, unfortunately there was too much listening for Metelkova 6 so, dear Minister, I ask you to turn this trend and listen to the culture that comes into every family, the culture that comes into every Slovenian village. It is true, however, that since Simonity has been in culture, at least the national celebration at the cultural festival has been cultural, national and interconnected, artistic in that genuine meaning of the word. And that's it. Let's preserve Slovenian culture! Who's gonna do it if we don't, Slovenians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that I have not been fully understood when I have justified the reasons for the interpretation, so I would like to explain to Mr Rebersk once again. For you keep repeating, especially your Christian Democrats, that interpretations are a waste of time and I don't know what else you're explaining. I must remind you that this is the main task of the opposition to point out things. You're also telling us that we're working too hard because now you have to sit here for so long. Without the destruction of the media and the destruction of culture in this case, of course they would not have put up for interpretation. Dear Mr Reberšek, I suggest you. If you're not here to sit and listen to this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, you have nothing to suggest. It's a replica. That's not a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	I'm explaining to him what he didn't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	I have a replica. He didn't understand the arguments I was talking about myself. I therefore suggest that he simply resigns and that he no longer has to listen to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	Look, colleagues and colleagues, please stick to the rules that determine what a replica is. I'll read them to you. I'm gonna take the time to do this because I think we're gonna forget it every once in a while. So every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. So please, stick to this rule in the replica, don't use it to stop by, 'cause someone seemed to have to intervene somewhere else. The motioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But I will, because I have been granted this as a representative of the proposer, I have repeated what my colleague said. Anyone who thinks we're wasting our time has every right to sign out or not vote or not come. Speaking of wasting time, we're talking about taking democracy. Your Honor! Talking about large small amounts of money in both culture and everyone in these times is, of course, paradoxical, unspeakable to the same situation as it is in the field. If we divide culture into three segments, namely institutional culture, NGOs, these are NGOs, and self-employed, at least two thirds are very affected at this time. And at a time like you say, a record budget in the field of culture. Isn't that an anomaly or a paradox? If you say you have the most money in the history of culture, then where is this money that doesn't reach people? Half an hour ago, there were hundreds of present-day culturers who had been banished by the police because they had come to protest. And that at a time when people are standing in a colony to be vaccinated, while expressing their views still cannot be expressed, even though the Minister of the Interior has said that we can do this in the range of ten individuals. So, cultural silence with a full little. That's what we're talking about. No matter what your interpretations of what art is or what it is, we, you, the Minister, are not in the role of judging what is good art and what is not. That's art. The art of expression is the art of free expression. The sooner we understand whether you're conservatives, whether you're populists, or you're social-democrats, the easier we'll live with that. This is freedom, my dears. That's freedom of expression. In this case, it's culture, and we're not in the role of saying, I like music, one or the other, and we're not going to ban it, and we're not going to finance it. Just like we're not in the role of us or the minister, we're going to take any self-employed status because we don't like it personally. We're not in this role. This is a legal state and we have to play, regardless of our differences that are, according to the rules. The sooner we understand this, the sooner we will understand what democracy really is and what parliamentaryism is. Even if you don't want to, you have the free will to go, check out, and go if you don't think you have a connection. We're doing our job. This is the only field where we can express the interests of individuals who are currently very disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Violet Tomić's as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	I have to respond to some of my colleagues' performance in front of me, especially my colleague Rebecca, who incompetently judges the freedom of artistic expression and is then disgusted with some of the sacraments that are affecting him. But maybe that's the purpose of provoking the art, you know, Comrade Reberšek. Look, and Minister Simoniti himself, for which his colleague Luke praised him earlier, understood the artistic action correctly, for at Siol, 26. 9. Let me read to you what Mr Simoniti has said. “In the past we have also seen artistic things, such as breast-feeding of a dog or cutting of the Slovenian flag. It's just about breast-feeding a dog, but you have to look at all of that artist's opus. People go too far to the first ball. They see this and are appalled, but the lady has received an important award abroad, which means that she has been recognized by the wider European community. Lactating a dog can illustrate a kind of rebellion and a loss of faith in man to set the world straight. It's an old mythical story. After all, what is born of such a relationship? A werewolf. But that's not a solution either. It is just a expression of despair over the reality that is fueling some ecological economic disaster and insensitiveness. If we looked at it in the timeline, you wouldn't find this thing so terrible. It is true that the flags are not cut, but the pregnant artist put them on her belly. She may have protested that there is no perspective in Slovenia. We know that thousands of people move out every year. I think we are going too far into the express moves of artistic practice." In short, only the shoes belong to the hooves, young Mr Reberšek. Why do you dare so, and here I congratulate Mr. Simoniti, you can see that he understands the symbolism of art. [[…]] [[background advertising]] Can you let me do the talking?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Colleague Violeta Tomić, please take a look at some respect for your colleague too, because it's okay to criticize yourself, but as you say, only shoes belong to the hooves. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	Please, you're stealing my minute. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	Each Member and Member shall have the right to debate, so that I propose that you, with arguments, get on with the other and with arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	Listen, President, I'm talking about art, not what the Member can discuss here. But being an art critic and here talking about what art is and what isn't, you know, that's very questionable. Now we're talking about art and we're interpreting the Minister of Culture. Ambassador Shriner, you will also allow me, for she spoke of Stannet Dolanc, the leper. And I'm going to say, yes, when I was walking out of the theater in the '80s, the early '90s, there was an interesting man, his name was Ivan Kramberger. He stood by the monument in Prešeren Square and said, "My beloved Slovenes, you will be great poor, for the communists will hold to power." And do not be afraid of those communists who will remain the same, fear those who will run quickly to the churches and turn into severe anti-communists. So I agree with Skrinjarov that if we were to mirror all the old communists who are holding onto it, we know which party president is the only one who has graduated from the Kumrov School, we wouldn't have these problems today. It is also unacceptable that Mrs Škrynjarova says that the premises on the Metelkov are dirty and scary. Has she ever been there before, I'm asking you. In these rooms, a superb Slovenian art is created, which is known throughout the world. And we are faced with the embarrassment of it. Minister Simoniti has disgraced us in international circles as well. Once again, you recklessly and recklessly abused three other internationally recognized prominent individuals, the responsible editor of the Russian magazine Moscow Art Magazine Viktor Misian, then the professor at the College of Arts and Science of New York University of Boris Groys and the director and president of the Media Centre of Professor Peter Weibla. We have seen three letters of indignation written to Minister Simoniti not to abuse their names for his political accounting. These previously mentioned gentlemen advocate high standards of recruitment in the artistic field. I'm also still wondering why, Minister, you and Prime Minister don't go to Brussels 26. 3. as you yourself have proposed to explain the freedom of the media. Sad to say, on the one hand, you withdraw internationally recognized experts and place your analphabetes on the other. If I go back to the symbolism of art, you also understood the symbolism of installation before the Ministry of Culture, which was to say how the death of culture is happening and how culture under your leadership is bleeding. However, it was necessary to reverse, abuse and, of course, manipulate. Let me also take this moment to look at this public publication that was on the side of the Ministry of Culture. So you abuse the Ministry of Culture for your daily political accounting with your political opponents. “The deep state draws threads so that nothing changes in the direction of greater democracy and prosperity for all.” Who's the deep country? We? Me? No, no, no. “The opposition, which is largely dependent on it, but apart from the desire to regain power, offers nothing. In an ideally empty world, the opposition looks back and imposes some patterns of social regulation that promote violence and political madness. Therefore, without anyone having problems with it, there may be cyclists on cycling who call for killings while the presence of black-and-sharp gangs.” This is an example of an enemy speech, Minister Simoniti, non plus ultra. And what happens? Your government, government, yellow jackets have done – what? They burned the book Svetlana Makarovich Chuk on a stick. Did you condemn this act? This is the same as Berlin in 1933. You burn books and you call it okay. Shut up. But silence is attachment, Minister. Speaking of what is happening at Metelkova and the Museum of Independence, I hope you will understand the decades of democratisation of Slovenia in the 1980s, because it is the NSK that you are now throwing out, and Irwin with a poster affair, if you remember this, in short, Neue Slowenische Kunst, whose part I was also part of in the Sister Scipion Nasice Theatre. When we staged the show of the Cross under Triglav, this entire Parliament came to see if we could be banned. These were acts of democratisation. At that time, most of the members of the SDS were still paying party membership until the Communist Party itself withered. We know our people are feeding our evidence. And as Kramberger said: What John learns is what John knows. That's what he cares about. He didn't say what Milancek learned or anyone else, Milan knows. He said what Janek learned, John knows. Think about it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Comrade Reberšek, a replica. Please stick to Article 70.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	I guess I was misunderstood, but I hope I can speak because Ambassador Tomic says only artists can speak here. I can't support a culture where scissors cut the Slovenian flag where a woman breast-feeds a dog. This is not a culture for me, and I am when a Slovenian is deeply offended. If it's a culture, we've lost everything in this country. I can't influence what artists do, they can do what they want until such art is on me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be discussing much. Only that, Madam Member, said that we had sent three letters and insulted known critics and curators and so on. We didn't hurt them, we didn't hurt them. The letters we received from three people from different parts of the world were actually sent from Ljubljana, the phrases were literally almost the same inside and the little pretzels were and they saw where it came from. Those gentlemen signed it with good intentions and kindness, but they didn't get any deeper into it. We have written back to these gentlemen, we have very clearly explained things to them, and at the same time we have told them clearly enough that they are beyond their competence. These same gentlemen, you must know that abroad these are serious matters. They think we're a banana republic and they dare to do that. You're such a curator and curator in America or New York, you wouldn't dare write a gallery in some other federal American country or in the same state that they should do something different with a director, because in two minutes he wouldn't be anywhere else. They allowed it with an insulting subtonia that we are a banana republic. But we wrote them or those who were, I know which, but they wrote it to them to send a letter of support. With this, we have acknowledged that we are one provincial small country looking for such support outside. Outside, they know that these are pretty serious things, and they're practically not hoping to do that. To write such a curator in Germany or in France, listen, kindly please, or in England, he will never appear there again. Although these people are recognized people, this has to be acknowledged, with one fine biography and bibliography and also with their knowledge, but they have allowed it from a position, as I would say, of a multi-value level, which is extremely offensive. So, please! They got the answer that comes to them, and it's also right that we wrote it to them. They didn't come forward later. We also informed their bosses, by the way, the rectors and so on. I'm not gonna talk about these flags anymore, these breasts, and so on. We have different views, I have explained this several times already today, and the Member can have his opinion and I will not challenge him. And the others don't. And why not? Let him say it, because that's right. And that's right. He didn't stop or disturb or say anything either. Why not? I said my thing. But it is true, see, the flags of these things, because we have already said, are not done in other countries where they are very quickly even punished. In America you had an example when the installation was set up, nice, now if I went a little over, there was an American flag on the ground, that you came up with a picture and you had to follow the flag. It was such a trick. And they were punished immediately. That's right, but let's just leave it. Okay, I also know because they have all sorts, but it was in the public space in a way that would say where the sanctity of space gives its weight and there you can't abuse such symbols. And with regard to the black men and those idiots, sorry, those people in the front, that's what I would say, really with all the contempt for them, some form of some organized group that I call a gang that challenged the cops, these are so-called Antifas, for example, who think they're going to decide on the road whether I'm a Democrat or not. You know, with all due respect and all due respect, they need to be removed if they're violent. And they were, they challenged, and they're black collars. Logically, it's actually fascists, that's what you need to know. These are the fascists who pronounce themselves, this is the paradox of the reverse system. These are third-rate people, with low intelligence and violence, and they're pumped on a string, so puppets in the hands of those you take back. It's known in history and everywhere, well, it's not that big a deal. However, it is necessary to say what they are doing and also to name them by their real name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Please, let us refrain from any qualifications and disqualifications and describe ourselves as culturally as possible. My colleague Violeta Tomić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	So that I don't abuse the replica, I'm applying on behalf of the proposer. Now, once again, Minister Simoniti has demonstrated his entire diason of hate speech and one, I'll say, quite a primitive discourse. Anti-fascists only bother fascists. Pika. But you didn't say anything about the yellow vests that are government-prone and that light up the book of Svetlana Makarovič's greatest youth writer. Of course you don't care. But you said that great world experts treat us like banana republics. Sorry, we've been very respected so far, since you've been ministering, and you're making a banana republic out of Slovenia with your political and human resources moves. You have also changed the creation act of the National Museum of Slovenia so that anyone can now be a director with a scientific master's degree or doctorate, not necessarily from one of the professions represented by the museum. The Ministry was appointed director of the National Museum of Slovenia, for example, Paul Czar, a well-known collector who is very fond of painting in fascist uniforms and leather coats. Despite the fact that the ethical code of the international museum world – international, and then it is no wonder that international experts write to you – suggests that collectors should not be guided or employed in the museum because of the high risk of conflicts of interest. Did the Ministry not find suitable experts who could do this job better than one layman who is also at the crossroads of interest? Serial changes in the management of public institutions in culture, set up by political personnel, who are mostly without relevant professional and managerial references and any competences – this and only this, Minister Simoniti, makes us a banana republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several of these were opened by the Member of Parliament. I hope I remember everything and forget some. About burning books. Look, clearly, books don't burn, even though it's more symbolic. If this happens on a symbolic level, it is a mistake, clearly, and it is not done. That's understandable. Otherwise, the books are burning massively right now. They take them to the paper store every day. But we know, in what cases this was symbolically lit, from Gutenberg's invention of the press, when books become mass and we get indexes of ignition and so on, all the way to the latest times, if you want, especially in the previous system, they were great book starters and they were very good and well-trained. Now, however, there are individual cases that are of value if they are at a symbolic level, of course, I have no objection at all. However, with regard to Paul the Emperor, I would warn you. I'm not talking about the other directors. Look, I've already told you, I'll probably have to do it three more times. But Mr. Paule Car, by the way, is quite an expert, an economist, but also a doctor of historical knowledge. He's a collector, as you said, at the same time he wrote an extremely successful book, internationally very well established, and I'm telling you this as a historian, who something about it, I hope to say, at least I know. But okay, I'm not gonna brag, it's stupid, right? But, however, Mr Pavel Car wrote an extremely quality book observed abroad, let's say I'm more modest, and he's an extremely good-quality acquaintance of a particular area. I appointed him director of the National Museum, and I must say that the first impressions, responses, very quality and excellent. And I'm glad I named him. I think she's the right person and she has all the qualifications for it. So, the frame set up and so on. Okay, I don't love that anymore. Given that Mr Paule Car, you said, liked to dress in German uniforms and the like, you know that in history, from the Middle Ages forward or from Roman times, they have so-called presentations, games and so on, dress up in different costumes and stage certain military sequences. That is what Paul the Emperor does. We'd get it in five photos. Look, you're the man who did the theater, like, or whatever. One of the famous players who died a while ago was Demeter Bitenc, who played mostly partisan films by the Germans themselves. And he was great. And, see, a thousand of his photos would have been taken, and if you wanted to discredit him in the sense that you're trying to Mr. Emperor, you would have presented here 12 thousand 700 pictures of Mr. Demetri Bitenc in the SS uniform and so on. Not to mix it up, let's be honest and look at it with some distance and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague of Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	I have to replicate. Minister, let's not mix this up. Let's be decent. My colleague Demeter Bitenc played German paying officers. It was his profession because he was an actor. One was played by partisans, and one was played by witches or good mothers. Sir, mentioned earlier, he dresses out of his pleasures and affinities in his uniform. It's a big difference, sir! Given that you are a historian, you spit on your own profession because you employ people who do not have competence and when they graduated, although you still like his work and book, there can be no reason to change the tender conditions and put such a person at the top, in the leadership of an institution. Our colleague Jelinčič is also very familiar with art. Maybe you can think of some kind of humane move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Bojana Muršič has the word, then Janez Moškrič, Tina Heferle, Nick Prebil. So much so I can give you a little heads-up. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister! First of all, I'd like to congratulate you sincerely on your venerable anniversary. But I'm going to say this: It's a sad fact that for your venerable Jubilee you've received such a gift as we have today, an interpolation. But unfortunately, I have to say that you've been writing it yourself since the day of this function, and it's really time for you to give up this function, and at your age, at your age of 70, leave your job, enjoy your retirement, and let those who are younger understand that culture is our future. Why I'm saying that, because you can actually wave with your hands, however you want, but actually it is. The culturers are disappointed with you because this government has no vision under your leadership, and you, the distinguished minister, have been carrying out destructive maneuvers, destructive cultures and its creators and creators since the beginning of this function. You should be the greatest protector of culture and cultural creators in these extremely difficult times. But we have come to this point that the work and existence of the culturers depend on the will of you, the respected minister, the state bureaucratism and also the cliental ideology. But it is not just the culturers who are disappointed, and we are also the Members, who, at your work, demand that you provide us with information and explanations at the meetings of your mother's working body and also in the context of the questions sent. And you, Mr. Secretary, are losing your temper. You've even gone this far eight. 12. 2020, when you said you were going home. I quote your statement: "I will no longer listen, do not love me anymore, I am here at six o'clock in the morning at work, bye." But today, Mr. Secretary, I must congratulate you, you've been with us for over nine hours, you're listening to our arguments, and, yes, here are truly sincere congratulations. Today I will focus on the public service of RTV Slovenia. Public television is one of the key pillars of democratic regulation in developed countries. It's a test of the development of democracy as such at all. But under this government, that no longer applies. We have known attempts at RTV for a number of years, even when you were not in power. But it all started back in 2005, when regulatory changes reached RTV when political interference was legalised in its operation, at which time both domestic and foreign media professionals were alerted and spoke out about the recipe for disaster. That was when the difficult period of RTV Slovenia began, which was marked by more and less-called political recruitment in programme and supervisory institutions. Who was in power then? SDS. What you failed to destroy in those days, you continue today. What worries me in particular is the personal attacks on individual journalists and journalists who are getting worse. And I'm not talking about you here. An extremely insulting rhetoric with the words of a dictionary, an unworthy civilization. And then, Minister, you didn't stand up to these individuals. What's more, you were insulting to journalists and journalists yourself. And what's happening to us? That individuals operating in the media are forced to self-censorship. But the employees of Radiotelevision Slovenia must be people who are committed to standards, ethics, and also to the public. Their task must be the critical transmission of messages from this or that political party, which all of us, including the politicians, would like. And it is the Ministry of Culture that proposes amendments to the three laws, the Media Act, the STA Act and also the RTV Act, with which the government would like to exclude from the institution an organisational unit Broadcasters and Relations within six months of the introduction of the Law. How much will RTV Slovenia be deprived of? It's up to 7.6 million euros. Is that normal? However, an even more drastic intervention is envisaged to divide part of the RTV contribution among other media. 3% would be earmarked for the financing of the public service of the STA, which, of course, is currently not financed, 5% for the achievement of public interest in the field of media. How much RTV would you be deprived of again? Again for €6.7 million. So, Mr. Secretary, this is a planned destruction of public RTV Slovenia. The government, with a proposal that is fortunately yet, thank God, a government proposal, is threatening the functioning of the largest public institution in the field of culture. Public RTV Slovenia is not only an information policy programme, which includes a circus of 25% of production. Public RTV are three national and two regional TV programs, three radio programmes and the world-renowned symphonies of RTV Slovenia as well as Big band RTV Slovenia. The question is where the Slovenian Popovka and other popular festivals and the treasure of Slovenian composers in the archives of RTV Slovenia would be without our orchestras. RTV provides quality and credible content for a diverse audience, including targeted groups such as national minorities, ethical communities, people with different forms of disability and others, with objective and credible quality and timely possession of current information content. It is through a cultural and artistic programme that promotes Slovenian culture, promotes cultural creativity and freedom of artistic creation. It also educates, advises and develops language culture and provides a variety of programs for children and adolescents alike. I think we both agree here. And there's more to it? We need public RTV Slovenia. I will touch only briefly not to name Mr Repnik's only registered candidate as Director of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities. The candidates were all evaluated as an excellent candidate who could ensure continued success during the next difficult period of operation of the Public Fund for Fans' Cultural Activities. It was recognized by the balanced management and motivation of employees in order to successfully cooperate with both domestic and international experts with the provision of professional and organisational support, to promote cultural creativity for all cultural activities in Slovenia and also in place. But no! This candidate is not suitable for the management of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, although he also enjoyed a lot of support from New Slovenia. In the Government, you have decided that you want the Supervisory Board to have a greater choice of candidates, but this question is whether this is even necessary. Not according to my own judgment, of course not. Dear Minister of Culture! In this place during the second term, black clouds gathered and it is time for you to really leave this city and enjoy the fruit of your life at your age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable all present, distinguished minister! We live at a time when the quality of Members is assessed by the number of words spoken at the plenary session of the National Assembly, we are taught about vaccines by economists, merchants, while we are taught about culture by highly educated individuals, but currently without any artistic inspiration. However, if they are inspired, they insult the national, more specifically the Gornja costume, which I am pleased to wear and attend cultural events, or the Ministry of Culture’s fronts and create horrendous installations. But I'm not going to make a point here because I would do a terrible injustice to culture and to the Minister of Culture. So I continue with the sentence, long ago spoken and written: By their works you will know them. Well, now you understand me, every Slovenian and probably most Members. If we want to make today a cultural debate, then it would be right to talk about the importance of culture for the country, about the Ministry of Culture and, finally, about the importance of the Minister of Culture as responsible for this part of the state administration. When we talk about human rights and social rights, of course, the most important element is each individual, a citizen – from beginning to decent burial. But when we talk about culture and all kinds of art, there's product, work, if you want, creation. For this creation, either an individual or an entire team can stand. Is there not something similar in the economic sector? You have to prove with products, with references, with ideas, with projects. Is it really such a wrong thinking “by their works you will get to know them”? Here I run in line with the position of the esteemed artist, the current MPs and the president of the Committee on Culture that I do not understand any high art. Where the cutting of flags and the breast-feeding of a dog is an art, I will never understand. No one's gonna convince me it's art. It could be a protest. But it was too much to say. The country is responsible and must, with all its strong and resources, take care to preserve the culture of our ancestors, promote the emergence and development of culture in general. To preserve our heritage, it is probably necessary to have trained officials, contractors and an appropriate level of resources. Well, that's where your criticism and your eyewitnesses fall. Slovenia has a suitable institution and expertise and, under the leadership of this government and minister, much higher funding is provided this year than in the past. What institutions do we know about the development and promotion of all kinds? The Institute of Self-Employed in Culture, a major acquisition of modern, democratic, modern and high social society, has been mentioned several times today and in interpretation. What has happened to this institute in the last year? It is clear that the number increased from 2 000 789 to 3 000 46, with only a thousand 803 in 2015. Is all that a country can do just an institute of self-employed in culture? Only this institution would deny the development and creativity of an individual. I am sure of this, and I can illustrate it with a small espous institute that strives to be a non-taxable pledge. He is unmotivated for development or inclined to violate legislation, which was clearly demonstrated in the case of Zlatko when he was looking for circuits through society. However, since he was under certain protection, no one linked these two facts together so that the number would double. The minister would probably also experience interpretation in non-ronical times, as cultural values are also being broken on the European floor. We have a European Commissioner to promote a European way of life that European left-wings would like to end, and our KULs wonder what a European way of life is. You can also check this in the meeting magnetogram. The first reading is linked to the time of the crown. The numbers say different. In the case of KULs, the State intervened in the field of cultural workers, adopted basic income and any other compensation that was measured in millions. Journalists were also entitled to allowances, only on RTV 2 million 123 thousand and 103 euros until March. Metelkova 6. Who's been posted? None. Here we draw the most beautiful parallel to the Horn, only that it is an institution that draws millions of dollars from this ministry, which is run by Minister Vasko Simoniti. Have you looked at the premises of an orderly plateau of cultural institutions? Described and demolished, inscriptions on the facades of newly renovated new buildings and could also be listed. There is plenty of room in the capital, and they are also coming, for all those who, under the umbrella of the non-governmental sector, are culturally striving for human rights and the awareness of society. But certainly not in the way of usurpation and degradation. However, as no official can say that he is not dependent on the state if he receives a salary directly from the budget for his work, it is difficult to say that he is a non-governmental person if he receives all his resources from the state budget. The Minister shall demonstrate the payment of the contributions of self-employed persons with all evidence, and the entry/exclusion shall be the standard administrative procedure, and copies and entries shall be made each year. The Minister would violate the law and the Constitution if he did not call on all actors to respect legislation in this area. The visions of dialogue. Should a minister really be a figure governed by individuals who have earned privileges, and should he dance as they play? Absolutely not. The experience of the professional work, the leadership of the minister and not least of the years, you will also receive here my congratulations on the anniversary of life, Minister, Osti Jarej!, gives the Minister the power to look beyond the already established and sometimes deranged goals. 7. Article 7 of the Constitution is not only paragraph 1 but also another which speaks of equality of religious communities and the importance for society. This House has been said several times before, but more debates should be held. What is confession to the infidel? A confidential conversation that often breaks down stress and relieves stress. Don't you call this psychotherapist aid? What's the cost of an hour? There's up to 70 euros. Don't be mistaken. As a Christian, it means much more to me, and I have never had to pay. But I like to support the priests so they can do their job. Today it was also heard that we were comparing the church with the theater. You can't compare that. The priest performs a mass, whether or not in the church, but perhaps it is difficult for her colleague Violet to imagine a certain theatre performance taking into account 30 square metres per participant, since then even in the largest halls there would be some people who would not be covered by the purchase of tickets. All interpretations and references to extraordinary meetings are subject to a beautiful Slovenian proverb Before the truth wears shoes, a lie passes halfway across the world. I wholeheartedly support the efforts of this government and this minister to tell a lie really hurts, but on the long run it heals, because lies have no future and the truth frees. Culture is born in an individual and also ends in an individual. It was also said that time was money. Look at what a minister is other than the manager of a company, we have to be here because we're at work, but the minister's watch should be respected and very valuable. 17, 18 hours is also one amount, you should run an institution, face problems, and here you have to defend your actions. Just one more sentence. That people miss culture, it was said. Culture can't be missing, cultural events can be missing. They're libraries, they're books, they're art products, so people use what they can at a given time. But artists, I hope that some of them can also create and take advantage of this time of epidemics in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	Thank you, President for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Dear Mr. Secretary! From the beginning of your introductory debate, as well as colleagues Irgle, it was a desire to make this debate more professional and not so ideological today. And I'll fit in with that. I'll be purely and only professionally when I've given you all the clues you're about to make. I'll start with your opening remarks when you talk about the abuse of the democratic institute, the interpolation. And I'll quote you. You said: "Interpellation should be a serious political act which the opposition serves in an exceptional situation when there are major violations of the Constitution and laws. The proposed text and the act itself from this time's interpolation is a grave attack on the institution of parliamentary democracy. Without a doubt, this interpolation has reached the lowest threshold necessary so far for the submission of interpolation.” Mr. Secretary, I'd like to correct you immediately in your mistake. So that you do not say that I speak only from the place of the Member, I will support my words with an expert article or with an expert in law who has already repeatedly taken a position on interpretations and says: “The minister’s political responsibility is a special form of responsibility that can be exercised individually or in connection with legal, moral and other forms of responsibility.” And if I continue to quote the very important paragraph of this section, "in a democratic society, the political responsibility of the minister is crucial, in particular, to the following factors: the nature and gravity of the act or event, the prevailing social morality, the legal order and the degree of political culture" and so on, that I do not read everything to you. So, Mr Minister, it is not necessarily necessary for you to be in direct violation of the Constitution or of the law to determine the political responsibility for which you are sitting here today. I hope you know that. Moreover, in policy it is considered that just identifying political responsibility is enough for one act that would be so harmful that it would require political responsibility. However, if this action is backed up by, I don't know, immorally or by illegal activity, yes, then this argument and the reason behind political responsibility is even stronger. In my opinion, you have enough of these past actions to justify this political responsibility that we are talking about today. And I will focus, given that my predecessors have already discussed all your other actions very widely, I will focus only on one act that is very unprofessional, unethical and even illegal. I am talking about the political withdrawal of the status of self-employed in culture. If I follow these individual lines, what was unethical here. Yes, actually, why you started this process of depriving yourself of the status of self-employed in culture against Mr. Zlatko. If we all remember the event, your activity in this regard has been encouraged by the situation that Mr Zlatko and Mr Krek had. If any political vendetta is responsible for this, then I don't know what's more than unethical if we're looking at you as minister, as an official. What's so unprofessional here? Yes, you've been handling all the rules, you've issued a quasi decision that wasn't at all, and I'll explain later why it wasn't a decision. You're the one who's signed under the decision, so that there'll be no mistake. You conducted the procedure completely unprofessionally and not in accordance with the law. What's more, you even broke the law, and I'll tell you when and how. However, if this was not your act in connection with this withdrawal of status legally or that your act was illegal, the Administrative Court so decided. But there's no dilemma here, and then I'll explain to you in detail why. In this case, it goes undoubtedly on your side for some vendetta on you and your client's own way. This is with the personal discredit of someone who disagrees with your government in any way. You have passed all the rules, past the rules of procedure laid down by the Administrative Procedure Act and, as I have already said, without a legal basis, because the decision as it was was was was not even worth being called a decision. Without explanation, without justification, you have issued this act, which you call a decision, and you have taken away some right that belonged to someone. As I have already said, past the procedure where you would actually identify some actual situation where you would face the participants, you would give them an opportunity to plead, as usual, and rule out the Law on Administrative Procedure, i.e. without a legal basis. As it is said, as much as there was a violation of this act of yours, it was not a decision. Not to say that I am speaking to you, the Administrative Court has tore up your decision, Mr. Minister, which you have signed. I have a judgment here on behalf of the people, and I'm going to show you a little bit of what I'm talking about. This judgment refers to the fact that the action against the decision of the Ministry signed by you, Mr Minister, is acceptable and that this decision is repealed. Then the defendant was a party, that is, you, the distinguished minister, or your ministry, are obliged to pay even the costs of the court on the basis of this trial, which is also a kind of absurdity. For your work, you've caused financial damage to the state. It is very well stated by the Court that the action was settled under Article 37 of the Administrative Dispute Act. And I'll tell you what this article is talking about. It discusses whether a decision or an act contains such essential shortcomings as your act, then the action shall not be brought in response to the other party, since the matter is perfectly clear, nor shall it be processed because the act does not deserve the name of the decision. Further findings of the Court. I quote from the verdict that it won't be a mistake for me to make things up. The decision is without any indication of the actual situation and it is therefore essential for the assessment of its legality that this situation be defined, which is a key flaw in the decision. Furthermore, the contested decision concerns the complete absence of concrete facts. Please, Minister, how can you sign a decision without the complete absence of concrete facts? What a country we live in, but this is a legal state for you!? You reasoned in that decision, and I will not read this explanation at all, because it does not deserve even an explanation, but you have referred to some general information that is available in the public media by some authorities. If this is an explanation, then I do not know Then you wrote in your decision that this activity of Mr Zlatko could also be illegal conduct and that is why I think it is a mockery of the body you represent, a mockery of the institution you represent, that is to say a mockery of the minister. [[…]] [[…]] Further, the court nicely records the shortcomings of the decision being so obvious, familiar at first sight without detailed analysis. I would be ashamed, Mr Minister, to sign such a decision that the Administrative Court has torn apart. And you are obliged to know how decisions are made, by what material regulations, and so on, you are obliged to know if you sign them. This ruling of the Administrative Court is indeed a mockery of you, Mr. Minister. When you were talking about rejecting all these allegations about this withdrawal of status, that there is no fact that there is no evidence and so on, here I now present you with evidence, clearly, you are quoting from the judgment that has ripped your decision apart, so there is undeniable evidence that you have acted unlawfully. This is no longer an indictment, it is evident here that you have acted unlawfully. And that's what the court finds in its judgment. This is evidence, in fact, proof that you took the status of a culturer from Mr Zlatko exclusively and only for political reasons, because you did not make any substantive judgement, you did not drop at all. And that is a very burdensome reason why it is no longer acceptable for you to sit in a ministerial chair. And let me say it one more time. One act, even if it weighs that much, is enough to say goodbye to the Ministry, Mr. Secretary. One act alone, we don't need a kind of action. One illegal act I just described to you is enough for you to leave. In addition to all the evidence we have already heard today, I can present to you some other situations where you have also committed a direct violation of the law if you want to talk about whether the interpretation is justified only if the law is being directly violated. However, in the light of this case, which I have just described, I may simply tell you about the illustration or quote two crimes in relation to which you may have been read. The criminal offence of abuse of an official position or of an official right, which speaks of an official or public servant who exploits his position or crosses the border of official rights or does not perform an official duty and thereby gains himself or anyone else any non-profit benefit - this is not your case, but it is an example where the law says - or anyone is harmed. You hurt the damage, the court found the damage, even charged you with the costs of the court. It is an indication of a crime committed, or even more, that the Penal Code also knows the offence of a bride’s work in the service, which says: “An official or public servant who knowingly violates laws or other regulations leaves his or her supervision or otherwise manifestly acts anonymously in the service, shall be punished with a fine or imprisonment of up to three years.” So it is your duty to know that the fundamental component of each decision is explanation, determination of the actual situation and so on. If you do not know this, be instructed or not sign a decision if it is crumbling. And this is an unscrupulous job at work, and this is a direct violation of one of the laws we know in Slovenia, namely, the Penal Code. However, if I continue to go, if you want any further direct violations of legal standards, I can tell you, Mr Minister, you have voluntarily stopped issuing decisions for beneficiaries to cover the social contributions from the budget. Next, some applicants submitted an application for entry into the register of employees in culture and for the right to payment of contributions before April 2020 and did not receive the decision even in early December 2020. Where am I going? Yes, this is actually a very clear violation of the Administrative Procedure Act, where the law requires you to complete administrative proceedings within one month for simple procedures. If there is a need for a specific factual procedure, you have two months to do so. But I think, Mr Minister, that from April to December it has been significantly over two months. I hear we agree here. So this is another very direct and very obvious violation of one of the laws we have in this country. Then keep going. For some who have applied for both status and social contributions, you have issued a status-only decision, not social contributions. Therefore, you have not decided on two substantive matters, which the law again tells you, more specifically the Law on the Realisation of the Public Interest in Culture, I will quote Article 87, which states: “If a person simultaneously submits an application for entry into the register of self-employed persons in culture and a request for recognition of the right to pay contributions to the social security of self-employed persons in culture, the Minister shall decide on both roles at the same time.” You've only made one decision, one you've put so little aside. What is more than a direct violation of the law? Article 11 of the Regulation on self-employed persons in culture also applies to you. And that's not a direct violation of our rules, is it? If we are now quite specific, Mr Minister, I have listed at least three violations of the Slovenian laws in force in this country. If this is not sufficient reason to say mea culpa and that you are not capable of doing this work because you are obviously doing your job, then I do not know what standards you or your party belong to it. So much for when you said that now this interpolation has reached some lowest threshold or whatever you said. I think that, yes, indeed, lower than the fact that the minister is clearly in violation of the law, but it really isn't. It's lower than that. The modus operandi of this government and you, Mr. Minister, are very clear. And it makes me very sad. If the law is broken, it's nothing. Either we apologize, we write something on Twitter, or we don't even discuss it. Because you can afford everything because you're in government, you have authority. And that's it. You can't benefit from any record budget you've set aside for a cultural resort if you have such actions that are obviously illegal. That money doesn't help you to wash your name in a spirit of legality. When I spoke at the outset about political responsibility, which has several aspects, however, the illegal conduct is that aspect of political responsibility, which undoubtedly confirms that today's interpretation is justified against you and that you do not deserve to continue to serve as ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Vasko Simoniti asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, you're probably a lawyer, and you showed me what you've learned. Nice. I'm sure it's very good, and I respect that. Thank you for the advice you gave me. But you need to know that when you ask me to give up that's enough, I want to know if you're so strict about other things. You need to know that in the country right now at, I don't know how many ministries we have, 16 or how many. Now they're going to say that a member of the government doesn't know how many there are, but good, say it. So at this point, there are probably 300, 400 lawsuits and charges and procedures, where, in fact, some procedures are being initiated and there is evidence that something was wrong with the law and so on. These are procedures which form an integral part of the functioning of ministries and concern also specific ones, including persons, institutions and so on. Decisions shall be written by officials, the Minister shall sign them and, in particular, in the margins of the work, shall not deepen precisely in the decision itself and shall seek a legal way to say, justifications or other, third opinions and so on. I personally felt that this is not even a procedure and that there are jobs, I do not plead for jobs, but that is how the services are arranged, clearly, the Minister is neither a lawyer nor does he need to be a lawyer. Therefore, these are quite common and quite common problems. If a mistake occurs, or if the judgment or action is not upheld in a court of law, it shall try to correct and remedy it. It is necessary to know, however, that what you have been talking about has been brought back to a re-decision by the court, and that is now in progress. And that's what you need to know and then tell the whole story of how these things work. If these things are funny to me, you can. I am aware of this issue, and I have already talked about it today, how these things have accumulated, how I signed from the beginning, without going into these things, and then they've gone overboard and we've looked at these explanations. And since the very reasons were not qualitative and did not respond so in a positive or negative decision, I demanded that this start to happen and follow procedures that are right to honour and also meet all the criteria. But you can still, you know, make a mistake, or you can make a mistake, or you can make it out of ignorance or whatever court decides what's right and what's wrong. Thank God, we have a court. But this effort of yours, or even of the National Assembly, would have expected you to rely on bad reasons, in fact, that was the case, so the court returned to re-examination. I'm actually surprised, we read a while ago that there are even some explanations in the Constitutional Court that are as brief as in our explanations to self-employed people. It's totally unquality, and it's in the highest court in the country that decides on human rights. I would expect the National Assembly to respond to this, or even you, who are so thoroughly considering this and deepening that this matter should be initiated. I would also expect the Ombudsman to make an announcement, but that's just by the way. However, I hope that they will follow if, at such relatively less important events, there are such some kind of explanation, let alone in the Constitutional Court. We have also come to know these things in other cases, and we have approached the fact that the explanations are more qualitative. Therefore, this has also come back several times, and this has happened exactly as you mentioned when a person applies for entry into a register, can at the same time request the allocation of rights and should then be granted at the same time. It is because of what I have said that I have separated these things from behavior and also with a duty or obligation that if a person receives the right to pay contributions, it will be paid back and returned to him from that day forward. However, many times this has happened at the request of those affected in the sense that we should at least give them an entry to do because they are looking for a job, they conclude certain contracts, and then they get it easier by entering into a self-employed account. Of course, these procedures were extremely long-lasting in order to ensure that decisions and explanations in the decisions took a qualitative form. However, I have told this many times today how it was done, and it reached out several months later. That was all, actually. But I do believe that that decision was not the best. We got it back from the Administrative Court and they gave it to us in re-judgment. You're a good judge of character. It's such a serious offense. If it is, you'll judge. I don't know who's judging. Probably the court, too, and I'll be relieved of these functions. At this point, however, I think there are at least a thousand lawsuits at various ministries and various procedures that are proceeding normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Mr Minister, you probably didn't understand me very well when I was talking about the explanations or this particular explanation. You're not a lawyer, okay, but length or scope of explanation is not the same as content explanation. The explanation may be very short, but it's substantive. And it wasn't even yours. That's what I was talking about when the Administrative Court tore up your decision, which it wasn't. However, since you are bound by the law on administrative procedure, you are bound by the law on the exercise of public interest in culture and so on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Colleague replica. There's no mismatch here [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	Vice-President, I justify what I said in the debate. Please, don't bother me in the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	The Minister understands you. He told you that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	He didn't understand me. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	That's not a replica, that's a debate you're having, colleague. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Mr. Tanko, now if you stop such an intervention. If you would listen carefully to my discussion [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	My colleague, a replica means an explanation to the minister if he doesn't understand you. The Minister understands you, said [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, he understood because he knew it was a flawed matter. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade German, a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade German, a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] A German colleague, a second warning. Second warning. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade German, you don't have a word. Stay in line! [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get the word all in a row and don't break up here. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get it. First of all, colleague Hefferle. Procedurally, it's not your turn yet. Look, as far as the replica is concerned, you probably know what a replica is. The Minister understands you. He said it in the debate. Don't joke around here, come on, look. We are now making procedural proposals. Violeta Tomic first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Thank you, Chairman. Since you're obviously not able to conduct these sessions impartially, it's my procedure. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Colleague, first warning. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] My colleague, a reminder. Second warning. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course you do, but that's not the point. What do you want from me? [[advertising from the hall]] I shall hold the meeting as set out in the Rules of Procedure. The procedural proposal concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure. I am meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as my colleague did earlier, so that something is not misunderstood. First of all, Comrade Prebil, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	President, thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Comrade German, I'm removing you from your session. It's an insult. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I ask the services of the National Assembly to remove you from the session. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] A German colleague, please, if you'll excuse me. [[advertising from the hall]] Easy, easy, easy. First of all, my German friend. [[advertising from the hall]] First, my German colleague will withdraw from the meeting. We'll be adjourned in 15 minutes. We'll continue at 7:45. (The sitting was suspended at 19.29 and resumed at 19.44.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	Your Honor, the session has been suspended until 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 20.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to inform you that the meeting will begin in half an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 20.06 and resumed at 20.32.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We'll continue the session at 9 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.33 and resumed at 21.00.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Dear fellow Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister with Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I should like to offer my sincere congratulations to the ministers on a personal holiday for seven decades. In Styria we say “More on many summers!” Dear Vice-President, I promise to be cultural, because I am certainly aware that our work in this National Assembly is also part of Slovenian culture. Today, as the entire day of the interview against the Minister of Culture in the Republic of Slovenia, little is lost in the fact that we witnessed two more ministers, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Education a few days ago or two weeks ago. At the beginning, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be led by someone else, who is not even in politics anymore. This interpellation is certainly different from all interpretations in the Republic of Slovenia in all history, against the minister who has been working for culture in the Republic of Slovenia for decades, is one of the seventeen ministers in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have often heard that Slovenia celebrates 30 years of independence this year. Certainly Slovenian culture had a strong mark that Slovenia is independent and that Slovenia is the one, at least about the one we want Slovenia and Slovenia. Dear Vice President, I'd like to, given that we've had a one-hour break. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Your Honor, I'm sorry to reach out to you. Colleagues and colleagues, please, let's be patient. Let us insist on the rules of procedure and not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Please, over there on my right. Please, let's be patient. I know we're getting tired, but let's be respectful. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u189	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you also to all those who have heeded the advice of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Of the 17 ministers in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, I have already argued in this National Assembly that everyone who was ministers of culture in this country certainly wanted the best culture in this way or in another way. Surely, some succeeded a little more, others a little less. Surely, however, Minister Vasko Simoniti proved, given that for the second time the minister worked for culture and that the culture in both ministries was well established. I can't agree with the testimony of those who suggest interpolation. Throughout the day, we listened to the left hand side, that there was no money for culture. The Minister has proved it several times in his ears when he fought for a cake intended for culture in the Republic of Slovenia with his sleeves wrapped. That's what the data says. If 162 million were allocated to culture during the ministry of Dejan Prešič, his successor Zoran Poznic had a cake for culture, for a good 172 million, and during the ministry of Dr Simoniti, EUR 237.9 million was allocated to culture. To make it easier for citizens and citizens to understand that there are more than €75.9 million since 2018. Minister, even though you have listened to the obvious today, alone as a national constituency and all those who accompany can understand from the figures that money is much more. Of course, it'll never be enough. All day long, we've been listening to eyewitnesses about self-employed people. We also heard that someone was hungry. It may happen somewhere, but the numbers also show here, the distinguished minister, that in 2016 there were 825 self-employed persons, and today or yesterday there were over 3 000. Since he's been running this ministry with his team, Dr. Simoniti, there's over 600 self-employed more. Surely, all of us in this Chamber are aware that for the field of culture we all have to do more - and these opportunities and opportunities - for us to do more, even more. We'll never be so high that we can't do it again. Certainly also, as I mentioned earlier 17 ministers in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, to whom there has ever been a mistake, but ministers and current ministers with their team certainly work for Slovenian culture. Dear Minister, I would also like Slovenian culture to receive additional weight from this House, thanks to our thanks, honourable Members and Members. Many times when we listen to our debates, when we condemn ourselves, when we may be sending out Slovenian words, we are too often aware that citizens and citizens are listening to us and that these unjustifiable statements, when they are heard from the hall of this national assembly, are spreading unjustifiablely - but many times they are not to blame, but we are to blame - throughout the country. In this case, it's between culturers. Certainly I cannot imagine Slovenia without the Slovenian word, Slovenian songs, Slovenian language, cultural monuments, and many more. Let me get this straight. When I monitor the work of this minister in this mandate, of course with my team, I must admit to him that he works for Slovenian culture and that he certainly deserves to perform this function, which is not easy. Throughout the day, the Minister’s observations were also given in a different way. But we must all be aware that when the Minister takes office, there are a lot of people at the Ministry of Employment who have been employed in the previous term or any other term of office back and that we need to work with those people who are actually in the ministry. When we sometimes condemn the Minister, we must be aware that the Minister is not alone in the Ministry, that there are many employees, we must also assess those that may have been proposed by someone from this Chamber to this ministry. Minister, I would like you to continue working in this mandate for Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u190	Thank you very much. He has the word Vojko Starović, to prepare Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A nice greeting to all present and to the Minister for Culture. In today's debate on the interpretation of the Culture Minister, I note that we treat culture quite narrowly and also underestimatingly. All too little is aware of the importance of culture for our lives and work. Because of the individual trees, we overlook the larger picture, we don't see the forest. That's not new. Since the independence of Slovenia, we continue to wonder on the import and neo-capitalist intentions of how much culture costs us. The first government has even proposed that music and visual education be deleted as compulsory subjects from the curriculums of primary schools, as it is necessary to rationalise matters. It's crazy. For the sound symbols created by music and art, modern neuroscience explicitly proves their unique importance for brain development and thinking. But this knowledge is nothing new. From a long time ago, the elites in their castles cultivated and maintained music and artistic creativity, aware of their importance. Fortunately, the intention of the Slovenian government failed at that time. The resistance of the entire civil society was too strong. Allow me to use this for worshipers of the Bible’s golden calf and modern believers of universal commercialization directly the blasphemous words of author Andrej Predin: The economy does not preserve culture, but it is the culture that enables the economy. To understand what has been said, we need to look at the actual origin of the most extraordinary qualities and characteristics of our human race. This is our intelligence, speech and language, our ability to cooperate comprehensively and to develop the technology with which we greatly help each other. These characteristics have by no means developed as a biologically adaptable response to external circumstances, as advocates of social Darwinism are trying to explain, which mechanically translates the theory of species development into society. By the way, author Charles Darwin himself made it clear in his later writings that his theory was by no means applicable to the human race. All these extraordinary properties are in fact the result of culture and civilization. People are a species that only affects themselves. Not only is the human mind able to create culture, but culture as such creates and develops the human mind. By our consciousness, by our culture, we create ourselves, society, and change the world. Human culture is actually a strong upgrade to natural biological evolution. Culture is what we do not stay at the level of hunting for food and bloody conflicts with competing tropics. Culture is what creates and promotes our humanity, our pursuit of higher and more thoughtful. I think it is right to talk about culture also from this broader perspective, which we often forget. And this broader perspective, in my opinion, also belongs to the sphere of the Minister of Culture. In this broader context, which refers to all forms of human activity and to the symbolic structures that give meaning and meaning to such activities, technical culture, as well as to the culture of communication, how we agree and cooperate, how we express how polite we are when we talk to different thinking people. All of this is a condition for the good functioning of society, the country, its institutions and also economic drives. The fact that culture allows the economy, and not the other way around, can also be illustrated by a simple thought experiment. Would someone put criteria or medicines in the environment of the original peoples in the midst of the jungle of Africa, Amazonia or Borneo and rely only on resources in the place and the culture of the environment? It wouldn't work and it won't work. But the truth is, it could be the other way around. If members of these small people live and grow in a highly culturally developed environment, they are capable of the same achievements as us. That culture is what makes us human is also a eloquent witness to the fates of abandoned young people who have survived because they have been taken into their wing by social animals. So we have a case of children growing up in wolf, monkey or dog tropics. These children, who grew up without human contact, conversation, no concepts, no words and opinions, music, visual expression, and who had only been found after years, were no longer helped, they missed their developmental cultural window. Undoubtedly, it speaks of culture as the one that makes it possible for a successful economy. This is what mature and successful countries have come to know before time. Europe is also taking its next path in this direction. However, our current authority seems to be still insisting on the path that the head of the RCC, Pope Francis, in his last encyclopaedia, described as completely flawed. Commercial logic, based solely on profit and egoism and the culture of exclusion, leads to the deformation of democracy, the concept of freedom and justice, and the loss of sense for the common good. Mr Minister, I believe that you, as a highly educated, viewed and experienced man, are very active, who, last night, also celebrated your high holiday, understand what I'm talking about. Minister, I am joining the congratulaters myself, but I am wondering what is the reason why you do not act more sovereignly and decisively than the Minister of Culture and Protector of Culture, who is very important for the development of every society and identity of the nation and nation. Why do you, the Minister of Culture responsible for the growth of culture, of this soft yet powerful power, subject yourself to someone who, after his work, acts like a hammer that the world sees as nails by which to beat their heads? The fact is, people see things differently. The simple unanimity in which self-reliants and authoritarian systems are entrenched is no longer abundant in the modern world. The fact is that we are living with doubts and that nothing is purely permanent and clear. This is how we usually think that photographs show reality, but in fact they are just projections of light. In reality, though, there are differing views that we face today, and these views may often be contradictory. Dubito, ergo, I doubt it, so I did, and the expression Cogito, ergo sum, I mean, so I, I've already, been able to identify the great mind of Rene Descartes almost four hundred years ago. The points of today's interpretation refer to the conduct of the Culture Minister in a narrower sense, in terms of artistic creation, which the Ministry is also responsible for. Art creations, however, are generally important and indispensable for the growth of culture. In addition to philosophy and religion, they have always helped us to understand ourselves and to devise the world. In doing so, the contribution of art is especially valuable because it leads us not only through reason but also through feelings that are an integral part of our stay. With this, art gives us much immaterial: joy, courage, and love for life. Art is one way to lie together with the creation and creation of new images and stories that express feelings for the world and that wake us up and arouse different feelings within us. This is a mental and spiritual tradition, which also created our language, designed by the Slovenian nation and nation. Mr. Minister, can we agree that the prerequisite for creative art is the art that seeks and finds new interpretations and aspects, freedom and once again freedom? In the SAB, a liberal political option, we strongly believe that a society that does not promote freedom of artistic creativity is not a free society. Exactly at this point, the differences between democratic and open societies and those on or off the road. In this respect, we have not achieved much in the last 30 years. This is particularly so in the work of the current government. To have the right to determine what is true art and which creations must be supported and proclaimed a symbol of a community is unseemly and actually wrong. An example of failed attempts to introduce one society can be seen today in North Korea and elsewhere. In the past century, however, we have an eccentric example of where the development of regime art leads. Teutonic heroes as leaders, zealous patriotism, families in their idyllic purity in Nazi Germany was a reflection of a regime that led the world to the greatest sea. The conflict between two different worlds, the imaginary, conductive, and the real world, with all the contradictions and uncertainty that we live on the other side, was very vividly demonstrated at the world exhibition in Paris in 1937. On the one hand, in the German pavilion, monumental Nazi images were placed, and on the other hand, in the Spanish pavilion, the isolated Guernica, a gift from Pablo Picasso to the Spanish Republic, which became and remains an icon of the moral values of contemporary art. A symbol of opposition to war. Mr. Minister, what art do you advocate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u192	Thank you very much. He has the word Robert Polnar, to prepare himself for the Mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u193	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Members, honourable Minister. What we are considering today is a criticism of power. But the moment comes when it becomes a play of grave and malice. This is the moment when we find ourselves preaching democratic values, but we know and realize that we are really abandoning them. We can easily put off with good excuses and bad self-blinding. On behalf of freedom, we make up our enemies of freedom. But these are within us, in mentality and in political culture. Under the surface and learned rules, the Constitution and the law despite, we are only men of flesh and blood, greedy of authority, who easily become wicked, vengeful, greedy, or beastly. I wish it was a made-up story, but it's not. It's actually happening. How could this have happened? How do you make the impression that policy is the achievement of secret agreements, hidden goals and mass insanity, but not a responsible decision on what is intended and why is taken? What we are dealing with today is therefore a criticism of power. I have noticed that this criticism could be more valuable if much pain were articulate than sad or angry. The characteristic of our Slovenian political moment is that the critics of the authorities are always either articulated or just sad and angry, but almost never both at the same time. Togota and anger as dominant emotions within the local public have prevented a rational debate on anything. In some monologues, the right to excruciating and angry is vigorously defended. However, the preference of the articulated argument in the dialogues is declared a betrayal. An excellent illustration of what has just been said is the hysteria that arose when the Minister began to deal with the demands for recognition of the right to pay social security contributions to self-employed people in culture. The scene thus showed a strong coalition potential of tabloids and social networks and raised an incredible ramp and pump in connection with alleged discrimination and the horrendous injustices that are said to be taking place. Slovenian culturers have a habit and custom to become quickly ugly when the word is applied to culture. They get angry and angry at everything, but certainly because of the general limitations which cannot and cannot understand how much culture is important for our national existence, but when we are among many and dangerous military nations, between different elected and heavenly peoples, or by economic powers, we are preserved only by our own smile of civilization, as is true culture. They are besieged by the monetary pillar of today's Slovenian culture, which walks us into a dangerously unstable province. Therefore, according to them, the Slovenian nation has never been in as much danger as it is at the time of final independence. That's how they get angry, less talent when they have, louder they do it. Since much of this is quite true, of course it is here and there good to say it. But self - importance and self - interest are dangerous and, most often, an unconscionable state that blurs out and unrelentingly pushes away everything else. Ladies and gentlemen! So what is the state of the cash pillar of Slovenian culture, which is part of the direct exercise of the powers of the Ministry of Culture? It is good to look at the final accounts of the country's budgets for a few years. For example, the implementation of the cultural budget in 2018 amounted to EUR 162 million. In 2019, it increased to little less than €173 million. And in 2020, a budget of €180 million and €497,000 was implemented at the Ministry of Culture. Never before in the history of independent Slovenia has such a high budget been realized. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking today about the budget implemented, not what is planned for 2021. We therefore have a situation in which today we are interpolating the Minister who has achieved the highest budget for culture, and this will also be demonstrated by the final budget account for 2020. One of the basic or fundamental features of interpolation is or is expressed as being the deconstruction and destruction of the cultural sector by an existing minister. It is said that someone is deconstructing and destroying a particular entity as it has never been before. That this same entity in time of the most terrible crisis is financed better than at a time that truly absorbs conjunctures. Such an attitude is, of course, contrary to facts in Bulldozer logic. Above all, it points to something else, we have become a practice and it is also very important that we like to deal very much with the specifics of resources, but we never, or hardly ever, care about the importance of the objective. Ladies and gentlemen! The ancient Latins imagined that culture was all that man could and could do beyond nature with his own creativity. Such a culture is, after all, the fundamental definition of all social groups and, above all, national groups. As far as culture is concerned, it does not appear in Slovenia to create empty hopes, it does not appear too much to trust the spiritual scheme of Slovenian thinking, which works within us as a deeper legacy of historical experience, which has not been done since yesterday and not only since World War II. The history of a small, threatened and stateless people, and not a materially poor nation, could not give or pass on more lasting patterns of freedom of thought and true thinking at all. We are also Slovenians without a Renaissance for ourselves and for a nation that has been torn away from the Middle Ages only by the enlightenment of the 18th century, and also by half enlightenment, because, for example, Linhart's more radical thoughts about the human right to personal liberty and happiness remain deeply buried in private writings. We then made a myth about the Slovenians as a nation of poets, a myth that is one of the most problematic stereotypes of thinking about ourselves. Myth always hides something. In fact, the nation of Slovenia has always borne a great poet or artist. It is especially difficult because he did not tolerate his own free or bold view of the world. But he loved a large number of coffee poets, who were sometimes more than readers. Of course, culture and its exciting Slovenian story, which she has never known and does not really know today who knows what tolerance and freedom, only one of the stories of our history and our mental condition. There are other stories that are not less consistent if we examine them more accurately. But it would be a mistake to hide them all by yourself. After all, the nation is as powerful as the truth about itself. If he can't do it, of course, myths are needed. And where they're going, we're pretty clear today. However, there is no need to be pessimistic about the sobering thought that the Slovenian mental condition is still filled with reflexes of danger. This is said by the reflexes of fear, mistrust and exclusion in one direction or another, with reflexes of thoughtlessness and always a new step in one way or another digging into the ditches of unrelenting fronts. It is as if there are still some mental conditions within us from the deep back that are almost easier to navigate into any fundamentalism than into truly internal genuine freedom and democracy. And it is as if we are still confirming a somewhat strange impression that the history of the Slovenians has made a nation that in situations of real danger is doing a good job and that it suffers poorly from freedom. But getting out of this tiring spiritual scheme is probably just an exit, not any referendum on changing Slovenian national character. It can only be a new striving of the spirit and changing everyday life practices. These things can't be easy, they can't be fast, they concern us all in order, and not just the bad ones on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen! When the Ministry of Culture implements its policies, it is oriented within a basic policy called culture and civil society. This policy is divided into four programmes and 20 sub-programmes. What I would like to stress is the four sub-programmes, which are the most important in terms of their scope within the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Two of them are, in their entirety, more than 73% of the total expenditure of the Ministry of Culture. It is a sub-programme Art programs and sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. On the sub-programme Art Programmes in 2020, it is said last year that €75 million was realised, the year before 69 and the year before, that is, in 2018, €67 million. This is said to increase by €6 million in one year. On the second most powerful sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities, a good EUR 57 million was realized in the past year, the year 53 and the year 50. It is said that on both key sub-programmes covered by the Ministry of Culture in 2020, I would like to reiterate, in a terrible recession year, the highest expenditure in the entire history of the Ministry of Culture as we know it. The third most important sub-programme according to its size are the Awards and Social Rights in the field of culture. In 2020, 10 million and 300 thousand, the year before 9 million and 700 thousand, before 9 million. That's what they say. There's growth here, too. However, certain weaknesses must also be acknowledged. On the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture, 9 million and a half were realized, and a year earlier almost 11 million, and a year earlier only 9 million. This is said to actually be a fluctuation, but in my humble opinion, there is no way that the minister should fly away for that reason. In the last year's budget debates, as well as in the adoption of certain anti-Korona packages, we have listened to the terrible barking of the Ministry of Culture neglecting the publishing sector in the part co-financed. The Publications sub-programme is one of the smaller within the Ministry's expenditure structure. In 2020, 5 million and 400 thousand were realized, the year before 5 million 500 thousand and the year before 5 million 400 thousand. This means that it has been within those gauges that have been valid for practically three years. And here we have listened to the apocalyptic estimates of how this will all go down. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have just presented and listed is, let's say, a well-maintained or shared understanding of culture, which is reduced to the care of artistic and seemingly artistic production and reproduction. This production and reproduction has never been as extensive as it is today. And it's never been attended by so many people. In other words, it is barely possible to find a person who is not at least secretly involved in the All-Slovenian conspiracy to write a song, who at least on Sundays does not try to paint, who does not sing in at least one singing choir or if I go to a more mass level, which at least does not watch television. But national television, as we know, is considered to be the largest cultural factory within the national community. Those rare ones, which are a little more difficult or which are a little more difficult, having a natural healthy mistrust, a distance to the existing state, may sometimes think that culture can't be just what the Ministry of Culture manages. They also understand culture as an intellectual, spiritual and behavioural state and the attitude of people who do not necessarily depend directly on the cultural budget and anything that can be expressed in numbers. For them, culture is also a way of talking between people, all forms of communication, from an egregious greeting, to parliamentary debate or court hearing. To them, culture is a relationship to nature and something to itself and to another person, a true area of morality that is studied by ethics. This work and this aspect of culture cannot be expressed by statistics and not by descriptive reports. It's detected by more fiction, from essays to novels, from lirica to drama. And we see it somehow all together in the quality of our lives and in our relationships, ranging in a positive spectrum from tolerance to cleansing and magnification, and in a negative spectrum from embarrassment to hopelessness. I am sure that the authors of interpolation may not intend to destroy us culturally, but they also want to use culture as a means of transport for their exclusive social idea, especially the insurance of their larger or smaller sins. One of the most rude means of blackmailing budget money at the Ministry of Culture is the threat of every institution and every cultural or artistic branch, in particular, that culture will collapse disastrously if their project is not well-funded enough. How much non-culture has happened in the name of culture and precisely because people have tried to pursue culture, coming only from culture itself. Larpuratism in culture leads to nothing but absurdity. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if one thinks more carefully, things do not change substantially. Only times change. Some things are eternal. Among them is particularly blindness and self - control. Because of this interpolation, I'm not going to support it. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I was going to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very well greeted Minister, Secretary of State, all other colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to continue where I finished last week, because today we have the third part of an Interpellation. Today it is the turn of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. The minister has been accused all the time that the one who is guilty of fleeing culturers abroad is guilty of the fact that culturers, many of them, will be plunged into business hardships, into personal hardships, as if we were not all in the same trouble, as if we were not all living inside Slovenia, where there is a fellow, as if we were not living within Europe and as if we were not this world, where the epidemic reigns in almost every country. As a result, all the other things you read to him are really unfounded. Let's go in one order. The self-employed, who you have already met so many times in committee meetings, and also today have pointed out that the Minister does not stand up for them, but that he denies them rights by not granting them status, would remind you once again that the self-employed have received the same as the others who have been entitled to receive a basic income of EUR 700 and have not been forgotten. To date, self-employed people have received almost eight million euros of monthly basic income. If we look at graphs, how many of them were self-employed in culture entered into the self-employed view. From 2015 to 2020, this number has increased sharply. And the current minister hasn't even lowered that number. But it grew by a thousand 243 self-employed. At the same time, I wonder whether we really have so many more cultures in Slovenia that actually belong to this status, or whether we have given in to quality. If we think about it, it's almost impossible for so many high-quality cultures to produce in the last period compared to the previous period, so there's actually some kind of tax damage here. I agree that the Minister has taken this area under observation. This will show up in the next period, not now, as you wanted to show right after the first steps the Minister took. Of course, it is necessary to review the whole area of why there is such a big gap in numbers and to see if the criteria are really overly loose, because in certain areas within culture the criteria have really fallen. If we just look at how we gain champion status compared to past years, it's much easier to get the title now. And I'm not going to get into this right now because it's not dark. Then it's about Metelkov. Now I'm going to ask you something different than today's speech about how the Minister has emigrated or thrown out those who have been for so many years not to this address. And I'm going to ask you if you would leave someone in your possession if you were 10, 15, 20, I don't know how many years of that space you wouldn't need, but if you needed this place again, you'd say no, no, because we're such a good heart, we'd leave you, be in there, you could actually still be in our property. That's what you really want from the minister. You don't understand that this is state property. They were actually renting. The Minister warned them that he intended to make something else out of this building and politely asked them to seek new premises. It's not a dispute, it's all in accordance with property rights. Then stop. We've talked about the STA many times before, and it's clear again that the ministry is somehow getting its hands on the STA. Again, I will repeat what the Slovenian Press Agency Act states: “STA must not finance market activities from public service funds.” The contract states that the contractor must, at his express request, provide all documentation concerning the performance of the public service without delay to the representative of the founder. Otherwise, it must cooperate with and respond to its requirements for documentation and clarifications. This obligation has not been fulfilled by the STA. And now I'm going to turn to you again. Do you think you would have received payment from the National Assembly if you had not signed the contract and if you had not fulfilled your obligations? Probably not. And actually that's what's happening to the STA right now. Nothing else. If the STA fulfils its obligations, it will also receive financial resources. Let's go to RTV. And I will process RTV mainly from the point of view of employees, because we always turn to employees to actually want to influence the reporting of journalists. You know that we have had this topic on RTV at several meetings of the Committee on Culture, and I will read only this sentence that the internal audit has found that there is a risk of non-management of employment not by quality but by number of employees. If we look at the RTV employee allowance they received in the first wave and in the second wave, it was 2 million 123 thousand. Then how much will the Ministry of RTV take? And you're still saying he wants to disable his work. So a lot of the words written in the interpolation have already been thrown out today, and I'm going to throw away everything that's been said so far. Perhaps we should stop at the fact that the Minister does not have a hearing for the public concerned and for the public institutions. The Minister is the only one who has listened to both self-employed and public institutions so far. I don't know if you took a little field walk and asked public institutions how much money they had in the past to rebuild the public infrastructure that we know to be long lasting. I am in constant contact with the directors of public institutions in Nova Gorica, as well as with local authorities, both in the municipality of Nova Gorica and in neighbouring municipalities, and they are grateful to the Minister for hearing them this time. For the first time in years, it was possible for many public institutions to restore equipment that had been worn out. In fact, they were already in trouble when they failed to perform a concert or some theatre game or improvised to perform it. But this minister fixed it. He gave the money. Since open calls are still open or have just been completed for the restoration of cultural heritage, as well as with additional resources for public institutions, many more will actually be restored in this year. I would also like to thank the Minister for everything he has done for Nova Gorica for all the public institutions and what is actually still going on. At the same time, I would like to focus on staffing in public cultural institutions. When you report to the minister that he is employed on principle only that he is ours, that kima, even if he is not professional, I will tell you an example from my local environment because I know that most of all. A very close relative of today's interpolation proponent, but I do not want to take this personally now, Comrade Matjaž, so that we do not accidentally take it personally, but as an example, because I am the easiest to explain in my case. I will also not appoint a person because I do not want to harm the name, but that you will know that actually under the SD tactics while the SD was in the government and whenever he was in the government, he put his people in all public institutions in Nova Gorica. This lady, whom I have mentioned, has been placed without adequate conditions, has persisted for some time until we have proved that there are indeed no conditions. Then somehow the SD gave in, and of course he put it in a different place. But that's not the only case. And this same lady, I will repeat, a close relative of Matjaža Germana, directed a number of national celebrations, not one, but more. As far as staffing is concerned, I think you've got a lot more butter than the current minister has, because he's actually very well-founded, not like you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond because I did not understand the implementation of this colleague. If you mean Neda R. Bric, this is the lady who actually brought the European Capital of Culture to Novo Gorica, she is not my next of kin. Even when she was the director of the theatre, SD had nothing to do with it. I just wanted to explain and I don't understand why a colleague feels obliged to say three minutes before seven that someone is my close associate. But I am very proud of the lady, and I think we all have to be proud, because if it were not for her, Nova Gorica would not be the European capital of culture. So all congratulations to Nedi Rusjan Bric for this remarkable feat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u199	Mate Matjaž actually wanted to do this little for himself now, but he knows well and is now misleading the public that he is not in contact with Neda Rusjan Bric. I didn't want to name it because I don't want to talk names here, nor will we talk about the European Capital of Culture as it ran, and we won't talk about everything that's going on now, because it's already washing dirty laundry from the New York congregation. So I would like to ask Matjaž the German because, in this regard and regarding the appointment of what was going on in the theatre, I would not like to go to the debate because this is not the topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u200	Here you are, a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have to. You started this. Neda Russian Bric is my mom's cousin. So I don't know what that means, whether it's shorter for you or not. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u202	Dear Mr. German, please for a moment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u203	But, Madam Vice President, now I don't know why she's saying this. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u204	Mrs. Ushiy, please don't disturb the speaker when he speaks. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm gonna finish it, 'cause I don't think it's connected, really. But speaking of saying things the way they are. As has already been said, I am extremely proud of this person, and we can therefore be grateful that we have the European Capital of Culture in Nova Gorica because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-24-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is 22 p.m. and I interrupt the 19th agenda and the 67th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
