ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Nik Prebil until 1:00 p.m., Maša Kociper until 2 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 16:00 to 17:00, Tadeja Šuštar from 16:00 to 20:00, Samo Bevk from 12:00, Iva Dimic from 2 p.m., Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko and Ivan Hršak. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for an emergency measure in the field of health in the context of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Alenki Forte, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Mrs. Forte, you can go to the pay phone. You can be without a pay phone mask.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 17 June 2021, the Government introduced extremely important laws into the legislative process. One of these is the Health Emergency Action Act that we are presenting to you today. In view of the need to control covid-19 infectious disease, a new law should be adopted with urgent measures to mitigate the consequences and impact of covid-19 infectious disease in the field of health and labour law. This law will make it possible to work better in health care and increase access to health services and safety in the use of medical devices. The measures are mostly limited in time, except for measures which make sense to implement them as permanent. In particular, it is indicated which measures are exceptionally applicable as from 1 July 2021, in order not to interrupt the duration of the measure which expires under previous intervention laws. Since the proposal represents urgent measures in the field of health, the Government, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes that the call for a legislative referendum should not be allowed in order to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied. The overall measures are estimated at EUR 66.6 million. The funds will be provided from the budget reserve or finance plans of ministries and from the provisions of supplementary health insurance companies. The viral load of covida-19 is still high. We are facing a fourth wave, so it is essential to co-finance personal protective equipment for health organisations and social security institutions. It is necessary to extend the implementation and financing of the screening test to covid-19 from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to the high number of pending patients for interventions and investigations, it is necessary to extend the national call for improved accessibility to health services and the implementation of the entire programme at the annual level financed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, so we propose a temporary transfer of unrealised health care programmes. Furthermore, it is necessary to extend the period for the fulfilment of the education requirement for health care techniques, as they were unable to complete their education to the level of high health workers during the co-vid. However, under the conditions for determining the responsible operator of an activity, the applicable legal condition should be limited to the condition that the work is carried out on its own. In the field of labour law, it is necessary to extend the remuneration measure to workers for a certain quarantine at home or for the inability to perform labour due to a higher force. It is necessary to supplement the right to supplement direct work with covid-19 patients. In addition to this proposal, the law also provides for the right to an allowance for work in a risky situation during the epidemic for school directors and school managers, kindergartens and public administrations, as mayors and mayors have been very self-sacrificing in helping to control the epidemic. More effective work in health care, access to health services or safety requires the addition of the Health Databases Act implemented by the National Institute of Public Health. We set the legal basis for the integration of the collections of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the collection of NIJZ. The bill provides effective solutions for ordering and vaccination, tracking cross-border transitions within the EU application or a well-known digital green certificate. The law allows for thorough monitoring of the recording and charging of services and control of the quality of certain services, such as the installation of endoprotetic material for patients. We also increase the capacity of the National Institute for Public Health’s epidemiological services. Temporary administrative burdens on the procurement of projects for the construction of health facilities continue to be ensured. The legal basis for genomic sequencing is established and the possibility of medical treatment is extended for persons who are not completely independent after completion of hospital treatment following covid-19. The bill provides budgetary funding for clinical psychology specialisations, introduces the promotion of family medicine specialisations and introduces a planned call for medical fellowships for the next decade. We also introduce quality and safety in testing only on covid-19. Let me finish. The proposed measures will make it easier for the healthcare worker daily, while at the same time increasing access to health services and health insurance. The law, which has been submitted to the legislative process, is also the beginning of a difficult path that Slovenian health care must still go through, namely the planning of personnel, the more effective functioning of healthcare providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	President of the National Assembly, good morning! Colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is in its 54th emergency session of 30th. 6. and at the first resumed meeting. 7. The draft law on emergency measures in the field of health submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration was considered by the parent labour body. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis and so it did. Amendments to both opposition and coalition parties were also tabled within the deadline. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Alenka Forte, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the proposer, some of which she also said today. She stressed that the main aim of the bill was to mitigate the consequences of spreading covid-19 infection both in individuals who are users of health services or workers and at the level of healthcare providers. The Secretary of State also presented the main solutions to the bill. Mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik presented the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, stressing that the law's proposal by content is one of the laws governing matter related to the amortisation of the consequences of infectious diseases covid-19, structured in a manner such as the so-called PKP laws and includes legal arrangements in the form of amendments to derogations to the provisions of individual laws and provisional measures. In relation to the legislative procedure used in the adoption of intervention laws, the Legislative and Legal Service has repeatedly pointed out problems such as fragmentation of regulation and duplication of content. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, work, health care and disabled persons was presented by Tomaž Horvat. He pointed out that the Commission had considered the draft law and had taken note of the views of the Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Chamber of Health and Gamal Care of Slovenia. Their views are further explained in the opinion of the Commission. After a thorough discussion, the Commission adopted a decision supporting the law. The president of the Slovenian Medical Chamber, Dr. Bojana Beović, also presented her position on the bill. Otherwise, in the debate, opposition Members were critical of the bill. The applicant was informed that the proposed measures were a violation of the legal system and a violation of the Constitution, as also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. The bill implies the exhaustion of the public sector at the expense of the private sector or the gradual privatisation of health care. In their view, the draft law introduces irresponsible systemic changes and substitutes as to how the health system should not work. In particular, they pointed to individual changes they disagree with. On the other hand, the coalition's representatives stressed that the measures introduced by the bill would make an important contribution to regulating the health situation and, as a result, help to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. In their view, the bill is well prepared, it intervenes in different areas and comes at the right time. The existing government is working intensively on the content of the area and on how to improve the health system, which has not been managed by any government in recent years or decades. Young doctors also welcome the solution to the bill because they want to work and create in Slovenia, not that the system forces them abroad. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Mr President, honourable Members, representatives of the Government are warmly welcomed! Is it clear that we speak in the new language without a mask?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. In front of us is a change in the law or the law on emergency measures in the health sector, which has some good solutions, some inappropriate, which is an intervention in public procurement or monopolisation of pharmacies and specialised shops, concerning the sale of certain medical supplies. As Social Democrats, we want to draw attention to two today, and we have also proposed solutions. The first problem, one of the biggest problems in our country, is waiting species. We are particularly concerned about those who cannot come, even though their lives are at stake, to timely medical care. If something is very wrong, the data also shows, so allow the case. During the first four months of this year, there were 90 000 acute hospital treatments, in a normal year, say 2019, 28 thousand more. Since the disease is not expected to be less, it means that people who are sick cannot get help. It is therefore correct and I am also pleased that, with a question from the Member States, I have found that private reserve insurance companies have deposited 62 million profits, which will now be used to reduce waiting types, as the rest of the money should be used. However, we must only be aware that we live in a country where we have public, state hospitals where we have a public health system. Why am I saying this? Rational people would do anything to first fill free capacities in public, state hospitals, then in concessionaires who are also part of public health, then in other health workers. The measures we cannot buy in Slovenia would be purchased abroad. We advocate a cascade system and any other division, buying new operations and investigations is actually a breakdown of public health. I hope that with the amendments we will succeed in making a coalition at this point. Second. I have just received a reply from the government authorities that it is only last year for so-called covid supplements, these are not supplements received by the poor, these are not supplements received by those who lose their jobs, these are not supplements received by people who are sick and stay at home, covid supplements are basically intended for those who should work with sick people and therefore have a slightly higher pay due to the threat. And imagine, last year, 41 times the size of Germany paid covid supplements for about 100 million euros. Small Slovenia, 41 times smaller and significantly different by economic power, did not pay 100 but almost 300 million. Up to this point, the Slovenian government has paid a co-module of allowances in an unfair manner of over 600 million. I afford every money that people get, allow them to get money from those who work with sick people. It does not seem acceptable, however, for you to reward a server that works with a sick person for a few ten euros, a doctor of science who works with the same person, and a few thousand euros a month. It's not a normal system. Consider the case of other European countries, see the case of Germany. Everyone gets the same. However, you have introduced discrimination and introduced a system where covid supplements are also given to people who do not work with patients at all. You also want to continue this system. You're wasting money that's not yours. You're spending money that isn't even in the state budget right now, but to spend on the criminal covid supplements, you're burdening our children, our grandchildren, our grandchildren. We have come up with a proposal for a partial solution because this law alone does not allow for a broader solution. But that's a request. The request that we arrange covid supplements in the coming weeks so that anyone who is in contact and will have to work with sick people will receive a fair payment. But there must be no difference. There can't be a difference between a server and a doctor of science, because it's nowhere else in the world. This is our request to support this amendment. Let's get ready for the fall. Everyone threatens what will happen in the fall. Yes, unless we are intercepted, if the proposals for measures proposed are not taken into account, it is highly likely that the epidemic will be in a wider area here. That is why I will also take this opportunity: respected citizens, respected citizens, vaccination at this time is the only chance we will be open in the autumn. Don't let this government lock us up again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Comrade Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	President, thank you for your word. The government of Janez Janša immediately showed how it understands the covida-19 epidemic. Not as the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years, but as an opportunity. And she took this opportunity with both hands. With the acquisition of protective equipment, it has opened up a season of budget grabbing, and with brutal accounting with the media and staffing, concrete in the authorities at all costs. It privatises public money and privatises power. It was only a matter of time before she was privatized to health care. The exact privatisation of public health is at the heart of the Health Emergency Action Act, because health care in a solidarity and human rights way is supported by people in this country, and the government does not intend to sell it directly. It intervenes on the strategy by which public health is drained and rewards privately, amid the epidemic, when privatised health systems in foreign countries have collapsed as a house of cards, and in Slovenia public health has solved the epidemic. The strategy for privatising health is therefore governed by three concrete measures. The first is a national call to shorten waiting periods, which will also allow private operators to apply. And of course they're gonna sign up. They will collect viable interventions and fill their pockets with public money, while public hospitals exhaust themselves by solving the epidemic. The fact that it is not a matter of actually shortening waiting periods confirms the fact that the call will be made past the health register, which is the payer of material and services, and thus beyond the general agreement or the guardians who otherwise regulate the flow of money. But the most obvious ambition after the feeding of the private is that the government doesn't even know what the waiting period situation is. If we really wanted to shorten the waiting periods, the measure would be just the opposite. As the waiting periods are also due to the past decades of privatisation and public health co-financing, public health needs to be strengthened and corrected, not to the financing of private interests that have created the problem at all. The government's second action to privatize health care is an even more grave attack on public hospitals. Since they were employed with an epidemic, regular interventions could not, of course, be performed in full. For the prize, because under all the privatisation pressures still work somehow, the government takes the programmes and finances that have not yet been implemented and redirects them among individuals who have been monitoring the epidemic for the most part as observers. The third privatisation measure, however, is the removal of the working experience of responsible health care providers, which would confuse the practice of physicians of amphibians. You know, those doctors who work in a public hospital this morning, where patients are redirected to their own private clinics this afternoon. Before these responsible institutions even came into force, the government first moved them into the future, now taking their teeth. Why? Yes, so that every espa out of the previous two privatisation measures can cut off its piece of public money and make a gratuitous profit. We socialists are firmly on the side of public health and against its privatisation. That is exactly how we will vote i-against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Collegiate Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Health is one of the greatest values for people besides family, human dignity, freedom, justice and the right to work. The scale of values has not changed much in the last ten years, which means that citizens and citizens want fast, professional and quality health services. The extension of waiting species and the failure to deal with them in recent years have now led to a time when action is urgently needed. This has proved to be true in the last year of the covida-19 epidemic. Our health facilities have been over-burdened. Healthcare professionals, nurses and doctors were burdened. At the time, he further emphasized the multi-annual human resources support of our health system. In addition to the drastic lack of nurses, there was a great need for family doctors and clinical psychologists. Today's bill brings an increase in the number of clinical psychology specializations by an additional 30 clinical psychologists. Their specialisations will be funded by the Ministry of Health and calls will be made for them by the end of 2025. According to data, only – and only 21 specialists, in the spring 60 places for specialization in family medicine, the Ministry decided to include an additional 20 % increase in the hourly rate of the basic salary of the specialist for all those who will start specialising in family medicine in 2021 and 2022. Predicts on the availability of family doctors for the next five years are alarming. The conditions for retirement will meet more than 300 doctors of family medicine. In order to improve accessibility to health services at national level, the national call for tender will also be implemented by including all capacities in 2022. An important novelty is in the field of working experience for the responsible healthcare provider. The condition of additional work experience within the public network shall be deleted and the responsible institution must still meet the conditions required by the Health Act to carry out its work on its own. This also includes work experience during traineeships, secondary courses or during specialisation. This brings us across from young specialists who want to open their office because of such senseless restrictions as they flee abroad. Thus we can hope for more available specialists in our health system. We must be aware that there are approximately 130 000 citizens and citizens in Slovenia who do not have a physician selected. If we look at the possibility that some of these may not want to have a selected doctor, it is certainly at least 80,000 citizens and citizens without a selected doctor. This is an information that is worrying and requires a serious approach to solving problems in Slovenian health care. The law also provides for the possibility that health-care programmes or health-care services for which it is apparent that they will not be completed by the end of the contract year will be temporarily transferred to another operator authorised to carry out activities or have already provided the same type of private health-care services. This means that even through this reduction mechanism, all available capacities in our health system will be included. The type of health services for which the temporary transfer of the programme will be possible will be determined by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which is also a payer. Since the law is too necessary and offers the right solutions for the accumulated difficult health situation, the Members of New Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Last week we discussed the Health Emergency Act. We have exchanged many views, including very constructive ones. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 virus spread on healthcare users, health workers and health operators. Our health system has some flaws, and we can't solve them all with this intervention law. The long-standing use of the health system has led us to an absurd debate, when instead of seeking emergency solutions, and we have them on the table today, the debate will find its way again to the stories about the privatisation of public health and the breakdown of the public health network system. Unfortunately, this time it was no different. The main part of the debate was aimed at meeting the condition for the responsible health care provider, shortening waiting periods, increasing the number of specialisations in clinical psychology and encouraging the selection of specialisation in family medicine. The solutions relating to these four areas are absolutely necessary. The proposal for a law gives priority to the lack of family doctors and introduces a financial incentive in the form of a supplement to select family medicine specialisation. Doctors who have completed a professional examination and have applied for specialisation in the tender in 2021 and 2022 will be entitled to an allowance for the selection of specialisation in family medicine of 20% of the hourly rate of basic salary of the specialist. Among the more important solutions is certainly the financing of additional specialisations in clinical psychology, which we have managed to increase by 30 seats from the original expected 10 additional seats with a supplement on the parental committee. The latter has also proved necessary due to the treatment of the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, with the most vulnerable members of our society – children being placed at the forefront. It is important for any individual who urgently needs medical care to get it as soon as possible and in time. We have been addressing unreasonablely long waiting lines with various solutions for many years, and this time too. With a view to improving accessibility to health services and reducing waiting periods, the proposal for a law extends the national alert to improve accessibility to health services in 2022, which the Government may extend by decision also for the 2023 contract year. In controlling the epidemic, mayors, mayors and directors of municipal administrations and chiefs of administrative units played a key role in the implementation of government measures at local level. The same applies to school principals. All of the above target groups have been excluded from the anti-Korona packages so far. The bill therefore includes a supplement to work in a risky situation for them this time. There are also some such measures in the bill that are being extended. This is, for example, a measure to compensate workers for a certain quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour due to a higher force, due to the obligation to protect, halt public transport or close borders, the measure to implement and finance PCR and HAGT tests from the State budget, the extension of the period for the fulfilment of the education requirement for health care technicians and several other measures. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! Our society is based on a social agreement based on solidarity. The fundamental pillar of this solidarity represents accessible public health to all. The covida-19 virus, with which it fights virtually the whole world, raises this important value under question. The consequences of the pandemic have affected many sectors, particularly tourism, the economy, trade and health. To counteract these negative effects of the Coronavirus, we have before us an intervention law aimed at solving the problem in two areas, in the field of labour and health. The proposal introduces and prolongs a number of measures that make sense in the light of the situation. It addresses the recent years of declining interest in the specialisation of family medicine, provides for the financing of additional ten specialisations in clinical psychology, provides for the extension of funding for the implementation of the PCR and the rapid testing from the state budget, co-financing of the mandatory strategic reserve of personal protective equipment, prolonging the remuneration measures for workers due to a certain quarantine at home or the inability to carry out work due to a higher force. But as always, not everything is as beautiful as it seems at first sight. If we have all warned of the urgency of the extension and adoption of certain measures, we cannot claim this for a measure to extend the national call to improve access to health services in 2022. The State, local communities and concessionaires form a basic, fundamental network of the public health system. Without regulating the list of waiting types at the Ministry, without hastening to develop standards and standards that form the basis for determining the burden of individuals and work obligations in institutions, without pressure on the management of institutions to make order, hurry with the preparation of public health for gradual privatisation. The call provides for the financing of programmes for all healthcare providers, including private individuals, from our tax money, without any restrictions or conditions. The invitation to tender shall allow for the transfer of unimplemented health programmes from public institutions to private operators. Let me get back to the national call. In the SAB Group, we have re- tabled an amendment in defence of public health with the support of the LMŠ and the Social Democrats, proposing a clear order whereby, according to the capacity of the waiting period, we would first resolve in public health institutions, then with concessionaries, only with private individuals. In doing so, the latter may only participate in a limited period of time and with limited financial resources in order to avoid the breakdown of public health. The solution to the reduction of waiting species must be sought first in the context of the public network of healthcare providers, and they should first have priority in the national call for proposals. Except where the public system is unable to remedy the situation, private service providers may be allowed to participate in the tender as a marginal and time-limited measure. In the SAB, we do not want a greater share of more demanding and financially burdensome services to be left to the public health service, and private health operators will provide only easier and more profitable services. This law also grants supplements to a number of groups. I will not judge what is more justified and which is less, but the fact that they are being held accountable in an unfair manner. We have recently pointed out in the SAB the irregularities that have proved to be fishing in the mudslides of some privileged people. Let's not forget, some have received thousands of Euros of supplements, on the other hand just a few 10 Euros of supplements for second-class ones. In the SAB, we have already pointed out these irregularities with the conviction that these differences were due to the payment of allowances in percentages and not in nominal amounts, as set out in Germany and Austria. We are firmly in favour of this position, so we are pleased to support the amendment that would divide the supplements for work during the epidemic into a nominal amount. In the SAB Group, we cannot say that some measures are not good, but unfortunately, the government, with every once in a while, easily undermines everything. In the SAB Group, we will not support the proposal for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Colleague Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have another set of health laws that try to improve the health situation that seems alarming at times. In addition to all other problems affecting the health system in Slovenia, it was further affected by the epidemic. The proposal for a law on emergency measures in the field of health has been prepared by the Government and dealt with as a matter of urgency. With the law, we want to mitigate the effects of infectious covida-19 disease in the field of health and partly in the field of labour law. The aim of the law is to improve health efficiency and access to health services. Regrettably, the fact that health care is undernourished, the healthcare staff are overburdened many times, the patients are waiting too long, even unreasonablely long. All of this calls for an urgent and immediate search for solutions. Unfortunately, the forecasts aren't very good either. Unfortunately, the epidemic continues to threaten, and in view of demographic trends, we will need an even greater scale of health services, which will further increase the imbalance between available resources and health needs. By means of this intervention law, we are kind of putting out the fire, introducing some emergency measures, and there are still challenges in finding solutions to the long-term sustainable health system. We have a lot of work to do here in the future, as well as an agreement on what kind of health system we want. We believe in the Desus Group, but also history has shown that in Slovenia, despite the occasional separation in key moments, we can step together and achieve unity on key issues. If we hold back a little while from concrete solutions brought by law. Among other things, the law provides the basis for the extension of the remuneration measure for workers due to a certain quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour due to a higher force from 1 July to 31 December. It also provides an incentive for family medicine specialists. As we know, in recent years we have recorded a declining interest in specializing in family medicine, which has had a negative impact on access to primary health care. Therefore, a financial incentive is introduced to select this specialisation, amounting to 20 % of the hourly heading of the specialist’s basic salary. In view of better accessibility to health services and the desire to reduce waiting periods, the bill also provides for an extension of the national alert to improve accessibility to health services in 2022. On the home working body, we all agreed with the solution that the Ministry of Health would be able to allocate funding for health scholarships and to increase the number of additional specialisations in clinical psychology. The needs in this area are high and reflect the necessity of strengthening the network. The field of mental health has been neglected many times. It is the epidemic that has further demonstrated the entire fragility of this area. There are other solutions to the law. Among other things, it tackles the question of eligibility for crisis allowances for some previously overlooked groups, which have also been actively involved in the fight against the epidemic. As I said in the introduction, with today's law we are looking for intervention solutions within the framework of what is currently possible and will support it in the Desus Group. Furthermore, we want to actively participate in the design of reform processes that will contribute to ensuring that our health system, which, despite all things, is accessible to all and sustainable in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The colleague Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	The year-and-a-half-life epidemic has shown a number of breakdowns in the health system or highlighted even more those problems and shortcomings that have been in place for a number of years, but so far there has been no real will after their faster or more effective resolution. The law, which is now on our benches and whose main objective is to mitigate the consequences of spreading covida-19, probably comes a little late, at the threshold of the fourth wave, which we can expect at the end of this summer, after all the forecasts we hear every day. Although some of the measures that the law addresses would already be needed in the second or third wave, it is encouraging that health care for new versions of the virus is better prepared than it has been in recent months. And this is the main reason why the marriage solutions envisaged are necessary and necessary. The health system will be difficult to breathe on gills in any subsequent wave of the virus. It is also necessary to deal with the consequences of the health crisis as soon as possible, to make the system flexible and resistant to any further virus-related shocks that may or may not occur. This is also a key reason why we will not oppose the unconnected Members of the bill. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that priority should be given to addressing the lack of family doctors. The proposal includes the introduction of an additive for the selection of specialisation in family medicine, the establishment of an emergency operational centre for carrying out epidemiological investigations or the upgrading of the capacity of the NIJS epidemiological service, as well as the provision of self-testing under the conditions of prior counselling in pharmacies or specialised shops, and the establishment of a legal basis for determining new versions of the virus and identifying the spread of these. New specializations in clinical psychology are more than necessary. The law also extends some of the measures already in force, which have proved necessary in the course of implementation so far. We are talking about the financing of tests, the co-financing of mandatory strategic stocks of personal protective and protective equipment or medical equipment to extend the national call for action to improve the accessibility of health services and thus reduce waiting types. It is difficult to challenge these measures. Of course, it is also entirely doubtful whether all measures are truly interventional in nature or possibly constitute a perimeter from systemic legislation and partially address certain issues that would be addressed in a different way under normal circumstances. We also lack more concrete incentives for vaccination, which would direct people to be vaccinated. If there is no progress in this area by autumn, all the efforts so far will be reduced to a minimum, and so also by unrelated Members in this place, call on all unvaccinated citizens and citizens to trust science and expertise and to really be vaccinated in a timely manner. Notwithstanding these concerns, however, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We estimate that marriage solutions do not bring incentives that would significantly jeopardise the continued functioning of the public health system or allow its wild privatisation. Such estimates, however, are somewhat exaggerated, according to our assessment. As highlighted in the introduction, this is one of the main reasons why we will not oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Good day to all in the hall! The law's proposal by content is one of the laws governing matter, which is linked to the pardoning of the consequences of covida-19's infectious disease. The law is a reflection of the time in which we are and regulates the problems that have accumulated in healthcare for years and years and for them no one has had any hearing. The law regulates a wide range of areas that have proved to be poorly regulated at the time of this health crisis, as well as areas that have not been systematically regulated for a long time. The regulation of the field of additional specialization in clinical psychology and the addition to the selection of specialization in family medicine seem to us to be smart measures. The initiative for this type of arrangement has certainly come from young people, says the public concerned. With regard to the eligibility of the allowance for direct work with patients, we note the terrible injustice that is taking place and has taken place throughout this health crisis. Medical workers who have actually been in contact with the patient are usually nurses, nurses, a few hundred euros have been added, and doctors who have not even seen the patient have received a few thousand euros. Such differences between healthcare workers should not work, but for equal exposure all employees should receive the same wage supplement. However, we certainly do not agree with the proposal of allowances for mayors and mayors and directors of municipal administrations. It would be wise to abolish some of the provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act and thus ensure payment to the mayors. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again for your word. I think it is necessary to say first that, in fact, for two days, we have dealt with the law in question, we have done a good job combing each article individually. It is also somehow on behalf of citizens and citizens to say that in the end only one Member voted against the bill. What does it seem to me right now in this very position to say? I think it's time to put aside some kind of policy on some kind of destruction of public health and look at the fact. We have public health, respectable. We got him? Yes, we do. Do we have effective public health care or affordable public health care for all? We don't. We don't. There are thousands of people standing in line waiting for inspections or even interventions. Does it matter to people what we call the system, do they care about their turn? I think it's the last one. Why we have neglected this system for years and years, yet we keep saying how important it is that we have effective, good public health. What have we done for this system in the past decades to actually say we have excellent public health, where every patient is treated immediately? Not that children were born today when they had to be admitted to orthodontist because of such waiting periods. It is responsible that we have a human and spatial policy in our common public health care at such a level that all healthcare professionals and other staff had to work literally on the ethical drive during the epidemic. More. They have given so much of themselves that Slovenia is one of those countries that did not need the assistance of other countries. Our health care has done everything and has been able to provide for all patients. But all we're talking about here is human strength. In fact, what are we doing to be even stronger in this area? Are we doing something about it? Yeah, we're working on a change of law. I have too little time in my position to say anything that brings this proposal to the law. But I would ask that we avoid some expressions, undermine public health and introduce something new. What exactly are we instituting? We introduce that if a system, a health centre, as we call it, is not capable of carrying out an activity that should or could be carried out, it will be able to transfer to another operator. Is that bad? There are now some who are dealing with it, who is the other contractor. Look, according to the current system, if you don't come in line for these waiting periods that are too long, you have the opportunity to be treated abroad. Are we dealing with someone who will treat this patient abroad? Of course not. It doesn't matter if it's A, B, C, D. But when it comes to Slovenia and treating a patient who could be treated at home, we're dealing with whether it's a doctor A, B or C. It doesn't matter if the patient comes in line, it's important who treats him. We also have solutions that will significantly help to improve the treatment of children and adults with mental health problems, as many as 30 additional specialisations in clinical psychology. We also added a measure to improve the situation in family medicine and that people would not seek or have a personal doctor. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to go over everything in the debate that makes the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	We're talking about the legality of the procedure itself. It would be good if the National Assembly did something about this legality — 25 of us are present at the Hall, 36 of us are only registered, and we are talking about how we legally conduct procedures. It would be good, President, and if, by the end of my debate or position, there will be no more, I will request a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting until we are concluded, at least virtually, if not physically. The treatment of this law is by emergency procedure. On June 15, 2021, the government said there was no more epidemic. Although it has extended the measure, there is no epidemic as a basis for the urgency of the procedure. She reasoned that there were worse consequences, that the country would suffer damage and that I knew what else. All well and well, but the Law-Legal Service has made it very clear that if we want to have an emergency procedure, then the measures that are by emergency procedure can only be temporary in nature. In this law, however, we make decisions that are of a lasting nature, which means a systemic intervention into a law that should be dealt with in a completely different way than we are dealing with today. That's why it's all one Larry Fari I've been listening to here for an hour and 45 minutes, how we're fighting and emergency measures and what we're going to do to solve everything. The fact is that this law has some good measures, but the fact is that it can't be the reason that then the rest of the illegals can be taken in a package of how well we do for the country. Do we need clinical psychologists? Of course they do, but this does not mean that we can adopt illegal procedures in the package in stock, such as the abolition of the responsible carrier that this government wants to abolish, this coalition wants to erase. There is no problem, bring the law, the law on health care by regular procedure or at least by short procedure, in order to change only one article and have a public debate, not an urgent procedure, as you are doing today. What is important to me is, above all, what has happened today is that we should not speak or use words to end the public health system. Of course we will talk about it, and this very loudly, very clearly and with arguments. Do you know how changes are made in this government, in this coalition? They work in a subtle, slow and small way, step by step, czech, on behalf of the epidemic and on behalf of some shorter waiting periods. But when this time runs out, they will say, "Look, the thing worked, let's just keep it that way and change something else to make it better." However, as far as the bottom of the court is concerned, if this government has so far been misinterpreted and has made it very clear that it is not a matter of changing the public health system, at the last meeting of the Committee it is very frank and sincere, the government representative has made it clear that it is a system, as they imagine it should look. And she didn't even hide her desire for it. More. She argued and made a number of arguments, according to hers, that this was all a sort of unique and insane thing in Europe, not saying that no health system in Europe, any country, is equal to another system, not by way of funding, not by way of organisation, but only in the knowledge it is called a medical profession. There's so much to say in the beginning. We'll have debates for at least five hours. The fact is, and what we can say very clearly today is that illegal things in an illegal way, in the way they are done in this national assembly, with this government, with this coalition, in the LMŠ Group we will not support. Once you let this happen, you basically legalize everything, and you get it all over again, and you get always and always obvious, you know, because you've already done it, because you've already accepted it, because you've done it in this hall. And most importantly, this government will never say that she did it, they will always say, "You did it in the National Assembly." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the left-wing groups and LMŠ. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Would you like to discuss it, colleague Möderndorfer? Comrade Möderndorfer, you have the floor. We're at Article 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	We're already at Article 16. I'm not going to be in this article. I thought we were in Article 13. I'm sorry. You've moved fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SD and Left groups of Members. Does anyone want to discuss this article? Comrade Dean Jedhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We could only table amendments to those articles that are open, so perhaps the amendment to this article, because there are no other amendments, seems unusual. In general, we think that we need to prepare for an epidemic because it is possible that it will come again. We listen to data on low grafting, we see that the government also has constructive suggestions on how to prevent or react. The fact is that the new delta is spreading across Europe and it is not likely that we will be lucky that it will not be in Slovenia. Until then, it is necessary to change the current system of covid supplements, which is deeply unfair, since those who are not really in contact with sick people are also receiving these supplements. Unlike foreign countries where they receive these supplements, in particular those who work in health and social services, we share this among the public sector and eventually come to such a nonsensus that those who actually finance the state budget with their work, if you look at, say, shopkeepers who sit behind their cash registers and get nothing. Someone who is in the public sector may be doing some work and is significantly less in danger, but he gets money or a lot of money from those people who don't get anything. And as a result, last year almost 300 million were paid in Slovenia, the number is a few million lower, and for cot additives, and for each of them, in a rational Germany that is 41 times larger and immensely rich, and in fact only 100 million. I know you say it's what it is. Some things are due to signed collective agreements, and some decisions in this House, and some decisions in the government, and some of the work of responsible people, but what needs to be said is that what is being paid is not what helps the poorest, it is not money to help people who have lost their jobs, it is not money to help those who are sick and are at home or in contact with the sick and are at home, it is money for public servants, as well as in Germany and elsewhere, and that money is being paid, which is not and is owed to children, grandchildren and grandchildren. We, when we were thinking about how to work things out, came up with one possible model. But there's probably a million others. And those who are in contact with the sick are doing such work, this should be linked to health and social welfare. It doesn't matter if it's a server or anything. This segregation should be stopped immediately. In most countries, it does not occur to them that two people are with the sick, both of them are equally threatened, but we value one of his lives and his health a few ten euros, and the other with a few thousand euros. I hope you understand why this system is so unfair. And I don't want to hear these standard answers, you know, and the collective agreements and the legislation and stuff. We're in this national council, something's changing all the time, there's some omnibus going on all the time, and now we need to get ready for the fall. Our proposal is that if you're in contact with a sick person and you have to work with him, you have the same allowance, and that's 400 euros. This is a possible system which, by the way, is three times more generous than the current system in Germany, and would nevertheless significantly protect the state cash register than the current system. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Comrade Soniboy Prince has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll continue where he ended up in front of me. During this year, the Social Democrats have twice proposed a bill on the award of health workers, which went in the direction of what, after all, the Minister's conclusion that the funds allocated to those who worked under these conditions were paid to all on average — those who were in these situations where it was unfair to those who did not have any data due to covid. I'm sorry we're out of two votes. But our proposal is, as colleague Židan explained today, the additions also in the collective contract for the public sector, even after the Commission's interpretation of the collective agreement, are defined for those working under these exceptional conditions. This is what we had in this country's time a regulated system of Bennification. You could have gotten it if you worked six months a year in these conditions. And that's perfectly logical. That we have destroyed 600 million taxpayers' money, it seems to me that this is a place of public money. I also asked the Minister what he thought to do about it and he replied to me that he had requested all public institutions to prepare a report by the end of the year on the use of these funds. So it seems to me that the proposal we have put forward today is significantly more just, and I hope that we will get support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. My friend Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Look, let's be very real. We spent 600 million on covid supplements. I would have believed that in the first three months when we were all hunting, when we didn't know what it would be like to start with this system, I would have understood that. But that one Slovenia, which has 2 million people, spends 600 million, Germany, which is 41 times larger, and spends about 340 million on covid supplements. Well, that's absurd! That's absurd. And now we have to stop this. I know it's nice to talk, the public sector will get that money and they'll get the money, but - where are we gonna get that money? Yeah, we borrow from day to day to get some extras, and I apologize, but they work from home. So what happened now? The public sector would like to continue to work from home. We're not gonna get them back to work. Of course it's nice to be home a little bit, in the day a little bit around to walk around, at night write a couple of sentences and work from home, and get a covid supplement. We have to stop it. All together. Today we will give the mayors an allowance of 200 euros a month. I agree that the mayors did a lot of work this month and a half. They had a lot of work to do, they ran civil protection and so on, but we have another way to reward these mayors. These mayors are basically underpaid. What are they gonna think now? At 600 million people will think that we Members have won something. No, no. Our first three months were further reduced by 30%. And we're throwing 600 million dollars for covid supplements. X person received covid supplement, and in life she has not seen any covid of the patient. But if you could see, the secretary of state, if you could see how much money some people have, even 15 thousand euros a month, so that, yes, you know, it's gross for the net, and that's absurd. Secretary of State, what was your salary? Did you have any covid supplements? None. And you work all the time. So read again this well-meaning amendment of ours so that everyone gets 400 euros. That server, the doctor, the nurse, the ambulance driver, everyone who's got contact with the cobbler. Absolutely everyone has to get 400 euros, plus their salary. But not to get people around the office covid supplement. But as long as it went down to 100 million, we were all quiet. Now it's 600 million. And let another crisis come in September, October, November – will we give another 150 million to keep the public sector working from home? Let's all put something together for this country, please, do it! I know it's popular now, of course they're not gonna say anything, great, we're getting money. But what's too much is too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I see that there is still some interest in the debate, so that I will initiate an application to the list of discussers. Please sign up. This is an amendment to Article 19. The word is from a colleague of Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, in this discussion of predecessors, there was also resentment about how people sitting in offices receive supplements. This Article also refers to the supplement to be received by the Directors and Directors of Education Institutions. You need to remember, or all of us together, how much we praised last year and also this year the teachers who conducted the school year with a distance lesson. The results of the national knowledge check also show that the year was successful despite the unusual form of learning. The results of the professional prom are promising really good results. So we also need to know that all the efforts of teachers, as they were, would not have been as successful if their work had not been organised by the principals. All thanks to them, this year went very well. Congratulations, dear principals and principals, you deserve this allowance! Not only that, but also because you organized a food collection in your schools, so that they could go to lunch for the whole family who had been absent from the children’s education without this diet. In particular, it's a vulnerable layer of people, people with fewer livelihoods. All of this was arranged by the principal. Not just that. It is also a matter of offering constant assistance to parents of children who at times were also in distress either because of teaching or because of social circumstances, because they were lonely, had no peer company, or had different social difficulties. These people have played a very important role. She's more secretive, but very active. That's why I don't think we should be too complicated about this here. When there was a comparison between Germany and Slovenia before, see Slovenia is much more successful in some parts than Germany. We received a replacement for closing sports clubs with PKP packages right away while waiting there from last November until the end of April, and this time they could, I don't know, what they were living on. The number of bankruptcys of small entrepreneurs was due to this in Germany, and unemployment is lower today than it was in 2019. And there's one more thing. The supplements that people will receive under this Article will eventually always turn into a service, to buy some material that will pass on additional VAT and in some ways return VAT to the state treasury. I think that here we should speak with all due respect about people who have been extremely concerned, and every word against this suggests a considerable ignorance of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Mrs. Boxer, you've got me all wrong. I, for those of you who have worked in these difficult situations and have cooperated in solving this problem of covid, should absolutely get it. But let's be honest, what the government has accepted or accepted, is, thank God, that's why we have these results. But what's too much is too much. Mrs. Shriner, do you know that in the ministries people get covid supplements? Did you get any, and you go to work every day? I'm just saying that the system is wrong, that we have to stop and distribute it fairly. The one who really deserved to get it because of me, I don't know, 10,000 euros that saved my life or I don't know what. But those who sit at the Ministry, forgive those who do not accept any party, do not come to any meeting. These were the answers if you called them: “Yes, there is no meeting.” [[…]] But covid got the supplement. I just want to be realistic, I want to say it. Thank you. Beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Yes, of course, a fellow boxer spoke only one part of the story, but she did not tell the other side of the story. I could sign under what my colleague, Shriner, said if I said the whole thing out loud. No one challenges people to get supplements that they worked with people at the time of the epidemic, as they did in other normal countries. But this government has not reached the decision of the collective agreement in one year of the outbreak of the intervention law, where we share the impossible amounts by percentage. No matter what they were doing, there were absurd differences. Let's go in one order. At the Ministry of Health, because, by chance, the secretary of state is here with us, and we're going to talk about facts, not some delusional stories. The secretary of state didn't get the kind of supplements she's told and written in the newspaper. I'm sure you don't. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health has certainly been involved in procedures where he should simply be credited with an allowance on a daily basis and for more than eight hours. And he didn't get it. A reference at the same ministry received an additional EUR ten thousand per month. That's what I'm talking about. Ten thousand euros. Don't talk to me about how people deserve it. Now go take a look at the University Clinical Center. Who was the most violent shot there? Who was the most exposed? Yeah, from group J, among others. Did they get the supplement? No, we talked on the board that they haven't even got it yet. I'm not talking about supplements in general right now, I'm talking about percentages. This amendment says something else, Mrs. Boxer. He says it turns into a nominal amount of EUR 400. That's what we're talking about. Not that they won't get the supplement, but that everyone gets the same. Now for the fact. But the fact is, if we talk, someone who's paid for their job gets paid, the epidemic goes down, he gets paid anyway. But since it's an epidemic, he gets a supplement. And I don't know why he has to get an education allowance instead of an epidemic. Let's talk about it. Nobody says these people don't deserve an allowance. Only no one will convince me that the doctor who spent 450 hours paying him justly because we gave him so much and so much that he finally earned 25,000 euros and more. But we all know that 450 hours a month is impossible, and it's impossible to do that, because that means he slept in the middle. Did we pay him to sleep? Don't talk to me! This is bullshit, and we need to talk about this out loud for once. So your tunes, Mrs Škrynjarova, about how everyone deserves and how great this is, look, tell this to someone else during the elections when you run for what you've done for them. Here in the National Assembly, we are talking about a law that is of an intervention nature that will help and solve certain things. It's unfair again. That's what we're talking about. Has the government done anything to reach out to the collective bargain? Last time I was on TV, I was listening to a big unionist defend the interests of doctors. Great, thank God, I don't mind. But when asked, “Is it fair to receive by percentage and not by nominal amount?” What was his answer: “This is what it says, this is not what I invented.” Who's the one who has to act now? Yes, Government. But the government didn't do anything. And I'll tell you why not. Because of one argument, which I said in my position, because it is a subtle change in the health system, and it is a public one. Why? For a year, doctors, medical staff, were paid significantly higher salaries. After one year, will they want to get on the old payroll? They won't. Which means we're gonna take him out of the payment system. If we remove it from the payment system, what you've been doing in secret all year long will happen if you start changing certain conditions. And I'm waiting for the moment you come in with the law, where we'll find out that we don't have the public health system anymore. These are these small steps, subtle ones that you do systematically, planally, with a clear goal – to change the system. Finally, we will have access to the health system only through the helmet insurance of ourselves, not the car, where the rights paid by health insurance companies will be very interestingly defined. This is, of course, a disaster approaching us. I therefore caution that this law must not be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Colleague Boxer, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, I don't know where you're getting your ideas. I wouldn't mind if I did, either. Maybe you have these ideas in the background just in case, we don't have them. Let me just say this, the education allowance, you say, the nominal amount or percentage. On the first ball, your proposal seems better, but when you take two different professions. There's a cleaning lady in school who needs to clean up for students who may be infected, and it's a high risk. And he's a school psychologist who has to deal with the problem of a student and a student. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Colleague Boxer, that's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	That's not a replica, I'm saying you weren't misunderstood, but you're debating. So I suggest you sign up for the debate, and you can say it all over again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Okay, I'll sign up for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Okay. My colleague Mojca Žnidarič. Then we will re-accept the applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. About this amendment. The amendment that we are discussing speaks exclusively of an allowance for directors' salaries in the public sector, in the field of education and education. Now we're not going to save the medical supplies with this amendment. We can agree, but as far as I know, no opposition party in previous PKP packages has tabled any amendments in order to be nominal and not tied to a percentage. Indeed, this comparison, as Mr Židan said, how much Germany has paid, how worrying Slovenia is. But here I would like to point out that this government or we here in the National Assembly did not accept this 65% supplement, which belongs to everyone under the collective agreement. This is what the unions negotiated, I don't know which year ago, and it automatically belongs to all employees of this supplement, which is actually the highest, 65%. That's not what the government gave us. We gave a 30% allowance to work with covid patients and another 20% if someone was reassigned from one unit to another. So I don't really know if we can intervene, but it's not really the subject of this amendment that we're talking about right now. We can agree that they were overpaid. But now let me go into battle with the union of this government, when you've already challenged us all else. I still think it's a delusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Dejan Jedan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Although the Member State has said it well, it is as if she did not hear what I said at the outset. I made it very clear. In the coalition, you voted against most of our amendments anyway. And today we can only amend articles that are open. Is that clear? This article is the one that remained open. And we've tabled an amendment again to this article, and we can't do the rest because you voted against it. What we're saying is that the current system is wrong. We also want to say the basics of the new system, and this is the system, as it was introduced in most other countries when you care for the patient's co-vid, is at that moment also threatened to some extent by your health. If you are paying the server a different covid supplement than Professor Dr. Science, you have agreed to a different evaluation of the individual’s life, which is unacceptable, unethical, and immoral. That is why I am also saying that in this article, which is the only one left open, we are simply asking that the system of additives be improved as soon as possible, because the epidemic is ahead of us. Take a look at today's data and compare it to last week's. We ask this very politely. Again and again, although it is likely that more than 600 million have been paid, an average of 64 million has been paid per month while the epidemic occurred, this is the response of the ministry or government. So it's probably more than 600 million. But what happened was, this is what our kids are gonna have to pay back. But that was it. What's going to happen, but it's possible to change now. With this concrete amendment, once again, we are essentially just addressing the problem and warning that broader things need to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I will re-launch my application to the list of discussers. The application shall be made. My colleague Carmen Furman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that, President. In view of the content of the debate, I had to make a call, as there were many shortcomings in previous discussions. First of all, we need to know that we currently have five types of covid supplements that are being paid. Of these five types of covid supplements are four of those introduced by intervention legislation. But those who were previously introduced by intervention legislation only belong to those public servants who work in the field of health or social protection and work with patients who are suspected of being infected or infected. This has been accepted in previous PKP packages. What you're talking about is a collective contract for the public sector. We all know that a collective agreement cannot be corrected by law. I hope my fellow Jew and Möderndorfer are aware of this. I exactly wrote myself a quote, Comrade Möderndorfer, when you said that the government had not so far reached the content of the collective agreement with the law. Yeah, thank God it's not, it's against the law. The hierarchy of legal acts, I hope we all know it, after all, we are the legislative body here. And the collective agreement is being coordinated in the context of social dialogue. The collective contract for the public sector is signed by representative unions, the corona as such has been adopted more than 20 years ago, and this is the subject of these payments of 65% of the hourly item referred to in Article 11, paragraph 11, paragraph 39, which you are talking about today. I would ask that you do not deceive here with the content of your discussions, because the Government, as such by law, must not interfere with the collective agreement, but we know what the process of amending the collective agreement is. It's not from today to tomorrow. What is now being paid and which has been put forward in the position, in particular by the Member of the Jews, is the subject and subject of a collective contract for the public sector, which has been in force for more than 20 years. If this had not been paid, the right which was then negotiated for public servants would have been unlawfully violated. The content of the law must not change legally, it can only be improved and the rights already acquired must not be worsened. However, in order to change the collective agreement, we know that this is a long-term process involving social dialogue with all representative unions, and I think that more than 20 of them signed under the collective agreement, because I have now gone to a quick look at the Official Gazette, is a process that takes time. This is what is the subject of your amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Chairman. Essential things have already been said by colleague Carmen, but there are some things I would warn you not to be misled. A fellow Jew said that they had tabled these amendments to Article 19 because the other articles had been closed on the subject. That's not true. You have also tabled such an amendment on your parent’s working body and other articles without being closed, but these topics are not being discussed at all. We did not discuss the supplements brought by the CAP or to discuss other solutions to this specific law regarding the supplements brought by the CAP, but we did warn that in this work individuals have made a lot of effort and helped to carry out activities such as education and education, because things have been difficult and much additional effort has been needed. As far as these supplements are concerned, these are the only articles we've discussed. He used to say to his colleague Han that we should do the same thing by making health workers and those who received these supplements in the field of health. This is not the subject of this amendment. The amendment speaks of a lump sum, while the basis of the marriage is slightly different. Again, this needs to be stressed in some way because of citizens and citizens. True, we have distributed quite a bit of money in terms of measures, as far as the fight against covid is concerned. We have helped individuals and businesses to maintain the system. It turns out we've been taking good action. The fact is that this data is known and that this low unemployment is really talking about how we have also managed to save a wide range of jobs by means of measures, and this is more important in the final stage. We may also have taken action to make sure that our system survived. You have to be on this bumper, when you throw money, and so on, just be careful. Of course, if we ask citizens on the ground, I don't know, because we probably talk to similar people or not, everyone says that the government has given people here, but it hasn't given for example to some banks, even private banks, that private banks and those directors should have been saved if the rule of law was really what they were supposed to be, where they were already sitting. But let's just leave it. The fact is that the 65% supplement comes from a collective agreement with the unions and we cannot cut it this way, not by law at all. If they really did do something like that, then it would be just bad. Then what would we do? As of now, the unions are somehow saying with your support on the streets that they're being wronged. Can you imagine this government reaching into a collective agreement? Probably not. And it's just one populism reception from your side, so I'm the amendment you're proposing on the board and now I'm not going to support. Once again, as regards the PKP supplements, these were clear, they were intended for those who work with obtuse patients or in an environment where covid is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	A fellow Jew, a replica. But I ask you to tell me where you were misunderstood, so that we will follow the rules of procedure regarding the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	That's right. Madam Members said one article, but in fact the two articles allowed the law that came to the National Assembly to deal with covid supplements to warn that the current system is deeply unjust [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	But where were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Both articles – not just one, because the Member State spoke of only one. We tabled both articles on the amendment committee [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Comrade Jew, look, it's not a replica. I'm asking you to sign up. Four more have to discuss, and then you explain what you think is absolutely necessary. Everyone has a chance. This is why we have these rules so that the order of the debaters does not skip. My colleague Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that I will not support the amendment to Article 19 that we are talking about. Quite specifically on the content, colleague Carmen explained as well as possible why we do not support this amendment. In the debate of my colleagues, I have heard that no one is willing to give in to people who have worked with covid patients and are entitled to an allowance. I'm sure he does, and then he doesn't try to fool people with different flossules here in the National Assembly. One of these deceptions was already in some of the debates before it was said that they could discuss and only one article was open in this law so that opposition groups could table amendments. But look, this is a lie, a complete lie. We have also received the amendment to Article 26. So it's not true, someone's cheating or lying. I don't know how else to say it. When someone claims that only one article is open. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, is that I ask you to explain to me what article of this law is the intention to bring down the public health system. This was said to be done in steps. In this marriage that I have read, I have not observed anything about what has been said. If this is not a deception, if this is not a lie, if this is not a manipulation of people, and this coalition as a whole, it is a 100% advocate of the public health system. [[…]] I think that this coalition has done the most to maintain the public health system. They come into the line of investment in the health system, which has not been in the last 25 years or 20 years, were practically zero or something. Now substantial funds are invested in this, and this is in the public health network. How, then, can someone here in such a manipulative way try to harass and mislead our citizens and citizens and say that we are trying to disrupt the public health system by means of this law. It's amazing what people here in our National Assembly enjoy. What lies, what manipulations! And it makes sense that people are confused. Our citizens and our citizens are confused. If you repeat the truth ten times, it becomes a lie. I am confident and I hope that all of us who sit in this national assembly, regardless of political affiliation, work, care and fight to help people live easier. And everything we're doing with this legislation, believe me, we're only working for this one purpose. So I ask that when we discuss, let us stay in fact, let us not mislead people in these already tense circumstances and rather abstain. I will tell all the debaters in front of me again, no matter who the political party is, please, if we say what we think is no problem, but let us not deceive, manipulate or lie. Let us not do this in the National Assembly, for it is not fair, nor is it beautiful, extremely perverse and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Procedurally, colleague Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Mr President, I must say that I am a little confused right now, given the predecessor's debate. In the general debate today, there is no more talk about the law, since the first article, which was opened, was usually a parliamentary practice to speak in broad terms. We are now at Article 19, where the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and the Left speaks of the nominal amount of covid supplement. I didn't see that in the previous debate. That is why I would ask you to tell me whether we are in Article 19 or we can speak in broad terms, because otherwise I will also apply and talk about investments and everything else, which is part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal is in place. We are at Article 19 and I call on all Members and Members to stick to the debate on this Article. Replica, colleague Dejan Jedan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	She'll be brief and polite at the same time. Article 26 does not allow discussion of the pay system and covid allowances, because it speaks of people who are sick and at home. This would only allow for paragraph 39, which is closed because the amendment was not adopted on the Committee. Thus, we could not put an amendment to Article 39, so only a proposal for a new model was tabled at Article 19 where there would no longer be a difference between a server and a doctor of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. When we sit in this beautiful, pleasant summer day in a pleasant air - conditioned hall, perhaps those who have ever experienced less than those who have not had it do not recall well the gratitude we have ever felt when we received the medical services we needed. This awareness of this responsible work then slowly fades away when the memory of the problem fades. But you should remember that. I'm talking about when you said that the nominal amount is all the same, appropriate and that percentages, especially for education, are not appropriate. See, I am sure, and probably everyone in this Chamber, that every citizen and every citizen of Slovenia must earn enough to live a decent life and that there must be no poverty; this is certainly what we all agree on. At the same time, I can also say that there is a need for a wage difference, which also stems from a collective agreement which has been created by the social partners for a very long time and which will be co-created and modified, but by the procedure that is being followed. If I look at myself now in a role where I feel less responsible, or in cleaning up areas in a building, say school, or in advising a child with problems, I would probably need not only a higher education for the latter, but also a greater responsibility. You can do terrible damage if you work in an area that requires a lot of knowledge, but you don't have that knowledge and you don't use it, so the collective agreement is so focused. Maybe there are better solutions. Right now, I don't think anyone has a better solution if we want to evaluate responsibility and if we want people to still want to do a job that requires a lot of responsibility. And this is also an example for doctors. It's a huge responsibility, it's a huge amount of time they devote to patients, and practically they have no privacy left, and they have to pay a lot of money to manage their private lives, their households, and so on. Collective agreements are very old in many areas, both in health, education and other areas. They were complemented, we know that additions are also needed, and the pay system, which was adopted in 2008 after years of effort, is in fact already quite perplexed today. With one law alone, it's impossible to fix. I think it will take a few years of efforts by all social partners to reach as many, I would say, more modern solutions. At this point in time, people who have devoted a great deal of their time, energy, and responsibility, have suffered a lot of stress, should be given this supplement. However, the direction of the Government, in the future, needs to be prepared new conditions for the implementation of collective agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	I will mainly discuss that part of the two Members, the rest has been depressed, there is no point in even discussing when it has been obvious to me that there is a need to know the hierarchy of legal acts and as far as the additions themselves are concerned. The hierarchy of legal acts is more or less clear and here what very special warm water is not to be detected. But what I'm reading to you, and what I've said very clearly, I'm going to be even more clear now. From the first day of the outbreak, it was damn clear to the government what it meant when the article in the collective agreement was launched, which referred to a 65% supplement. When this collective agreement, and here you are right, 20 years ago you introduced, you are no one, but no one on the side of one and the other partners imagined that this article would ever be activated in such a way and for as long in a dimension as no one has today. This is recognised in the union, we also find this in the government and also in Parliament and not least in the Slovenian public itself. From the first day until today, when there was no discussion and debate on this injustice of granting this supplement, did you open up a social dialogue, have a sincere intention to do something and agree? I believe that we could agree with the social partners, because this will not work forever, and you know it. Here comes the fourth wave, we've already given the first, second, third through, now it's the fourth. Is it going to be the fifth, the sixth? What dimensions this is going to go into, I don't know. But I know something that we're just going to tear this society apart into three or four parts. These are facts, and these are consequences, and this is where the government should act. And that's all we're talking about, nothing else. In a time of emergency, when the President of the Government sat there and initially threatened us all together, there is even a possibility that even the National Assembly would not be able to function and threatened to cut down on specific measures. In times of emergency and financial insolence, where this brings us all together, forgive me, the government must do one or the other. We want this, we are aware that partial regulation on individual articles, with individual groups, absolutely leads to even greater absurdity. But not to do anything, and that actually allows us to open up a debate about what an addition is. And she's right to point out to a colleague when she says we have multiple types of covid supplements. Some have even stopped with the end of the epidemic, except in the area of health care, some of whom have been designated by the Government, while others are the highest amount and the highest amount of work. That's the facts. About the education and the supplements. We have a salary that is made up in the public sector so that everyone is classified in their class, where their education is taken into account, the difference plus the minus two classes based on the class can be classified as classes, rather than the minus to be understood. But then we have different supplements, or we have different supplements, and I'll say, certain extensions, which are an integral part of the salary, and we have overtime, and we have a previous job, and we have an on-call schedule, and we have what I know, and we have a lunch and so on. Indeed, the appendix to the crisis cannot be linked to education, because both of them are strong and doctors, on purpose I expose only these two, most extreme after education, the most distant one from each other, both engaged equally in the epidemic, exactly the same. And an epidemic supplement isn't because someone has an education, it's because someone is involved in an epidemic in these measures. And that's this fundamental difference and misunderstanding that we're talking about. Therefore, this cannot be as a percentage because it shows inequality. 65% on salary, let's say the net is that the Slovenian public will understand more more, someone who receives 2 000 500 or 2 000 800 euros, 65% plus, is one for someone who gets only 600 or 700 euros, 65% plus, and it's another. And figure out what that difference means. But they're both at risk, they're both exposed to the virus, and they're finally risking their family and everyone else getting sick. But what was done as a pig with fur with these supplements and participations throughout the process for one and a half years is a discussion that we will have to open and discuss once and for all. So today, mixing pears and apples and talking about education, and how much someone is involved, I'm going to be very specific so that we don't move. One cook who made food during the covida's time did a lot of things, you said. Of course, the principal who co-organized this event did much too. One psychologist who worked during the epidemic with a child to help him out of individual distresses, too. But all three of them should get the same supplement, not the pay – the extra covid, because they were equally involved in the epidemic. That's all I'm talking about, this justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Replica, colleague Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, you misunderstood me. I link education to responsibility. The responsibility of the profession and the responsibility of the actions required by this profession. And there are undoubtedly different responsibilities and different actions and risks involved. To find out exactly the difference between this and that part, we probably don't have enough data or enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you, President. Look, from today's debate it is clear enough that we have come to this law with the proposed measures, and this is a strong, we have come to a close. A large part of the measures relate to the award at the time of the co-vid, and then we find that some workers in this area have even been released, while others are shamelessly highly rewarded, including those who in the epidemic with co-vid had virtually no contact with patients. And this law does not in any way save, in its own way, the dissatisfaction among the workers, among the people, and even among us, as is well heard today. And that's the obvious that we're basically reading to the government, that it's spending irrationally, that it's in charge of our country, that it's making a hole in the budget, and it's transferring debt to craftsmen. Look, on the other hand, I miss the measures that would solve this health care, the public health system, where the problems were before the epidemic, not until today at the time of the epidemic, when they became very deep. There is this problem that this law should carry to a much greater extent. See, health services have been provided to a reduced extent or have not been implemented in certain areas at all. Patients were not considered because this was prevented by measures, government measures. And we know that some countries have just taken steps to get people to a doctor. Well, there were also bright exceptions for us, where individual health teams and individual health workers have done everything they can to treat patients, and today there are no waiting types in this area. We should reward this kind of health care today. That would be that bright spot, an example to the others. This should bring motivation to the employees and satisfaction to the patient. How good the debates could be today in this National Assembly if we approach the matter this way. And we don't have such good practices. I've noticed that even the patients in the polls themselves have rewarded those who stand side by side at this time. We don't know that, and we don't know how to talk about that. Where can we find measures in this law that would better benefit from the existing public health system? Where is the approach to establishing an organisational network of health care across regions? Where are the standards and standards? Where is the current capacity map of the personnel, after medical equipment, of the key apparatus? We don't have them, we still don't. We need to make good use of the existing system, as is done in the economy, so that you can stay on the market, so that you can be competitive and cost-effective, of course. Of course, the supplements are necessary. Health professionals deserve them, as well as other technical services, which are in direct contact with covid patients or directly with infected equipment and materials to work with. This system should be set up in a fair, stimulating manner as a high value for the work done. Today, however, we find that this part of the measures separates healthcare workers and also people in general. And once again, it's very hard to fix what we've cooked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it with Article 26? My friend Jani Möderndorfer has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Here, in this article, which we have tabled during the meeting itself, we really just wanted to meet the requirements, because you know that the law has been introduced by emergency procedure and there has actually been no public debate. In fact, this difference between a 100 % replacement salary and an 80 % replacement salary is made depending on whether you are infected or not in the workplace. You know it's extremely difficult to figure out where this infection actually came from. Especially if we find that employers also do not want to confirm and acknowledge because they indirectly acknowledge that they may have poor supervision, poor review or even poor working conditions, I speak in terms of safety against possible infection. In this article, we are essentially giving an opportunity, whether it is infected outside the work process or in the work process, to equalise that percentage. This is our proposal, because in this way we will be significantly more effective in the elimination of individuals, while protecting everyone else in the process itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendments to Articles 36 and 38. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 36 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 38, we will discuss both amendments to these articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 36 and 38 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so we'll start applying. There's five reported. First he gets the word Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In the law before us, it is once again a matter of inadequate legal solutions, to which our Legal and Legislative Service has consistently warned, from the absence of democratic and, above all, useful public debates and professional debates, to the fragmentation of regulation, duplication of content, accumulation of certain measures in several intervention laws and the frequency of their amendment, which, of course, affects the transparency and clarity of legal regulation. The situation in Slovenian health is actually getting worse and there is a need for action, which we can all agree on, but not so. On the other hand, the situation is not as catastrophic as it is trying to show those who advocate privatisation now and all the years ago. Privatization is not the solution. This covida-19 crisis throughout the world has clearly demonstrated that only public health is capable of solving such crises. Health care is sensitive and we are also talking about the specific meaning of health care. Under Article 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, everyone has the right to health care from public funds under the conditions laid down by law. That the subject is sensitive also shows the present rather pathetic debate in the National Assembly. So that we will not only speak patheticly, populistally and thinking about our health care, let's take Benchmarking comparisons, the Euro Health Consumer Index, is a European independent institution measuring the quality of health in 36 countries in Europe. Slovenia was in the upper half of the year, in 2017 it was in the 16th place. Now we have been overtaken by the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia. For orientation, Austria is in 9th place when we always like to take it as an example. I say that this is also due to the fact that we are giving less to healthcare every year, less than 8% in recent years. Europe gives close to 10%, and the United States, which has very high private health coverage, even 17%. Nevertheless, Slovenia, when we talk about how catastrophic health is, is reported by the OECD over the United States. Interesting. So it's not all about money, I'd say, like a song. After all, this information is understandable for the United States, because capital, if we do a private matter, follows profits, not public health. However, I am afraid that this law indicates that the Government is not in favour of effective public health, which would be accessible to all under the same conditions, but on the path of gradual privatisation, which is set out in the national call for reduction of waiting lines, which provides for public funding to all health providers, including private, without concession, since concessionaires are part of public health, without any criteria or restrictions. We have therefore put this amendment in the party to Article 38, where we have proposed a cascade system. The waiting periods are supposed to be resolved first by public health institutions and concessionaries, which are part of the system that is set up and owned by the country, owned by all of us and we must support it, only then by private individuals who have decided on this area. But it can only be for a short time and with limited financial resources. Therefore, we must first seek a solution to reduce waiting species within the public network of healthcare providers. These should take precedence over the national invitation to tender, except where the public system is unable to remedy the situation, and as a time-limited measure the possibility of private health service providers being included in the tender may be allowed. In the SAB, we do not want a greater share of more demanding and financially burdensome services to be left to public health institutions, and private operators will only manage easier services with greater financial impact. For SAB, the right direction is more than clear, this is effective public health. That is why we have also supported Minister Poklukar on his candidacy, who, on the Committee on Health, said publicly and loudly that he opposes the privatisation of public health and that the borders between public and private should be clearly set and that he has unlocked the health of amphibians. Although the law solves some of the problems before us, I welcome, and there is no way that doctors and health workers will be able to bring appropriate organisational, humane and wage policies and effective public health for citizens and citizens, accessible to all under the same conditions without long waiting lines. Finally, I would look back at the award. Today, I have heard several times that awarding is supposed to solve the problem. This is kind of very present among us Members to arrange the award in health and everything will be fine. In fact, it's just a naked political footnote. It never worked, and it never will. Today, it is clear to all successful and effective organizers of the work process around the world that only a hygienic is paid, and certainly not a motivator. There's a condition, and there's no way it's enough. Mistaken and extremely underestimating thinking is that a person is just an economic being, like an automatic machine, more than money in it, more coffee, juice, or whatever. That's not how it works. We are very focused on cooperation and work together, although this is not reflected today. Work performance does not provide pay, but much more teamwork, good cooperation and a sense of belonging and importance, justice and morality. We still have a thought of a root and a stick. I repeat, it is quite the opposite. Thus science and practice prove that actual motivations that drive and inspire good work are common achievements and recognition of these achievements, responsibility and personal challenge at work. Not some raise crying. Every salary increase has a very short-term effect, then only the following. Let us take this into account, even when we think about these public institutions, about our health. Some reward after work, if we look at the fact that doctors are underpaid, has recently been outside this information that 90 of the 100 most paid employees are doctors. This is also evidence of a study in England, which showed that health care has once again made it public that wages have doubled, and this has not in any way reduced the dissatisfaction and nervousness of the system, nor has it increased the effectiveness of health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Alenka Forte, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Since this article is a national call for improved accessibility, only Members would have read Article 44c of the Health and Insurance Act, which reads: “The insured person has the right to reimbursement, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2011/24/EU, of the costs of health services which are the right from compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Slovenia and which are exercised in another Member State of the European Union, on the basis of a previously issued contract by a selected personal physician or a travel doctor in the Republic of Slovenia to hospital and specialist ambulance services.” You know that Slovenia has been dealing with problems of accessibility to health services for a very long time, so it has also been an attempt to resolve better accessibility through the call for one-off additional programmes. Thus, according to data from the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance in 2016, such programmes were implemented in 74%, similar in the following years, in 2017 and 2018, when a total of EUR 36 million was provided, interventions and operations amounting only to EUR 8 million 149 000 were carried out. So it's only 25%. This means that the State has provided the money and that operators have failed to implement all the allocated programme for any reason. This waiting list for patients who can be provided because they wait too long on the list for various operations and interventions is above the acceptable waiting period of over 50,000. Among them are 17 thousand 664 of them, who also have a definitive diagnosis and are still waiting for a final service, i.e. an appropriate medical procedure, an operation. Among them are those who wait two or more years. An example that has an enormous impact on the quality of life, inserting hip and knee prosthesis, not to mention everyone. This is a lot of operations that are needed on the venous caverns, from the operations of the ankle and foot, to the operations of the grey darkening, veins. Please agree that the services are the ones our insurers need. It's a service that's done to anyone who's qualified. But since we are faced with the fact that all Slovenian contractors, despite the efforts made by all the funds provided for the implementation of these programmes over the past years, have not been able to meet the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to include all those who are capable. The law, which I quoted at the outset, allows all of our patients to rumble across the border to the east, west and north to meet these needs. Is it not more appropriate in the light of the concern for citizens to allow in Slovenia all the performers who can do this work for our patients? This isn't about any privatisation. I would point out once again Article 44c, as I have read it, and I ask that in this spirit we are aware that we are working for the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Member Željko Cigler gets the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable and respected, Madam Secretary of State. In Levica, we note that the proposal for a law on emergency health measures for systemic changes, which is very harmful to the existing public health system in Slovenia, is practically deregulation and dismantling of this system, I will tell you where, under Article 36, and that such changes pose a practical threat to the users of health services if I use the term used in previous discussions by one of my colleagues. This is especially important because such major changes are taking place. This is what we want to point out today, and we point out in practice only the opposition Members and Members, that there is also a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum in this law, or that people make themselves clear whether they agree that such an important existential, if I may say so, is changing the system in our country without asking people. Surely, waiting species will not be reduced in such a way that we virtually prevent people from being able to afford a doctor. More resources when they leave the public health system in particular to private individuals. and when we go from article to article, we can see that this is the way money will follow the private operator and less the user. I will only say this when you said that where health services are not available in Slovenia, such help can be sought abroad to ensure that dentists are sufficient in Slovenia. Unfortunately, not in the public health system, and as a result, there are longer species. But unfortunately, most of this health insurance doesn't pay our patients and patients back at Croatian dental clinics. That's where he's taking it. We're very well-occupied with personnel. We have equipment, we have buildings and so on, we have funding for the health system, but more and more health services will then have to find citizens and citizens who will have resources abroad. This national call, which is proposed by the proposed amendments to Article 36 to simply delete, this national call proposed by the Government is intended to improve accessibility to health services and reduce waiting periods resulting from the failure to implement the programme during the covid epidemic. Although we are aware that these waiting species were already ahead of the cove, there were many long critical lengths of time. The call is problematic in a number of aspects, and above all the question is whether this government is capable of implementing it. The call was also planned in 2020, but no call was made. However, it is crucial that the funds from this call will be drawn from supplementary health insurance and from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is money which, in some way, depends on who the contractor, in particular the private sector, is going to go to private water. Initially, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Health does not have current information on waiting periods. This is evident from the website of the National Institute for Public Health, as already stated by Members and Members on the Committee on Health. So that such a national call cannot be directly linked to the covida-19 epidemic, because you need data from the Ministry to act. In addition, during and after the epidemic, accessibility to primary health has proved to be a major concern. The national invitation to tender shall, however, focus on specialised services. We can expect one uncontrolled spill of public funds to the private sector, which is not too much to mention that in the area of purchasing major private operators of health care, insurance company Triglav and Sava Re have recently been heavily activated. That I won't speak in vain. Where does this money come from so that these insurance companies can afford these purchases, from which they expect profits if the state calls for such public tenders? In 2019, private insurance companies in the form of supplementary insurance collected EUR 612 million, paid to health care by 514, the difference minus 98 million. It is true that part of these funds is also intended for their operation, but nevertheless, a huge amount of resources, medical resources, which people with the lowest income, pensions have to pay for supplementary health insurance, go irreparably to one of the profits and private activities. In 2020, private insurance companies raised EUR 655 million for supplementary health insurance, paid 503 million into the health system, which is 152 million. Next, I would like to say that in this invitation to tender at the end of 2020, when it was determined whether the invitation to tender would end the waiting period, neither did the Minister of State Mrs Bergantov, who is now a secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government, nor did the then Minister Tomaž Gantar, believe that. The Secretary of State said: “Unfortunately, we do not have the capacity for all these needs, and for these waiting species, I do not think that the additional money, unfortunately, will not solve these waiting species problems.” And the minister also said, "I can hardly imagine that the invitation to tender would change a lot." So, Madam Secretary of State, I am really interested in where this important difference between October last year and the beginning of July this year has been established, that the Ministry has completely changed its opinion on what will be the effect of the call for proposals. Look, the invitation won't change anything, according to those who proposed it. I'm sure it's just that the supplementary health insurance premiums that people have been paying for all the time of the epidemic will be rummaging into the hands of private people, as I said. In particular, the argument of the Legislative and Legal Service of our National Assembly, when the PKP5 was adopted, is relevant when it was signed on their part that the proposed regulation of the national invitation to tender is constitutionally and legally controversial. The Legislative and Legal Service has found that the proposal for a tender derogates fully and in all its elements from the system-wide regulation and is therefore controversial in terms of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. However, I must say that unfortunately, the same government then and even today simply ignores these arguments, both professional and legal. The proposalers know this, and their aim is clearly to break down the existing funding arrangements for the implementation of health activities in our country, based on a system of one general agreement on one payer and on the public network of operators. All of this becomes the past with the invitation to tender, as the call for tender introduces a virtually parallel private health system. All that remains is public funds. I said that everyone rich or poor must pay those 35.7 euros a month for supplementary health insurance or we all pay in the budget through taxes, contributions and various ways, excise fees from which this call for tender will also be financed. For this reason, we absolutely propose in Levica that this be deleted and that we join all the other signatories to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word "Micha Kordish." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, chairman. The main objective of this law, which should have intervened in the Slovenian health system, strengthened it, prepared it for the covida-19 epidemic below and dealt with the consequences of the epidemic, when we have suffered so far, is everything other than what I have just stated. The main objective of the Health Emergency Action Act is to privatise health activities. Of course, the government of Janez Janša cannot afford to dismember and sell directly because many too many people in this country value health as a human right and does not want it to turn into a commodity, an economic activity in which someone makes a profit. Therefore, it follows the path of another strategy, a strategy of slow exhaustion and gradual privatisation of the public on the one hand and the spilling of resources from our common public cash into private pockets and the strengthening of the private health system. In order to achieve this, the Health Emergency Measures Act reached out to three measures. One of these measures is described at point 36 and we propose to draw it out in Levica. This is a national invitation to tender to shorten waiting periods. Sounds good. We all know that we have waiting periods in this country, that this problem needs to be addressed, and that health care is undernourished. But when we dig under the surface of this invitation to shorten the waiting seasons, the following falls out. For the first time, it is a funding that goes through public health treasury, payer of services and material in our health system. Therefore, for the distribution of money also pass the fuses and pass through all the rules that normally apply and regulate the flow of money in the Slovenian health system. We should have all the alarm bells on by now. Secondly, private operators will also be able to apply for this call to reduce waiting periods. And, of course, private contractors will apply. They will collect the most profitable interventions, and in this way they will load up the small ones in a large way, and will soon draw back Slovenian public health. Thirdly, the money for this call will also come from commercial health insurance companies amounting to EUR 60 million. This is the money that insurance companies have kept to themselves during the covida-19 epidemic, instead of directing it to the public health treasury, and the public health treasury would finance the interventions carried out by health care. 152 million euros is this money. Now €60 million is being cut and put into a call to shorten waiting periods, which would even be fine if it were not a problem with the invitation to tender, as I have already indicated, to aim at strengthening private operators instead of strengthening public health and the public health system. This insurance problem also has a new extra back. Recently, commercial health insurance companies, such as Triglav and Sava Re, have invested heavily in private health care, and two of them have picked up the Diagnostic Center Vila Bogatin in Bled, Fontana Medical and thermal Center in Maribor, Cardial in Ljubljana. There is a whole concentration of medical capital in one hand, practically a private hospital. And these insurance companies will also be able to apply for a national call to shorten waiting periods. Undoubtedly, some of the money will also be paid, the money that they themselves have contributed to the call for a 60 million euro waiting period reduction fund. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am trying to show you is what is happening to us with this call to shorten the waiting period, not only the flat-rate financing of private health care, but also the de facto laundering of the money that, through the complementary health insurance insurance of the insurance company, has literally plagued the insured, virtually all the people in this country. Now it's going through the call mechanism to shorten the waiting hours that money turns, wash, and through this health infrastructure that insurance companies have picked up, back into these private pockets. Of course, we have made an amendment to throw this privatisation measure out of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The next is Jani Janko Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am not against the national invitation to tender as such. But it's very important how it's carried out. We have had a debate on the Health Committee and have discussed what the consequences of such an invitation to tender can actually have, which is so easily now being launched. And that's also one of the reasons that I mentioned at the outset, why this is the beginning of the collapse of the public health system. Because, as the invitation to tender is now being split and the money will be distributed discreetly, then they will say that we have tried this in practice during the covider's time and that why – and this secretary of state does not even hide – should have access to it by all the doctors who have completed the medical school and have any opportunity to perform the health service or offer it in the first degree logic, and that is that. Of course, this is not the system that we have advocated and composed, with all its mistakes that it simply has, it must be acknowledged. Therefore, I am in favour of making an invitation to tender in such a way that it is offered to all and signed at the same time. This avoids any exaggeration and extension of the invitation to tender in order to first perform for public institutions, then later work for concessionaires and later work for the private sector. No, the invitation can be made for everything at the same time, but according to the principle of the cascade system. This is described in the proposal for an amendment to Article 38 of this Act, which provides for the conditions under which any of these groups may also receive certain programmes. Why is this order and this cascade system important? In order to first fill all the necessary facilities available, of course, on the basis of the invitation to tender, requirements, criteria and criteria prescribed by the Ministry of Health. They would be laid down by this law to fill all available facilities in a public institution. As soon as these are filled, all the facilities offered by concessionaires shall also be filled. At the same time, immediately thereafter, all the facilities offered by the private sector. This is the only fair way to actually take advantage of all the resources we have at our disposal. Because otherwise, exactly what happened years ago will be happening, and that is that it will go according to the principle of who will be stronger, who will have more connections. Last but not least, we must be aware - because we can see this at the time of the epidemic - certain individuals have an absolute advantage in this government, absolutely certain rights and are always in the first battle lines, when it comes to paying, to cash it, what this government does without any doubt in the name of covida and protection, in order to solve only the epidemic. This seems to me essentially illogical and unacceptable, especially when the Republic of Slovenia is the founder of public institutions. The State is the one who is the founder of public institutions and does not grant them additional programmes, but rather gives them to private people. Excuse me, any private person who has his own common sense doesn't understand why he should give it to others, but if he can do it at home himself. That's why I think it's nonsense. Another reason why it is absolutely necessary to do so is because in this way we prevent so-called amphibians, against which we all have something to say and we all agree that they should be removed or prevented by certain security guards. As soon as we offer a single simultaneous invitation to tender under the cascade system, we also prevent someone working in a public office in the morning from continuing to work with a private person, because of course he will have enough work in a public institution and will perform all the tasks and what is needed there and will be adequately paid for. Of course, the problem is also the organisation of public institutions. This way, someone can argue and make an obvious point that a lot of things can't be done. I think it can, and it's just an organization thing. Last but not least, the Ministry of Health gives specific instructions, as it did with specific instructions during the co-vid, when it laid down the order in which health interventions are necessary or which are first carried out and not carried out. I agree with a lot of people, I sign the papers, and I'll object out loud, and the story has to be cut. The Ministry of Health shall instruct that all actions relating to the co-vid should first be carried out, then immediately after that, all those who are of an oncological nature, and subsequently all that is still available to the regular programme or anything else that stands in line. But what were they really doing in practice? Yeah, they were doing a math calculation. When they calculated that covid patients paid significantly more to them than to some regular program, since then this was also deducted on the basis of the formula, many times it happened that for the last two to three months, when this was already carried out under the direction of the Ministry of Health, this was not done because it simply did not pay them financially. And the order was simply not there and it cost everything. Thus, we had certain public institutions that did so, and they were punished in some way, in the notes, and institutions that quickly calculated and did not do so and thus further affected the waiting species. Of course, certain doctors within these institutions went to work in the afternoon and toward the evening for more money and much easier to earn, even though they did a health service that could be done in a public institution. These are the anomalies that we should prevent, so this invitation to tender based on the cascade system, which is a condition, cannot happen in the way that some try to argue that we will delay procedures and not know what else. No, no, that's not true. In practice, I know that we have already done this and that this can be done. It is true, once again, that it is necessary to write very clearly what are the criteria and criteria for meeting the conditions for the allocation of programmes that someone will be able to implement. It must prove that it has the capacity, that it also has the capacity to do so. Not as it was when they said, we're going to run a 100 percent programme, they got the money, but then we found three or four months before the end of the year that actually was the realisation of the programme for which the funds were earmarked, in fact 40, 50%, and everything else in the luft was hanging. Here I agree with the Secretary of State and with many others who have also discussed on the Committee. This is then what creates additional waiting types and can be avoided only by a cascade system, which means everything in the same way, where it falls and the order is known. Thus, this article, in essence, helps to solve the situation, and even as long as we have this system, allows for some kind of justice. I don't know why we would give the private the means to do the program, even though it could do it qualitatively, and on the other hand we will cover the losses in hospitals whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia, because they haven't done their job because they haven't actually got the extra money. I believe no hospital will be lost this year. I'm pretty sure we all know why. Because everyone worked as hard as they could because everyone was getting extra money. What's more, they can show surpluses. But a year later, two years later, the situation, if we're lucky enough to end the story with a fellow, will come to a head. That's when we'll see these consequences, which I keep saying will show up when this whole joke is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Alenka Forte, asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. I really like to communicate with Mr Möderndorfer. Slovenia, as a European country, has implemented the Directive on the free movement of goods and services as well as on a free economic initiative. It pains me, therefore, when you use the word "embryo" in relation to health care, because legislation allows every intellectual profession, both university professors, engineers, lawyers to carry out additional work in their free time, legally, following appropriate legal formulation. Here in health care, in accordance with the European Directive, there is nothing different, and I would like to ask that we no longer use the word amphibian here. These doctors who are willing to work through a regular worker for 40 hours plus 8 hours, as the European Directive requires when they have done all the obligations in their home institution, this is a condition that someone gets the consent that they can operate outside their own institution, then we talk about all these people contributing in some way to the reduction of waiting types. Let us bear in mind that we are a member of the European Union, that we have implemented legislation and that we would ask that we do not use words that are unfortunately offensive to me personally and also to colleagues of doctors and other healthcare professionals. And I'd like to add to that. These amphibians of yours also allow many public health institutions to meet the needs of 24/7/30 days. A number of hospitals would stop because the deficit, for example, is anesthesiologists or other specialties and hospitals could not even cover 24-hour healthcare without so-called amphibians.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. First, I would ask that there be peace in the hall and that there is no mistake about the speakers. It's a replica. Jani (Janko) Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. Look, now, first of all, I'm glad you only warned me about amphibians. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert spoke on the committee about amphibians, but you never mentioned them. But nothing about it, nothing about it. I look forward to this challenge. I agree with you that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is one of those countries that is talking about a free economic initiative. But there's only one little thing you haven't said, and that's the facts. The public health system, which we have in the Republic of Slovenia and by agreement within the European Union, is regulated by each country in its own way and this part is not considered to be a free economic initiative. But it is a fact that I have been listening to this for ten years, not just to you, but to other colleagues of yours, doctors who want to convince us in every way that it is a free economic initiative. What you're saying, and here you've misunderstood me, I have nothing to do with who's doing this afternoon somewhere private in my spare time. And not today, I've said it over and over again. Moreover, I have made it very clear that the public health system will never and never survive without the private sector. I'm not talking about concessionaires here, but I'm talking about clean privates. But it is important to know that, for the first time, the director of the public office has serious problems because, in fact, because we do not have properly regulated legislation, he cannot prevent it at all this time so that he can issue a disagreement to someone, and on the other hand, we both know that I cannot explain why one doctor can perform two operations in the morning and six in the afternoon with a private or five. I'm making up numbers because I speak very generally because I'm not talking about a specific case. It's just for comparison, but these are the differences. We both know that in the clinical center of the ten operating regular program, a negative emergency block of an additional four operating rooms, in the afternoon after three hours, one or two of them may be working. And that's what's wrong with this system, so we should fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I'm just gonna say it one more time because maybe someone's already forgotten. During the first four months of this year, there were 90 thousand acute hospital treatments without covid, compared to 118 thousand in 2019. So the difference is 28 grand. A quarter of what is usually done is not done because of covid. And we all understand, it's probably somewhere else like this. Because it is highly likely that diseases do not choose time, sick people are, wait and have to be helped. This is the first starting point. Second base. We have waiting types and sick people need help. Those who have such a disease that their lives are directly at risk are even more so. The last time we found out that there was a narrow throat even in oncology, this is waiting for surgery, which was sometimes not in Slovenia, and that is what we have to say. Here I must say that the Social Democrats do not have an ideological question, that the patients need to be helped and that the missing services, which are not currently available, need to be bought. We already have one such experience, which has been successful, this is an experience when Mr. Dorian Marusič, Minister of Health, was a doctor, who is also a mathematician, so he got a little more mathematically involved with the problem and he also had no reservation. Buy yourself where there are free services. So until now, I think we're more or less all together at the same wavelength, because people need to be helped. I'm not going to say now that even if we solve species with a single measure, and if we don't make a system that doesn't generate new ones, because we've helped people, we've really done a lot. But what we talked about at the committee meeting also needs to be regulated in public health, because this is going to happen all the time, not just with this, but with other measures. Where I see a problem, that's what I see. We have a public health system in this country, a public health system, which means state hospitals, where we also invest state money. If I understand very well the proposal you have already put into the National Assembly, we intend to invest €2 billion in the new state infrastructure even in the coming years. Of course, any good master wishes that the capacities he exposes are exploited. Because otherwise the economy doesn't play, otherwise we'll be doing objects with loss in advance. And also what the Member said before me, that we have expensive operating spaces in the respected health institutions, tables untapped this afternoon, that is to say that the facilities are free. In fact, I believe we have people at our disposal. With these calls, new people will not come from elsewhere to Slovenia. The question is, where will they provide the necessary things for the patients we need to do? That is why, in fact, our joint proposal is: let us devote a lot of money. I am very glad that we have found – and since then this is no longer an issue – the deposited 62 million profits as a reservation in private insurance companies, so that obviously all this money will now go into the emergency program. While there is a need to add the money available in the state budget to the health treasury, there will be plenty of money. On my part, it won't be obvious that we're coming late with the program, because I know that the health system works in a different way during covida. But with a lot of money, we're going to go buy free capacity for services that people urgently need. It is understandable that a state hospital must first be filled in, in quotations, state hospitals. This is our duty. The state owns this hospital. It needs to be filled. It is quite clear that the other type of priority are concessionaires because they separate from that healthcare system which does not have a concessionaire, because they also have certain obligations, obligations that they have to fulfil. They're not in the open market. They also have obligations under the concession contract, so it is clear that we must allow them to fill their capacities, if possible. It is quite clear that, at least for some services, there will still be a lack of free capacity. In Slovenia we also have health institutions that do not have concessions and these capacities need to be filled. And even when we fill all this out, if we still find that some people will have to wait too long for urgent interventions, investigations, operations, I am the first to agree to rent the missing capacity abroad where the conditions are what they must be. I am aware that at this point we have a rather unusual question. And it's a question of how to reward someone in a state hospital to be interested in working more. For example, I am, as probably most of you who have read what Mr Fakin wrote when he studied some cases of waiting species, pleased to learn that different health care providers in the public system work differently. Probably on the same payday. He even talked about the ratio of one to two. This is when we talk about efficiency, where it is the task of the presidents to hit the table and say, “see if the neighbors are working” – I imagine – “ten operations a day, why we only make them five, with equal capacities”. Or, if we work with an extra program, how do we reward the people who do this? But once again, it is right to implement additional programmes, it is right that we have found and found this deposited money, these 62 million provisions on supplementary health insurance from the previous year, which was not used. I'm pretty sure if I didn't drill with my own questions, health insurance companies would only show 16 million profits and 10 a.m. last year. If we hadn't gone into it, it wouldn't have been by making such a big reservation first, and then in the process we just got to it, "yes, it's for an extra program." Now let the Minister take full advantage of this. This is money to do urgently necessary services. The cascade system is justified. The cascade system allows us to continue to have the priorities we need to be. However, here at this point, I call on you to withdraw as soon as possible from the drawer the law on institutions prepared by Mrs Irma Krebs Pavlinič, which is intended to increase efficiency, and for some reason – I do not have this historical memory – has stuck somewhere. Let's see how to reward that contractors too will be interested in working in their parent institution. I understand that they have their own interests and why we should not be able to realize them in their home institution. I'm done here. Yes, the emergency program, let's help reduce the waiting lines and do everything we can to ensure that even if we effectively reduce them, there will be no new ones. I know we've been talking about this for years. I know if you'll excuse me, we think well in our hearts, I believe, everyone, but let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The list of applicants has been exhausted. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I ask for applications. Four of them have been reported. First he gets the word "Anja Bah Žibert." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps even in defense of colleague Jani Möderndorfer – the word that the Secretary of State warned us about did not come out of the National Assembly; it has also been used among doctors since I did not know which year when these things appeared. So it is certainly up to us to find perhaps a more professional word and talk about these things so that we do not hurt anyone, because I think we are the ones who have to take the most care in these matters. I thought it was a good idea to say this, because in the National Assembly, that word really spread, but it didn't come up in this room. Now for the content. We are now talking about a national invitation to tender. I think it is very important to say first that this is not a permanent measure; this is the first thing to say. In their discussions, some went back to that field to privatize health care and so on. This is a measure for 2021 and 2022. This is a measure that would allow for the reduction of waiting lines for people who have also crossed into really long waiting lists because of covid. Speaking of who's gonna be doing these services, I think this is the funniest place. They will be carried out primarily by citizens, experts of the Republic of Slovenia. It's very important to me in the first place. It is said that we make maximum use of local knowledge, domestic expertise and domestic quality. That's not possible right now. Now, with due respect, it will be somehow clear to me in this article what you want to deny in some way only because someone is essentially acting as a private person and we are saving waiting types of patients and we want to include all the capacities in this national invitation to tender, you are opposed to those people who are abnormally long waiting in waiting lines. There are 17,000 who have a definitive request for intervention and do not receive it. I went to take a look at this thing, the knee prosthesis of 2,000 people. You can imagine that this is not only about the pain of these people, but also that these people certainly cannot do their job. These people probably can't go to work and do their jobs for eight hours. In this way we certainly do not only bad things to those individuals who suffer some pain and are deprived of normal life but also to the country itself. Does anyone add these things up? Endoprosthesis of the hips of thousands of people, surgery of the wrists of 4 thousand people, surgery of the gray dying of 2 thousand 356 people, surgery of the ankles and feet and so on. But if we add all this together, it's about 17 thousand and 664. Now, tell me whether it really matters who's going to know this intervention, or whether it's important that these people finally get involved. Let's move on here. We now have legislation, and before that, the secretary of state has said nicely that those in some over-the-counter rows have opportunities to intervene abroad. Now I'm asking you if you've asked yourself who will perform this intervention abroad. Is that when it's determined who's doing this? No, because we're following the needs of the patients and it doesn't matter, he's going to go to the neighbouring country and he's going to get this intervention from some private. But today the only problem is for you to prevent those who are actually carrying out a private ambulance, but who can help reduce waiting lines, from having a national call for two years to reduce waiting lines. This isn't about any decomposition, I think it's called wrong here at all, but it's about the sound, the participation of one and the other for the benefit of the patients. We've got another 32 grand in waiting lines. When I looked at this information, it just kind of freaked me out, because we're literally working on how we're going to make it impossible for experts to do their job. Look, just for the ultrasound, a thousand 588 women are waiting. You know what that means? That it could be too late for a lot of people. Come in. Holter heart 2,000 295 men. Then we have colonoscopy, that's not in Sweet, 6000 744. Can you imagine that because someone doesn't come in on time, it's too late? Today, instead of dealing with how much we can all contribute together to reducing waiting lines, we are still working on how to limit certain types. I think this is a completely wrong path and that it is important that we allow people to come as soon as possible. Before that, a fellow Jew said, "We're just going through a system when there's not enough, and we can also buy capacity abroad." Citizens and citizens already have the opportunity to make use of their capacities abroad. It's already today. But in fact, with this system that we have, we prevent us from doing it at home and in due course. I do not think it is necessary to fear that this is a welcome measure, that there is not even a little bit here that there is no need for any privatisation, but that the measure, when one works in two places and so on, although it has all the possibilities and conditions for it, depends on what has already been said from his employer. They're some kind of legal restrictions. But I think there's a employer here who either makes a contract or doesn't. I know why there are questions here, why you shouldn't deny it, but I still think you need to look here and upgrade things so that they won't come. I don't have a problem with someone working somewhere else this afternoon, it's his right, it'd be a problem if the system didn't work so that there wouldn't be some sort of service in the morning, so that it would be done in the afternoon. I have a problem with that. I wish we could stop this as much as possible. But when we talk about these services, I am always very careful. Services yes, let's increase services, but within the framework of the professional guidelines. For example, we have a service that is settled by the Department of Health Insurance as a service of a particular specialist, while its professional guidance on this service is completely different. I'm just going to give you an example of a deviation from a specialist psychiatrist. Otherwise, the health insurance company evaluates their first meeting with the patient, as they do according to their professional guidelines. Then many times they have to decide for themselves to balance it somehow, if you know what I mean. So either you stick to what the health department covers with funds, or you're going to focus on guidelines that have also committed you to doing this specialty. So the doctors here also have one difficult task, and it's not just that, I'll say, excuse the expression, but to go into some sort of stagnation, that would be very bad. It is also necessary to provide a very high-quality, efficient system, which will also have hearing for the patient. Today, many patients say that sometimes they just feel like numbers. That's not good either, even though we might have to do some more checks, but we're going to have to do this the other way. I assess that the national invitation to tender, as defined by the law proposed, is not negative. I think all of a sudden we're using all the resources, and I think it's better than going in some kind of sequence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The next is Member Joseph Horvat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we have different systems, different views on the modernisation of the Slovenian health system, which may appear right now in this debate. I'm going to touch the amendment myself on Article 38. But it would be time to actually, after two major national consensuss, if the first plebiscite, independence, independent country, second entry of Slovenia into Euro-Atlantic connections, the third one should be modernisation of subsystems that are crucial for our Slovenian society, where, of course, the health system is the first one. We haven't touched him in a reform sense in almost 30 years, since 1992. 30 years is a very long time when circumstances change and the legislator, any government, should pay attention to this and adjust things to the current challenges. They say every bad thing brings good. The covida-19 epidemic is certainly a very bad thing, but it is good that this epidemic in some way introduced those weakest points of our health system. True, I agree with those who say that we have been talking for too long, but we have done nothing to ensure that the health system is resistant to such shocks as the epidemic. This is certainly not the last, and there will be other disasters, and we need to build social subsystems that will be resilient. That is why this emphasis, resistance, on, last but not least, on the priorities of our Presidency. If the system were good and resilient, it would have answers to all these health-care shocks that we experienced during the epidemic. Then I probably wouldn't need this law on emergency measures in the field of health, which is, of course, some kind of intervention law. We in New Slovenia advocate public health. Many of you are telling us that we will privatize health care. I don't know on what basis. We also advocate public education, and we also prove this through funding. After 11 years, almost 12 years, just for comparison, we will spend more than 120 million on public education, or more precisely, on kindergarten and elementary infrastructure, where the founders of the municipality, if the happiness of the community is good, spent more than ten, twelve years, when virtually no money was directed from the state budget by those who talk a lot about public education. I am pleased that I also have some affection for investment in public health, which brings a new law, which means that we will invest the poor 2 billion euros in public health infrastructure, the public health system, over a decade. This privatisation, which is also seen here in the explanation, the obvious, the czech, you will privatize health care, is on broken legs. This is some religion that is constantly repeating, the privatisation of health care and so on, but there is absolutely no sound reasoning. I'm surprised there's anyone else in Austria, Germany or Canada, if you like. I'm really surprised. I will not repeat what Mrs State Secretary has said, I am merely appealing to all of us, colleagues and colleagues – who knows any MP who is also a amphibian? Is it forbidden for a university-graduate physicist from the Institute of Joseph Stephen to train physics in the afternoon, evening, Saturday or Sunday? And when I read the explanation, you say, I am talking about the amendment to Article 38, "we are proposing a clear order whereby, according to the capacity of the waiting period, public health institutions, then concessionaries and only last private ones" would first be resolved. And now – pay attention!« while the latter can«, i.e. private people, "only participate in a limited period of time and with limited financial resources in order to avoid the breakdown of public health." Here it is clearly shown by your assessment, which is legitimate, that private people are, in fact, those who care, if I may say so, cause a breakdown of public health. It is quite clear that this does not have any sound reasoning whatsoever. In fact, this explanation protects only state health at the expense of the patient. Why? Because we advocate the free choice of a doctor. When I'm sick, when my days may count, what do I care who's gonna treat me? My only wish is to get well as soon as possible, to get well at all, to choose the doctor I think is best, and to pay for this service from public funds, from a health insurance company where I pay my whole life. My money suddenly becomes public money because it's also an embedded solidarity component, which is right, but that's how I imagine the functioning of the public health system. Free choice of a doctor, as much as possible quality service and to pay for it by a health insurance company in which I pay my whole life. Privatization. Then let's get our ideas straight about what privatisation is. We know that privatisation is a process of transferring ownership of an enterprise, if you want, or an institution, from the public, state sector, if you want me to be more accurate, from the state sector, to the private sector. Or I'm wrong about that definition. I will then, if I may, take a public call for a change of state to accessible public health, as wrote by eminent doctors and also by a group of intellectuals. Thus, a public call for a change of the health system from the state, which we now have, to accessible public health. This is what we advocate in New Slovenia. Why? Because human health is one of the most important values. Access to a doctor and quality treatment are key elements of public health. In Novi Slovenija we are advocates of public health, I repeat for hundreds of years. Our goal is to be alone, and that's human health. This is the basis of public health, to which all citizens are constitutionally entitled, and it is also, as I have already said, financed. Currently, Slovenia has state health care. I know I'm going to do a lot of replicas with this, but I'm just going to stick with this statement. We have state health care that is inaccessible and ineffective and consumed by corruption. Not entirely, here I have to expose exceptional heart doctors, nurses and so on who burn in their jobs so that we can be healthy so that we can live at all. But corruption is certainly a problem. What we have today is our fault, not our medical staff, we, the legislator, the government, for 30 years. What we have today is far from the true full - blood public health care that serves the patient. Far away. Slovenian national health care is incompatible with public health systems in other European countries where public health care is based on accessibility, free choice of physician and the principle of solidarity of insured persons. As it is said, these are summaries, some appeals, parts of a public call from eminent Slovenian doctors and intellectuals. And that's what we're behind in New Slovenia. In Slovenia, our patients have suffered for at least 30 years from restricting the right to timely and effective treatment. The covida-19 epidemic further exposed the inaccessibility and inefficiency of the Slovenian health system. And here's our job to fix it on a systemic level. Intervention law, one or two, unfortunately he won't be able to solve it. Here we need one of our own, if you want, political or even national consensus. Doctors and other healthcare professionals have no influence on the medical system. They can only advise us – Members and Members of Parliament. This is decided by the Government, the Heads of State, Health Institutions, the ZZZS and, of course, the National Assembly, in particular the National Assembly. All citizens, regardless of political definition, social situation, property situation and other personal circumstances, need comprehensive solutions that place everything, I underline, patients and not only those who are further affected by the covida-19 epidemic. We are witnessing calls on us to change the laws and regulations in Slovenia and thus take the first and decisive step towards ensuring universal access to doctors and health services in the light of the example of European countries. The starting point for the payment of health services must be timely and quality treatment and not the status of the provider. At the same time, important doctors point out that it is those who have been spreading ideological lies about public health that have been silent for decades about the transfer of public money into private pockets in the supply of medical equipment and medicines. They only include actions that put all patients and their well-being first. That is why they turn to colleagues, health workers, journalists and us legislators, and to all people of good will, to help us present and defend effective public health through a Western European model based on accessibility, free choice and solidarity of citizens. The authorities, the legislator and the government should finally establish public health care where the patient will not be forced to pay for treatment from his own pocket due to lack of access. We have this information, colleagues and colleagues. Every year there is more money when, if we want to be dealt with quickly, we have to pay from our own pocket of services, with compulsory health insurance and, of course, supplementary. “The public health care in which the citizen pays for insurance should be established, in case of illness, received timely treatment and the insurance company financed the costs of treatment, regardless of patient’s choice of physician.” And what's wrong with that call? I don't think so. But there is a lot wrong with the amendment to Article 38, which is why, of course, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I suppose it might be easier if you applied to the debate. There are two other debaters. Can I also give you a replica if you want? Željko Cigler first, then Janko (Jani) Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very brief. When my spokeswoman said that we advocate public health, we remain silent in the event of corruption in public health. Absolutely not, Mr. Horvath. We immediately responded to the acquisition of emergency medical equipment and the flow of money [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Dude, this isn't a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	which was intended for covid patients [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	This is a debate [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	and set up even an investigative commission for this form of corruption. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Cigler, this was a debate, I warned you earlier. It's not a replica. Comrade Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	I repeat to my respectable colleague Horvath in the part where he mentions Article 38, or the proposal for a cascading solution to this problem. I did not say that I am not for immediate assistance, I do not oppose this at national level, in all three areas, public, concessionary and pure private. I don't have a dilemma. But the founder of public institutions is the Republic of Slovenia and the cascade system does not say that we will now have a tender for only public institutions for the first three months and we will see where the facilities are available and then for three months we will find out how the concessionaires' capacity is available and then for three months for private employees. The train's gonna run away a long time ago, and things are gonna go for mushrooms. The purpose and intention of the Ministry of Health, however, should the Secretary of State correct me if I misinterpret it and I discussed it, and I wanted to say that it is necessary to immediately enter the market with money, see immediately where the capacity is available and start immediately by solving the reduction of waiting species. But our proposal is that we support all of this, but on a cascade system. And it's done right now. One tender establishes the conditions, criteria and criteria set out and it is said that there are so many free programmes in the public service, there are so many free programmes in the concessionaires and there are so many in the private sector. And they're all in the game right now. What's the problem? But the difference is one, and that's essential. The first case proposed by the Ministry of Health is a discretionary right. We object to the fact that the Ministry will now only decide on the basis of the calls, give so much to the private, give so much to the concessionaires and so much to the public institutions. We don't support that. Therefore, the one who explains that this proposal is in Article 38 of this Law, and you have just mentioned it, Mr Horvat, that it is a different invitation to tender and that it is impossible, does not. Then this is a misunderstanding of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Alenka Forte, asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. I would just repeat and point again to the fact that comes from the analysis. In the past, when the additional programmes were called for, the institutions committed themselves to the contract, but then they implemented the programme unfortunately only 25 %. And what happened? The reserved funds remained in the cash register of ZZZS and people without services. With such a proposal, where we suddenly sign up, under clear conditions, which will be the same for all, anyone who has conditions will be able to apply. Thank God that these applications will go beyond what we want to do for our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think that everyone in this room and even those outside share the same opinion – waiting types need to be reduced. There's no reason to be for anything else. How to get this and kind of shorten, however, we suggest a little differently than you suggest in marriage. At the outset, I must say that I strongly oppose what was said at the beginning of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's debate that those who table amendments to Articles 36 and 38 are opposed to those who wait too long. Absolutely not. Problems or waiting periods are prolonged, and the covida epidemic has worsened significantly. And yes, people were wondering at the time of the first wave how to get to a doctor. Health services were continuously cancelled at both secondary, tertiary and primary levels, which were extremely sparse. In public health care, according to the hospital, there was a battle with time and with patients. The public health system worked the most at the time. Hospitals have decided to use all their capacities to treat patient covid, while other things have somehow gone sideways. Let me just say from practice what's been going on. During the second wave, health services began to be opened, and, yes, it was expected, as we have said several times today. More than a thousand people are waiting for an endoprotesis hip and they do not perform these services in UKC Maribor today or even invite patients to the examinations. Since the month was March 2021, you won't believe it, I called the Ortoped Hospital Valdoltra, where an orthopaedic examination has already been carried out, already a waiting line, and I think the operation will be carried out in a very short time. If we were to wait for a service in UKC Maribor, believe me, this year would hardly be the first orthopedic review. So it is really necessary to take steps in the right direction, for people who need a new hip simply cannot wait. Their lives are much worse, not to mention that they are still in the hospital stock, because they cannot work; and they wait and wait, even a year. Let me now touch on the amendments to Articles 36 and 38, which we are proposing. We certainly believe that this national programme must be done in such a way as to go through the cascade system. First, all capacities in the public health system should be used, then the concessionaires and third parties should also be involved. Why am I saying that? Especially because we do not know what service or what quality of service will be in private. We fear that private individuals will provide only those services that are less demanding and have a greater financial impact and that public institutions might be able to find other services that are more demanding and cost-effective. In doing so, I also have the absolute question of what will happen to solving complications in the case of the service performed by the private person himself, whether these complications will be solved again by the health system. In order to understand each other, I do not oppose the private sector, it is absolutely necessary to stress that the main staff in the private sector are employees from public health institutions. An absolutely Slovenian health system will not be able to provide all services if this is not the case for private involvement, but not in the way it is intended. We need a systemic solution, as my colleague Horvat has told me, which we have been talking about for a long and long time, and there are no results. This intervention measure, which you are referring to in the law itself, has, according to my judgment, the path that you will somehow map out to say that this system is correct, will go into a systemic solution. And what's going to happen? More services will be provided in the private health system than in the public system, which I strongly oppose. The cascade system is the one to be correct and the only way. First, the provision of services in the public health network should be completed, then private individuals, concessionaires and then private individuals should be included in the third phase. This amendment, which we are proposing, is a step in the right direction, maintaining public health and I believe that even with the money we have, which comes from supplementary health insurance and also from the budget, we can shorten the waiting times for people to get the kind of care they should have long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Replica, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Because I was mentioned by my colleague Bojana Muršič. It should be said that several amendments have been tabled and some amendments require the deletion of the so-called national invitation to tender. However, the deletion certainly means that health services are not available. The purpose of the national call, and here I think we both agree, is to reduce waiting types. For example, we have only a different view of how we would carry it out. But I've been talking about those who certainly mean the problem, and that's the deletion, which would mean that waiting species not only stay, but they can get bigger because we don't know what they're going to be like. There's something else that he's been stressing all along. I wouldn't be so afraid of which performers would do that. Now, all of a sudden, individuals will perform more than those who come from so - called public health activities. I'm more afraid there won't be enough of them, not of them, not of others. I think we're all dealing with the wrong question or the wrong problem. I don't think there'll be enough performers in the end to do this, even if we're financially capable. This seems to me to be crucial, which we should also discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much. As the last person in this circle gets the word of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll repeat a few things from my committee debate. There are also some things that are new, or that we do not hear each other or that we do not hear each other. Next, a colleague from SAB said that the salary is not a motivator, but that it is people, belonging and so on. It's a little hunting. So our doctors went to Germany and Austria to work for belonging. It's real that they went for the pay. We have to pay people in health care properly. In particular, nurses are underpaid and all accompanying, perhaps doctors are not the worst, perhaps beginners, or otherwise not. Everything else from nurses and others is actually underpaid, and we're gonna have to do something here if we don't want everyone to escape abroad. In 2013, there were 7 thousand 800 who had been waiting for too long, more than 50,000 of them today, or I have 73,000. People pay insurance don't get the service they should get. They pay regular health insurance every month from the salary and then additional insurance and wait and wait. We have heard practically under all health ministers about the length of the hospital, how we have a lot of people on long-term hospitals, weeks, months for years, and the Institute of Health Insurance paying for this. Instead of saying hello to these people as soon as possible, which is why they're in the hospital, and putting them back in the system so that the payers can get back into the health system, not just benefit. Now, here's the thing about amphibians. I don't like that expression either, as the Secretary of State has already said. Look, these people do their job in their time of work. If he doesn't, it's the chairman's fault. If they are understaffed in business hours, it is also a matter for the chairman to suggest that their programme be increased. This may be done through a contract with the Health Insurance Office. That's all you can do, and that's what's going on. The fact that a specialist goes to work with a concessionaire or a private person – many more go to hospitals, as the secretary of state said. Radiologists, anesthetists from the clinical center are going to work in Celje and so on, because otherwise they could have closed or offered no 14-hour treatment for what we have. We couldn't guarantee that if we didn't borrow from each other. And they go not only to private or concessionaires, but mainly to public institutions. Ask the people you know a little bit, and you'll see that that's true. In 2017 and 2018, in the time of Minister Kolar Celarc, we earmarked €26 million for the elimination of waiting lines. Of these, only 8 million were realized. Only 25% of what they said they were going to do and what they signed the contract for. While concessionaires realised 100% of what they said they would. I've already given the case to the University Clinical Center the last time. They've reported 200 surgeries, they've been performed 100. Don't hold on to what my friend Jani said they got paid for it. They didn't get it. They get paid after they realize, only what they do. But the problem is that there was money reserved for them for operations they didn't do. And I don't know why you didn't propose a cascade system at the time. If we did, we wouldn't have the eight million. Eight million have all been done together — public institutions and concessionaries. But we had 36 million dollars in money. So in the same way that it didn't work out, to save again, it doesn't make any sense, because we're not going to do anything. A fellow Jew said the last time we had to punish someone who didn't do his job. How can you punish him? Tell me what we're going to do to the clinic, which did only 100 surgeries, not 200, as he said it would. It's a good thing they did anything! Because people have been doing this not in their working hours, but in their delusions, because they have their hours full. My friend Jani said he was in free capacity. There's no free capacity. If they work 8 hours and already have a program, they can't do an extra 20% at the time, but these people had to stay after work, work overtime, and therefore get paid from these 8 million realisations. Public institutions won't be able to do more than that. I have friends and acquaintances who work in public institutions. They say they can work overtime for a month or two, but they can't do that for years or years. They're 50 years old, and I don't know how many and they can't do double shifts. And a man understands them. So you keep pushing them to have more, more, more. That's why people are leaving, okay? [[…]] Instead of giving them the normal way to work that they're normally paid and charged as much as they are normal, not excessively. Otherwise, you're gonna get away from us any time. The invitation to tender under PKP5 or PKP6 was not implemented at all. He wasn't there for the crown. Minister Gantar didn't sign it or things didn't happen then, because covid made it impossible to do this. The last time I said that the problem of our health care is also that the heart surgery in the Clinical Center is evaluated with one number and 20% less in Maribor, and 30% less in the medical concessional clinic in Izola. In these years, even though I can't say that we've screwed up, Medic did things for that kind of money, if the Clinical Center did it, it would cost us 20 million more. That's what I've been saying for 15 years, what they're doing. 20 million more – do you know how much money that is? And that's on the shoulders of certain people who did that. Because if we were in the Clinical Center, we'd do it for higher money and probably get better pay. And once again, in 2017 and 2018 concessionaires realised 100% of what they reported. The clinical centre and other public institutions are not – but they are 25%. And now we're gonna kick their money back in and ask them to do more. But you yourself have found that they were already the most burdensome in the crown, and now we will require them to respect all the waiting types. They can't. And that's what we've seen in recent years, when not even the program they have, my colleague Jani said they have free capacity. They don't have the free capacity if they don't already execute the 100 percent programme they have without any more hanging. 74% realisation, 76%, 88%. But I'm not saying there's no backup. I'm sure they are. But this is a matter of leaders, as I said, who have to agree with the ZZZ to increase their program where teams are able to do it more. Mark Night's case. He said, now I'm about to say that at the Clinical Center from Monday to Friday he does as much as he does in Medico on Saturday and Sunday. This means that he is under-burdened in the public service. When Mr Šabeder was the director of the Clinic Centre, we told him so, and he asked the chief of cardiology to increase his program. And they were all for it, but then things didn't work out. And I could have done more, actually, I should if time allowed him and he didn't suffer quality, but that didn't happen. He has said "I could work more" several times, but apparently the Clinical Center doesn't want to work anymore, even though it gets paid by the ZZS, and it didn't. And I'm not saying this right now, it's just one case, but there's probably a few more cases like this. Mr Šabeder also told me to remind you that one third of the people in the clinic centre work under average. Have we done anything to make these people work at least on average? Because they have to work on average for their salary. Those who work overtime should receive extra overtime and other rewards. Maybe that's it. When people don't get a favor here, they go abroad. You do not have a problem with the ZZZS paying for a private person abroad, but in Slovenia it is not allowed. So it's better that we give the ZZZS money to a private Croatian doctor, an Austrian doctor. That's not a problem. But the problem is to give it to a Slovenian doctor. I don't understand that logic. If you remember surgery of the veins, trouble in Trieste and so on, complaints and so on. But the ZZZS paid for it. However, if one doctor did so in Slovenia, it would probably be the whole procedure to pay or not. We haven't arranged a bunch of things, and we can't do them in six months or one year. But we've already done a lot of things: we've increased admission to medical school, and now we're talking about supplements to make people pay. The main pillar in Slovenia will always be public health. We have no problem with that. This distraction that we want to privatize, it doesn't drink water. It is true, however, that the public system is always combined with a private system. We'd be crazy to have everything in public because we're not financially capable of financing it and doing a clinic and I don't know what. Thank God a private man comes and builds his own clinic. This country costs nothing, and then it offers services. Of course, the Ministry and all the authorities in that country shall determine whether or not it fulfils the conditions and so on and then give it all the permits it needs. Public health will always be the main one, and it will not end tomorrow if we also devote some resources to concessionaires and private people to arrange these waiting types for us. After all, no competition harms. If someone in a private orthopedic clinic or a concession is capable of doing ten interventions a day, we have to ask ourselves what the problem is that an orthopedic clinic can't do ten per day, but it can do five. And we're gonna have to start comparing things. Then you say we make the criteria and then we watch it. What makes you think there's no such criteria? Because they would have long ago found that, unfortunately, some in public institutions are not effective enough. If there were criteria and criteria, we'd know how much someone has to do and then there wouldn't be a derogation. You can get a little complicated, you have a little backup, but basically, if someone can do ten interventions in the Medici concessionaire, why in the Clinical Center at the same time only five. And then the leaders and those who tolerate and allow it will have to be called to account. You've got a doctor paid there to work, not follow the ZZZS, who doesn't move blindly. It is only necessary to find that there is so much more to be done and that there is only a little more to be done, at least at some point in time, that some things need to be resolved and brought to one normal level. The cascade system that you are proposing, so Levitsa suggests that what is being deleted is absolutely not supported, but the cascade system does not know why you did not propose it in 2017, 2018 at the time of Mileka Kolar Celarc, who made a similar invitation. Well, thank God you didn't, because it would be not a realisation of 8 million, but even less. In fact, they would invest even less in the system and then remain in the ZZZ or in the budget. Let's speed things up to be done. Anja's colleague has previously listed how many people she's waiting for. We have 17 thousand 600 in one unit, 32 thousand 300 in the other, and every day new people on the waiting lists. I already told the board on May 5, 2031 for a nose operation. Ten years. Are we serious? Ten years from now, a man will be paying for health insurance to come into surgery in ten years? If he waits. I support this call and that this is done as soon as possible and that in fact now, I will not say punishment, but if the Clinical Center reports that 200 operations will be done, we will tell them that only 100 will be approved, because in the previous call you said you would be 200, and you are only 100. This is the only possible punishment. And I'm not saying someone has to be punished. These are real numbers, how capable they are. Let's give them that much and let them do it. But the rest should be done by others who are able to do so. I will not support any of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Janko Jani Möderndorfer applied for a replica. Please, if you limit yourself to a replica, not to any supplementary or additional or extended debate or controversy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Comrade Tanko, I don't need to be warned, but I need to be broken down. All the replicas I've used, I've made them very clear and focused. I'm replicating a colleague in the part where she seems to have misunderstood me or put things in my mouth. I never said that the public office had the capacity. I said, however, that the Cascade System at the Ministry of Health can determine how much capacity they have when they apply for the tender, the same applies to concessionaires and the same applies to individuals. The matter happens simultaneously and on the basis of this call, criteria and criteria, the Ministry also allocates funds and allocates programmes or what it will of course call for. But about having a clinical center, I didn't even name a hospital, I didn't say anything, and I didn't say anyone had the capacity. That, my friend, you just made it up or added a little bit that you've freshened up your debate and made it a little rich. But I agree with the others, of course, about a lot of things you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss these three amendments? I can see it's gone. Gradually, Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Yes, Comrade Jani, I will read to you from your magnetogram "because we will first fill in all the necessary free capacity available, of course, on the basis of the invitation to tender". So you were talking about free capacity. And I say they're gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much. This is not a procedural proposal, there has been a breach of the rules of procedure. Comrade Jani Möderndorfer, I've warned you, but I can't, in ten seconds, if someone has read something, warn you. Well, you understand. But I can give you my word, if you like, procedurally. Here, you have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. My colleague just confirmed what I said, and please don't abuse the procedure to slander me here. I was talking about free capacities to determine whether they have them or not, but I don't know. This can be determined by the invitation to tender. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Comrade Jani, you, too, know all well enough rules of procedure as regards the replicas, and please stick to this. Anyone else want a word of this? Please, please, please, please, please, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment of the members of the Left and LMŠ groups and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups. Anybody want a word? Anybody else want some? Janko Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This article speaks, of course, of this well-known supplement, which is to be received by deserving mayors and mayors of city administrations. When we discussed this issue on the Committee, we suggested that they should first and foremost distinguish what a public official is. The coalition has decided to add the Chief of the Administrative Unit. It wasn't enough at all. What we're adding and adding with these supplements, we're actually going crazy, like we have too much money and we're not really aware that these people are actually officials and are actually doing their job. Otherwise, I agree, I agree only in this part that if all of them get it, then we should get the chiefs of the administrative unit and someone else. But interestingly enough, you haven't been able to arrange an supplement for firefighters in all this time, but you're handing it over to officials. Excuse me, the mayor of the municipality, of any kind, is obliged by his function and nature to step into the game and help and cooperate and is paid for his work. But I'm wondering, and I don't understand why you're separating all the other officials. Then suggest for all the other officers! Why only the mayors? Is the mayor a special function in this country, or how? And I don't have any dilemmas, I've made it very clear that officials have nothing to gain if they do. But now it looks like someone's buying again, and that's one of those pre-election candy bars again, buying mayors, and you want to get them on your side for not knowing what kind of work you've done. Ask them publicly if they are willing to admit that they are only worth 200 euros as much as you give them. Why don't you just give them a percentage like everyone else? And give them a percentage. Be fair, though, and give them as much as the others have received. Here you are so recklessly transparent with this article that you really distinguish all other people. Poor people in the congregation who have not received this supplement will now see how the officials receive it. Of course, all these explanations will be clear, with which the principles, how they fought, how they worked together will be reduced, I don't know what else. Excuse me, like everyone else, in accordance with the powers and tasks they have in their work or functions, depending on what they do. That's why, of course, we're for this to be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Anyone else want a word besides Micah Kordish? I see you don't. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Article 41, let us look at another of the measures by which the government of Janez Janša wants to privatise the Slovenian public health system in accordance with the mantra, that if people are decisively defending the public health system, then this public health system must first be exhausted, cheated, pre-empted and subsidised, as far as it goes, while at the same time strengthening private health care with our public money. In particular, Article 41 covers the transfer of programmes which have not been carried out by public hospitals in the covida-19 epidemic to private individuals, and hence to finance. Public health was the one that saved the situation in our country when the epidemic was on the ups and downs. The countries that have been betting on private health systems in the past have drawn the shortest in the epidemic. Their health systems have collapsed like a house of cards. As we say, public health was the one carrying the weight of the epidemic, and private people were more or less on the side. How, then, are public hospitals rewarded for their sacrificial work? So now the government and the coalition are taking their regular programs, their regular interventions, along with the finances that go with these interventions, and transferring them to the private. We can see how together this strategy is made up to be publicly exhausted, privately kept at the expense of the public, and at the same time, the power holders in the country with the finger are pointing to waiting times, to the poor condition of hospitals and the like, which are in poor shape precisely because they have been consumed by such and other private appetites for 30 years. Following the current regulation, we can talk on more than one occasion about legalised corruption in our public health system. Doctors of amphibians, complementary insurance and the like are all ways through which private interest invades the public interest. So corruption by definition is only legalized. Instead of the government, whatever government, not only being current, but especially current, because we have it at the time of the covida-19 epidemic, to strengthen the public health system, especially in preparation for the fourth wave, which awaits us in the autumn, and to strengthen public health systems, which are the only ones to face regular health challenges and health crises, they continue to cut and feed their private friends. However, in order to be able to do so as widely as possible and to finance every espionage, which is only a shellfish, on which individuals work in the afternoon through contracts and themselves send their patients from their early morning regular employment to a public hospital, it also intervened in the role of responsible carriers for the private activity operator. There it has released the conditions necessary for you to obtain a permit as a private person, and we can also see why in this article 41 and the transfer of the programme. To make it clear that every espa, every private person will get their own piece of public money, the money of all citizens and citizens at the expense of public hospitals, who are already playing in one way or another. About a year ago, I emphasized the reception of those first pecapes, the poor infrastructure condition of hospitals, and the bean against the wall. Instead of building new hospitals, they are updated, and they continue to work in rooms 150 years of age. Here I am not just talking about one hospital, virtually all hospitals have such and different infrastructure problems and personnel and there is nothing better material for ongoing imaging operations. All of this is simply due to the invasion of private interest, attempts to privatise or, we can say, the privatisation siege in the last 30 years, which the government has been further deepening, directly taking money and programmes to public hospitals and giving them to private people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Here, you have the floor, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I didn't think it would be necessary to report that we'd already handled these things well and told each other already on the committee. However, because of the citizens and citizens, there is something that needs to be said. Here is another manoeuvre of the Left which speaks about the fact that a measure that essentially transfers the realization of unrealised matters to other health organizations, institutions and so on is for their privatisation. So if a hospital doesn't do the program, and it'll be known by the end of June, we can't transfer this program to another hospital or some other system that would do it. We can't, no, the Left won't let that happen. It is better that there is no realisation, it is better that people do not get a service and it is better that people are in waiting lines and that they can be treated too late. This measure has nothing to do with privatisation. For the first time, which is very important, it is a temporary measure. This is a measure that is certainly linked to the fact that the situation has worsened at the time of the epidemic, and we are trying to contribute somehow by this manoeuvre to the reduction of waiting types and that people come to services. And once again, the institution will be able to transfer the programs if those who initially received them were intended to do so are not able to do so for such or other reasons. But the fact is, with this transfer, other operators, including other health care institutions, health institutions, and so on, will be able to realize some things that would otherwise not be realized. And tell me how you can oppose such an effective measure. So, there's still unrealized things, it's money for that, but we don't let them move. But let's let someone go abroad, say, to neighbouring Austria, and get an intervention maybe from a private person who works completely private, but, as we say, it's a service. But we don't appreciate the service at home because there's someone in the system that you don't support. I think it's bad and it's not good for patients. For the benefit of the patients, it is now time to take all the measures, perhaps to find any additional measures, to reduce waiting lines and that people will come to emergency services. I think that must be the primary purpose. Moreover, I hope that there will be as many applications for this measure as possible and that the unrealised programmes will not remain unfulfilled, but will actually be an interest in realisation, because, as we say, we are also fighting the human resources flaw and cannot clone it. The fact is that we are also going forward with this law, including by somehow strengthening those areas that are somehow the most problematic. This law followed and brought certain solutions. So let us support such suggestions that really only help patients. Tell me here what a weakness is for a patient if he gets a program that someone doesn't know and someone else does. Don't tell me this isn't useful to the patient. You have no argument that this is bad for the patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I would respond to one of the indications which has somehow gone in the direction of transferring the programme to other hospitals and public institutions, which have not been implemented by hospitals due to the covida-19 epidemic, and that this is only possible under Article 41. That's not true. Money can already be transferred between individual public institutions and programmes between individual public institutions. What you're doing is taking money from public hospitals and making a lot of money to private contractors. This is an appetite, and this is the ambition of Article 41.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. There's more mag in the word. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The fact is that we all advocate that people waiting for an operation should be reviewed as soon as possible. What is forgotten is that only one part of health care takes over its complications, works 24 hours a day and then leads the patient to the end of the procedure, I hope by healing. This is not all health care in Slovenia. One part of health care ends up with all the complications. And that's what we're saying to protect. The fact is that the insurance company has the right now, too, if the programme is not actually being implemented so that it can be transferred back. Finally, she sent us a letter to all Members and Members of Parliament. I don't believe the head of the insurance company is lying. When he sends you such a highly respected letter institution, his opinion, we finally get to just what's going on in the Water Act. The government is stubborn, even though the University of Ljubljana, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, and even if the UN were to say clearly, would continue to be the head of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Ms Forte, Secretary of State, also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thanks again for saying that. Mag. I would like to illustrate to the Jew the recent case that has been reported to us. It is the co-existence of a public institution and a private centre. When an aggressive intervention took place in a public institution where a life-threatening injury to the main aorta was fragile, the private center solved the matter so that the operation immediately ended and helped save the patient’s life. So it's symbiosis, it's a matter of cooperation, and there's no way you can argue that the complications of private operators are being solved in public health. So it's a symbiosis of the system, and please don't separate the health workers as you separate them. Everyone cooperates and wants the best and works best for the patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Dear Madam Secretary of State, look back at the statistics on what is going on with the complications and where then the complications come in most cases. But there are always exceptions. But the interesting thing about exceptions is that they confirm the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you have to respond because it's not negligible and it's not everything that sounds like it's supposed to be some kind of severe decomposition, but I think it's right that a person, a patient, who pays into the system for many years to get the right to health care when he needs it. To complete health care. And this article only says that if someone cannot, of course, a health insurance company will follow this service. I do not understand why this service would not be done if someone was qualified and was already doing this service. There's not going to be anyone here who's never done that. He's not gonna do that. See, in the past we have had cases, and my colleagues know this very well when additional programmes have been applied for public or private, but mainly public institutions. And then they found out that somewhere by September they couldn't perform all the operations. The case was Novo Mesto Hospital. The autumn hospital did the job, and it could also do those that the New City could not do, but the program could not be transmitted. And what have we done with it? That those who could be operated would have to wait another year or more in the waiting line. We know that, and we have also considered this at meetings of the Health Committee for six months or a year ago. This is precisely the case when the transfer of the programme allocated to the new town hospital was not possible in the absence of fulfillment to an autumn hospital with free capacity, they had already worked out their own and could do so. Who's been here for the worse? The public health system or patients who have not come in line have paid, paid, and I believe that they will also be in the future to receive an immediate service when they need it. I think that led to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. There was a new mag to the debate. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	However, I agree with Mrs Ivo Dimic, although you are sitting on the other side of Parliament. If someone takes something, they sign it, they have to pull it off. That's the point of a contract. It's also kind of a contract if you accept an extra program. Not after saying that because he didn't do it, I won't work with him anymore. Call off the man. Those with whom the State has signed contracts should be penalised if they have not been executed. Although this is UKC Ljubljana. We know exactly how much he did and how much he had to do. Call off the man and bring in a credible man. But that can't be why public hospitals won't be trusted. If Valdoltra says so, we're able to do 300 orthopedic surgeries, if she says so, you won't believe her, but if one private person tells her, I'm capable of 20, and you'll believe him. Yeah, well, then where did we come from? Every man must be held accountable for his actions, his signature and then be punished if he does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Comrade Dean, that's not true. That's not true what you just said. If they sign up, if they do, they'll do it. And thank God they'll do it, because people will get the service they urgently need. We both know how it is with working teams everywhere in Slovenia, not only in public and private. I see this article as increased cooperation in favour of those who need medical services, surgery, transplants or heart surgery or hips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's still interest in the debate? If not, I'm closing it. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on ills found. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State of Mrs Alenka Forte, to further explain the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	All in attendance, all in attendance! On 18 June, the government introduced in the legislative procedure the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are presenting to you today. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is 3. 6. 2021 published Decision No 88/21. U179/20-24, of 13. 5. 2021 in which, in the constitutional and legal procedure, it has decided that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 39(1) of the Law on Infectious Diseases are inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court of Slovenia has ordered the finding of non-compliance referred to in point 1 of the sentence to be corrected within two months of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. It is precisely because of the need to control covida-19 infectious disease and to take appropriate measures to limit the spread of covida-19 infectious disease that these amendments and additions to the law on infectious diseases should be adopted. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases contains a provision that the protection and surveillance zone in accordance with the 88th point of the Constitutional Decision, by providing that it covers only the smallest geographical, administrative or statistically rounded area with common epidemiological characteristics which still allows effective control when entering or entering it. The law lays down the classification of contagious covida-19 disease as listed in Article 8, paragraph 1. It is found that covid-19 is no longer a new infectious disease after one year. The proposal for a new third paragraph of Article 8 establishes the binding nature of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the NICP in order to make use of the measures laid down by this Act, in the event of the occurrence of a risk of other communicable diseases which could endanger the health of the population. Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases implements the Constitutional Decision published 13. 5. 2021, by which the Constitutional Court decides that paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first paragraph of Article 39 of the Infectious Diseases Act are inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The law in the amended Article 39 fully refers to all constitutionally problematic aspects of the decision of the Constitutional Court and substantially narrows the field of discretion of the Government in the adoption of possible restrictive measures. Among other things, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes a new obligation to obtain a professional evaluation, introduces criteria and indicators that are taken into account both in its preparation and in the decision-making phase of individual measures, and establishes the content, time and space limits of individual measures and so on. The purpose of the proposal of the amended Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases is to make legal arrangements applicable both in the event of the occurrence of previously known infectious diseases or new modifications, as well as in the case of unknown and professionally unexplored communicable diseases. On the one hand, the proposed regulation, in the light of ensuring the protection of human health and life, is aimed at ensuring adequate and effective protection of human health and life, aimed at preventing and protecting the spread of communicable diseases and preventing infectious diseases. On the other hand, the proposal of the new Article 39 pursues the objective of a decision adopted by the Government in respect of a given measure to the extent possible by the Government to interfere with the freedom of movement and assembly and other human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to the type of individual measure. In a transitional provision, the law allows the criminal authorities responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings for infringements of the measures referred to in Article 39, paragraph 1, second and third, of the Infectious Diseases Act to cease criminal proceedings initiated by 3 June 2021 which have not yet been legally terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is in its 54th emergency session of 30th. 6. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Amendments were also tabled during the business deadline. Ms Alenka Forte, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, said that the Constitutional Court published on 3 June 2021 a decision of 13 May 2021 defining the decision in the constitutional and legal procedure, namely that Article 39, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Infectious Diseases Act are inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court ordered that the discrepancies found should be eliminated within two months and the Government has therefore introduced amendments and amendments to the law into the legislative procedure. Amendments and additions should be adopted in order to control covid-19 infectious disease and to take appropriate measures in this regard. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects, made nomotechnic and editorial comments and pointed out any new or additional non-conformity with the Constitution. Ms Maček Gustin, representative of the Law-Legal Service, said that, despite the suggestions made by the proposer in the explanation of the bill, the amended Article 39 fully referred to all the constitutionally problematic aspects of the legislation so far highlighted by the Constitutional Decision and that the proposed text of the articles still made it possible for the Government to make an arbitrary decision in dealing with the occurrence of communicable diseases. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Matjaž Horvat. He stressed that the Commission had examined and unanimously supported the draft law. In the debate on the Commission, a thin line was raised between the need to protect people, public health and the related measures of the executive branch and the protection of individual freedoms and rights. In the course of the discussion, the Commission called for additional efforts to create and adopt as balanced measures as possible in the light of that dilemma. A representative of Amnesty International also presented his position on the bill. In the debate between Members and Members of the opposition, it was pointed out that the government must be able to respond quickly, but with proportionate measures. The measures taken by the current Government have a characteristic of the state of emergency and it has been proposed that the Government should obtain the consent of the National Assembly after one month for the continuation of the measures. The coalition MPs disagreed with the allegations, the opposition MPs were politicised and stressed that the Constitutional Court of Unconstitutional Parts of the Law had not repealed and continued to apply. They stressed that freedom of movement is not an absolute right and is not over all human rights, especially the right to health during the epidemic. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mr. Željko Cigler. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to start by saying that, with regard to the amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases proposed, Members and Members of the Left will vote against these amendments. Let me get this straight. From a political point of view, the matter is relatively simple. The problem with limiting movement to municipalities was that the measure was ineffective and that it only applied to some. The same applies to the prohibition of collection. The decision of the Constitutional Court itself is questionable as to the meaning of its action and also this amendment to the law we are talking about today. This is not about which regulation limits freedom of movement and so on. The point is that this makes sense, some purpose in the benefit of public health, that it is effective and, above all, that it does not discriminate. That's not what this government has guaranteed or done. There were privileged exceptions that could have passed between the municipalities and the state border. The restriction was not effective, as people still went to work in other congregations and jobs were the main source of infection. While banning protests and imposing high penalties for expressing their own opinion and freedom of speech, the privileged were happy to associate even without masks. Of course, there must be some control over the government, and it must do so in accordance with the proposals and instructions of the Epidemiological Service, take action at the time of the epidemic. But I don't know if everything has to be written down and carved into the marriage. It is not on the opposition to correct this law, nor is it the biggest problem of its non-compliance with the Constitution, but rather the fact that the measures were classy, discriminatory and, above all, ineffective. This inefficiency has resulted in a high number of fatalities. The fact that the epidemic is an unpredictable event, that the variables are enormous and that there is no law in this world that can optimally predict and specify all possible situations. The law, as it is, is therefore written in a general way and the question is whether amendments made on the initiative and the request of the Constitutional Court will do even more harm than the benefits of future epidemics. I'd like to conclude with this. Let me draw attention to the threat that Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša made to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of our National Assembly yesterday. He said: "If we do not exceed 70 per cent of the gap in autumn, we will close it all again." And we have continued unstoppablely with all violations of the principles of the rule of law and human rights and freedoms, as I am adding to the fact that we have witnessed them in the first, second and third waves. In short, he said, citizens and citizens, regardless of whether the National Assembly will adopt the proposed amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases today on 6 July, we will continue the fall in the event of a fourth wave with a lockdown. Schools will be closed, kindergartens will be closed, all public spaces will be closed, and we will continue to deal with the violations of human rights and freedoms that have already been established, which you have faced in the past. I do not think that this is a democratic state and a rule of law, a policy which this national assembly could support. Once again, Members and Members of the Left will vote against the proposed amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Horvat. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected secretary of state with a coworker, dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia is a political party that takes into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we also allow ourselves the right to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which in our country, thank God, is not yet prohibited. On 13 May this year, the Constitutional Court ruled that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 39, first paragraph, of the Infectious Diseases Act, in non-compliance with Article 32(2) and Article 42(3), third paragraph, of the Constitution and the legislator, had ordered the finding of non-compliance to be lifted within two months of its publication. The publication of this decision was, I think, on 3 June, which means that by 3 August, the legislator must remedy this constitutionality. Why am I bringing this up? Because all of us, including you colleagues, have received a lot of electronic messages, where our citizens and citizens are asking us, begging us, warning us that they want a broad debate on the amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases. This is simply not possible, since the Constitutional Court has precisely defined the time frame until the decision of the Constitutional Court has to be rectified. Colleagues and colleagues, it is true that there is a discriminating process of exchange of arguments. The criterion of the legality of a legal provision or act, including judgments of the courts, is therefore the convincingness of the justification on which the legal act is based. However, the criterion of the plausibility of explanation has been developed by the established canons of legal interpretation over the decades and, indeed, in the Western civilizational sense of the century, through the development of good legal practices that have created law as such. So as an autonomous discourse, separate from all other discourses and normative systems in society, and above all from politics. Why such thinking? Because it is precisely this decision that has sparked a lot of debate, a lot of comments. This is where I think of the constitutional profession. Their comments were written by former Constitutional Judges, Presidents of the Constitutional Court and so on. The true force of the argument, if followed by the established canons of legal interpretation, would otherwise become a policy where binding but not legally convincing results dictate an argument of power. This is certainly the case with the Constitutional Judge, Professor Pavčnik, who, in his attached separate opinion, lists the established canons of legal interpretations by which the courts are not only allowed, but must fill in any indeterminate legal terms. This is an objectively dynamic way of interpreting, already designed standards of conduct, rules of profession, for example medical in this case, and in particular a constitutional interpretation. In other words and completely plastic, the legal standards of Article 39, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Infectious Diseases Act are too inconclusive and therefore unconstitutional because they are made by the Constitutional Court itself — that is, in a manifest violation of the system of interpretation at the level of the law itself, let alone the constitution reads the individual paragraphs of the contested provision, which is possible in isolation from the remainder of the law and the legal order as a whole. Judge Dunja Jadek Pensa worked hard, but apparently unsuccessful, to convince most of the people that Slovenia's constitutional order is being stepped up. Through its holistic whole, it helps to resolve complex legal issues when conflicts of different rights, both positive and negative responsibilities, arise in conditions of epistemiological uncertainty. Perhaps more than that, colleagues and colleagues, for the time being only that the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases. It is estimated that it corrects the non-constitutionality of the Infectious Diseases Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State and the others present! Today's theme is probably one of the most important items on the agenda of the July meeting of the National Assembly, as it touches on the Constitution of Protected Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and consequently on the weighting of values. The last year was marked significantly by the covida-19 epidemic. Many government measures, decrees and laws adopted at this time have had a significant impact on our lives, social events and economic activity. The New Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are deciding today, was created in response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which in early June found that it was inconsistent with the constitution of certain government decrees to contain the covida-19 epidemic. The Constitutional Court has repealed government decisions restricting movement. Thus, the anti-constitutional curfew, the prohibition of association and the prohibition of inter-community crossings were unconstitutional. The current Law on Infectious Diseases in the contested provisions states that when measures cannot be taken to prevent the introduction and spread of certain infectious diseases in Slovenia, the Government may prohibit or restrict the movement of residents in infected or directly threatened areas and prohibit the collection of people by schools, cinemas, public local and other public places until the threat is lifted. At the same time, it is important to be aware of why government decisions have so far infringed on certain rights and freedoms. It is the duty of the State to protect certain other rights or freedoms and, in particular, the principle of proportionality. The right to health care is the one with which we must reach all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, and the country must take such measures as are aimed at preventing, treating and controlling epidemic diseases. The State must also provide an accessible and capable health system, the healthcare service must be sustainable and be able to provide health services to citizens. All of this must be provided at a time when we are facing an epidemic of covida-19. Through this prism, we are also looking at the amendments to Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are now deciding on. The proposed amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases allows the State to fulfil the positive obligations set out in Article 51 of the Constitution in a way that establishes measures to protect the health and life of people. It is a new condition that the Government must obtain an expert evaluation before certain measures are implemented, which must include epidemiological, medical and social aspects of the proposed measures. The mandatory content of the expert evaluation is also specified, with particular attention being paid to the report on the benefits of the recommended measure and to the degree of limitation of movement and collection and other human rights in which individual measures are affected. The amendment also introduces mandatory 15 criteria and indicators to be taken into account in the preparation of the expert evaluation and in the decision-making phase of the Government on the adoption of individual measures. Time and space limits of individual measures are also laid down. The latter may be set for the shortest time necessary to provide adequate protection against spread or to prevent communicable diseases and to protect the health and life of people, but each time for a maximum of 15 days. We believe that the proposed solutions to the Law on Infectious Diseases are appropriate in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, so we will also support the proposal of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be moved by Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, colleagues, Secretary of State! The Law on Infectious Diseases is designed to eliminate the constitutional non-compliance of the law by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has assessed paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first paragraph of Article 39. It authorises the Government, in its current form, to prohibit or restrict the movement and collection of people in order to prevent certain communicable diseases from entering the country or to extend it. In doing so, the Constitutional Court draws attention to its preliminary assessment that the executive branch should not initially address matters falling within the field of legislative regulation, i.e. Parliament, not the government. It is therefore also disputed that the law allows the Government to choose in its own discretion the manner, extent and duration of the restrictions which interfere with the fundamental freedoms of citizens. There is no doubt that such a provision is inconsistent with the Constitution. Furthermore, the contested law does not have safeguards that could restrict government arbitration, such as the duty to consult and cooperate with the experts and to inform the public of the circumstances and professional positions that are important for deciding on the measures. The proposal to amend the law before us, thus redefines the content of the expert evaluation, introduces criteria and indicators that are taken into account both in its preparation and in the decision-making phase of the government to take individual measures and to determine their time and space constraints. However, the question is whether amended Article 39, as proposed, refers to all constitutionally problematic aspects. The key message of the Constitutional Court's decision is the need for extreme caution in restricting rights and freedoms and preventing the abuse of the epidemiological situation by each executive authority. Indeed, it is not possible to foresee all situations and therefore the Executive has to be able to respond quickly, but it must respect the proportionality of the measures. Therefore, the provision of safeguard mechanisms to prevent arbitrariness of decision-making is necessary. There is no doubt that the guards are still needed. Remember the curfew, which lasted for more than six months without any effect. However, the closure of educational institutions, which have brought more harm to children than benefits, and all subcontractors in anti-Korona packages, who, despite the opposition's continued intervention, still have a grave impact on civil rights. On the basis of these experiences, we have proposed an amendment to the SAB Group in order to establish a safeguard mechanism that prevents the arbitral decision-making of the executive branch when adopting measures that seriously affect constitutionally guaranteed human rights. Thus, for any measure exceeding 60 days, the National Assembly should give its consent and decide by a two-thirds third. Regrettably, the coalition has consistently rejected attempts to improve the legal text aimed at protecting citizens' rights and meeting the requirement to establish the legal basis. As has also been highlighted during the discussion on the labour market, the proposal introduces mechanisms for rapid and effective decision-making by the government, but does not introduce barriers and imbalances so that other systems can quickly respond to government mechanisms. We will not support the bill in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Branko Simonov, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for the Amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which is now on our benches, implements a constitutional decision by which the Constitutional Court found that article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases is incompatible with the Constitution. The proposal, which we are therefore considering today, is substantially narrowing the field of government discretion in the adoption of restrictive measures. Among other things, it redefines the content of the expert evaluation and introduces criteria and indicators to be taken into account in the preparation of the measures. It also lays down time and space limits for individual measures. In the event of human rights and fundamental freedoms, however, it proposes a specific mechanism whereby individual measures may be extended for more than 90 days only by the National Assembly. In summary, the Constitutional Court found that paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 39(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act were unconstitutional. In the opinion of the Constitutional Judges, the purpose of the measures must be clearly reflected in the law and should also be sufficiently precise in the definition of allowable methods or types, the extent and conditions of restricting freedom of movement and the right to assembly and association and other appropriate safeguards against the arbitrary restriction of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It has ruled that the contested legal regime of this constitutional requirement is not sufficient, since the Government leaves it to the Government to choose the manner, extent and duration of the restrictions according to its own discretion. The Constitutional Court has ordered that the discrepancies identified must be eliminated within two months. Our task today, therefore, is to eliminate the finding of non-conformity. At the hearing of the Health Committee, we agreed that the Government must be able to respond quickly, but with proportionate measures. We have thus adopted amendments which, among other things, in the proposal for an amendment provide for a more precise definition of action in the event of any other communicable diseases which are not provided for by law. We have also adopted an amendment that measures concerning restrictions on movement, collection and border crossings by decree shall be ordered every 15 days at the most. If the Government extends, amends, repeals or introduces a measure, it must obtain an additional expert evaluation before issuing the decision and inform the National Assembly and the public of the measures and expert evaluations. The amendment also provides that the movement to a region or municipality may be determined only during the time of the declared epidemic, and this also applies to the movement at certain times of the day. We are faced with situations that demonstrate the extreme sensitivity of the field of human rights limitation. We can defend the view that a broader consensus should be reached, but - is this even possible? We have come into a situation where we need to weigh the importance of different human rights, which are one of the most important civilizational acquisitions, and this is of course not an easy task. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases is an appropriate response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, so we will support it in the context of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Janja Slug, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Today, we are considering a government novel that eliminates the constitutional non-compliance of the law, which has already been passed in 1995. The year-and-a-half-life epidemic has highlighted well the problems in the enforcement of Article 39, which empowers the Government to develop measures to control and prevent the spread of the disease. Soon it became apparent that the biggest problem was the Law on Infectious Diseases itself, and in addition, the Government, by its decrees under Article 39 of the Law, extended and interpreted it in its own way. Government measures or decisions have been legally challenged from the outset. The constitutional controversy was further expressed in public gatherings or protests, when citizens began to actively express their opinions or their disagreements with certain government measures. In addition, the Government was unable to explain or justify how, by means of individual measures, such as restricting the movement of municipalities or the total ban on public gatherings, the spread of disease is halted. It is no wonder, therefore, that some legal and constitutional experts have soon warned that the Government is taking controversial restrictive measures, which have a weak legal and professional basis, while at the same time seriously interfering with human rights, which could be contrary to the Constitution. And that was finally confirmed by the Constitutional Court. I agree with those who claim that this year was one of the most important decisions of the Constitutional Court, which will for many years shape our perception and exercise of personal freedom, freedom of movement and assembly. We were also somewhat disturbed by the fact that the constitutional judges for their decision, despite the fact that government decisions directed citizens to them, took so long. However, if we read the decision in more detail and also a number of separate opinions - the latter has given six out of nine Constitutional Judges or Judges - we can understand that they have faced challenging challenges and that their opinions have been shared. Therefore, the final decision was taken only by one decisive vote of the majority. But if we try to simplify their decision a little bit, we can interpret it this way. Was the Authority entitled to act? Yes, measures were necessary as public health safety has priority over the spread of communicable diseases. Can the authorities impose measures arbitrarily, i.e. only at their discretion and without restrictions? No, no, no. Even in the face of the epidemic, the authorities must not and cannot ignore professional opinions, nor the constitutional aspect of restricting freedoms, nor can they unduly prejudice other constitutional rights and values, since the latter can ultimately threaten both the remaining human rights and freedoms and constitutional democracy alone. Slovenia is not the only one facing a dilemma regarding the choice between limiting human rights and preventing the effects of covida-19 disease. The obsolescence of the Law on Infectious Diseases and the universality of the dilemma faced by most European countries cannot, however, constitute an obligation for the Government, even though the measures followed certain other European and also third countries in the neighbourhood, not to be followed by them in the appropriateness of the legal basis. Some countries have supplemented or even adopted specific laws, such as Germany, Austria and France. The depreciation of the law cannot also constitute a commitment to governmental arbitration and the fact that, under the cover of the public health defence argument, it has also adopted measures which were not linked to the epidemic. Undoubtedly, the amendment of the law after a year and a half represents the first step, refers to the Constitutional Court's judgment and narrows the field of discretion of the Government, but we are aware that the answer to the question whether the Government has responded adequately to the demands of the Constitutional Court and has prescribed sufficient safeguards to protect against arbitrary interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms, is only submitted by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, our decision will be based primarily on whether the government coalition will listen to the amendments that we want to convince the Government that, in order to be more legitimate in adopting restrictive measures, in particular to inform both political decision-makers and the general public about them, there is also a need to discuss them in the National Assembly or on the competent working body as a protector against arbitrary interference by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next to present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Nice greetings to all present! We have before us amendments to the law following the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. What will change for the people? In our view, nothing at all, since the content of the measures remains the same, it is true that the measures will now be set at legal level. A professional evaluation of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia has also been obtained as a condition for the adoption of the measure. We believe that such recommendations have already been taken into account, as a decisive political decision could simply not be excluded in the last year's adoption of all measures due to the complexity of the situation. The epidemic, as we have seen it, requires an evaluation of the profession, both medical, epidemiological, psychological, sociological and political. We would like to see more and more psychologists involved in crisis headquarters, as their advice would certainly help to make the measures easier to take among people. With the start of its term of office, the government had to respond quickly and responsibly. Surely there have been mistakes, even if we had the left option of a government, there would have been mistakes, since this is a situation that we may have witnessed once every hundred years. The strategy of how to respond has not been prepared, so entire teams of people across ministries have had to work very hard to be in a relatively healthy situation today. These teams of people certainly do not belong only to right-wing options, but also to left-hand and also to apolitical definitions. The opposite political sex always makes it unrealistic for the President of the Government to take certain measures voluntarily and to cause damage and unnecessary tensions in society. The measures are certainly adopted by the Government, but on the basis of opinions and recommendations from experts. Of course, it is about the finesse that each government further integrates into the normative acts. We believe that, before each adoption of the measures in the background, there have been very difficult negotiations between all the above-mentioned sections and we have obtained the best measures that we can take in a given situation. The current law has so detailed a procedure that we hope that such legal consistency will not lead to problems in practice, as the field of government discretion in adopting measures is substantially narrowed down. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Good day to you all! The covida-19 pandemic, which somehow swept the whole world last year, was very surprising and left many negative consequences after a year and a half behind in both the economic and social spheres. The countries have done their best to address these consequences. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to respond quickly and effectively to the consequences of the pandemic last year, the next day following its term of office. Empty warehouses of protective equipment and insufficient legislation have been a major challenge for both the Government and for us citizens. Due to the possibility of covida-19 infection, the Government has also adopted interim and general prohibitions on the movement and collection of people in public places and public areas on the basis of the Infectious Diseases Act, which was adopted in 1991. The vast majority of citizens have respected these measures of the country in their desire to contain the epidemic as soon as possible. Many among us have unselfishly offered their hand and help to a wider community as well as to individuals. However, a handful of citizens were opposed and were almost opposed to any action taken by the Government. The group of initiators who proposed to the Constitutional Court on the assessment of constitutionality and the legality of decisions on temporary and general prohibitions on the movement and collection of people was of the opinion that the provisions of the decisions adopted so intensively affect human rights and fundamental freedoms that they could only be introduced in the event of a war or emergency. That measures should not be taken for the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia in order to be based on false data and that all these measures should be adopted by law. On the basis of this initiative of the group of initiators, the Constitutional Court issued a decision in May this year establishing that the second and third paragraphs of Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases are inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the case of restrictions on movement and collection of people in public places. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has not abolished the provisions of the law on communicable diseases, but has imposed on the National Assembly that within two months the finding of non-compliance must be remedied. However, the provisions of Article 39, paragraph 2, and Article 39, paragraph 3, of the Act shall apply to the elimination of the finding of non-compliance. The Constitutional Court, by its decision of the legislator, drew attention to the main shortcomings: that it is too slow to identify or not to establish an area where measures may be imposed, that there are no defined ways, types and interventions to freedom of movement and assembly, that there is no limitation on the duration of the measures. The Constitutional Court has also further assessed that the law does not provide for an obligation to consult the expert and that it is unclear how the public is informed of the circumstances and professional views. On the basis of the above, the Constitutional Court found that there were five decisions adopted under the Law on Infectious Diseases, which dealt with a movement restriction, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that here the question arises to me, but what then is the procedure, which is based on the decisions adopted later on from the rulings which the Constitutional Court, by a decision, found to be contrary to the Constitution and, at the same time, ceased to apply before the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The court has not overtaken these decisions in its decision, but this is an identical legal situation. However, the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be taken into account. The Ministry of Health has prepared a complementary proposal for the Law on Infectious Diseases, of course in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision, which has been supplemented by the Coalition's parliamentary groups on the parental committee. Today is a novel of the Law on Infectious Diseases here before us and in our opinion it is in line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to amend the Law on Infectious Diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The positions of the Members of the Marjan Sarca Group will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today's amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases should implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but that is not the case. What is the substance of the decision? Among other things, the Constitutional Court wrote: “Freedom of movement is an expression of general freedom of conduct. Without freedom of movement, it is difficult to imagine individual freedom in the broadest sense of the word. Freedom of movement is a condition for the full realization of many other constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms." The Constitutional Court has even written for the right to freedom of association: "It is a fundamental constitutional value that allows freedom of expression, political will and organisation alone. The right to integration is also a starting point and has ensured a system of political pluralism without which there is no free democratic society." Those are meaningful words. In a simple summary, it means that everything is not allowed at the time of the epidemic and on behalf of the epidemic. The Constitutional Court has taken a very clear position that the Government cannot and must not be the one who, due to a broad legal basis, would restrict human rights. Whenever human rights are restricted, there is always a need to carry out a proportionality test, which means that it is always necessary to consider whether a restriction is really necessary in order to ensure a constitutionally sound objective that we are pursuing. Again, even or especially during the epidemic. What has this government done, and what does the government coalition want to do? The restrictive measures adopted in the past year by government decrees that unduly, excessively and disproportionately interfered with human rights and freedoms, such as the prohibition of the passage between municipalities and the curfew and the prohibition of assembly in the form of meetings, have now been incorporated into the legal text. Minister Hoys announced it, and it happened. Among other things, the law even introduced a ban on movement within a certain distance from the residence of an individual, and they skillfully included words such as “in particular” or “individual”. These are two very open concepts that allow this government to take other restrictive measures besides the legally envisaged measures, which are not explicitly foreseen by this amendment. More. Despite warnings and instructions from the Constitutional Court, the Government has reserved the discretionary right to decide what restrictive measures will be taken in certain situations and how long they will apply. Indeed, even after the new Government will have no time limit, but will take decisions on possible extension of restrictive measures on its own, and will still not be linked to the expert opinion of epidemiologists, nor to the possible extension of restrictive measures by a vote in the National Assembly. Let me warn you again. The Constitutional Court is very exact to write: “In restricting human rights, the use of vague terms or meaningfully open terms must not be such that the executive branch of the authorities allows for the original regulation of legal matter.” The law should specifically provide for the conditions for its introduction in each restrictive measure, and instead this government coalition adopts a law with a text that will leave the Government alone without pre-criteria and rules of the game to decide which way of restricting the freedom of movement of people will apply and how long this will apply. According to yesterday's announcement, the Prime Minister says that everything will be closed in the fall if we do not reach a sufficient degree of interception, we should be genuinely concerned about today's legal changes. And once again, on behalf of and at the expense of the epidemic, everything is not allowed. Above all, excessive and disproportionate restrictions on one's human rights are never allowed at the expense of another. If epidemiologists advocate, for example, the abolition of the ban on crossing between municipalities, if they advocate the abolition of a curfew, if they point out that cycling or peaceful meetings do not pose an epidemiological threat, or if they point out that children should return to school institutions, then no government should take this right to restrict its people simply because it is so desirable. In the LMŠ Group, we will oppose the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Fellow Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, the rest present, all together, welcome! Today, it is quite simple for us to ask whether we want to live in a country where a government, any government, can, on the basis of unspecified criteria, prescribe extraordinary measures for an indefinite period of time, which in their sense remind us of the state of emergency. Once again, I simply ask whether we want to live in a country where the government can prescribe a state of emergency for an indefinite period of time. The answer of all Democrats and Democrats in the European Union should be no. This is not a matter of debate whether we are wondering whether we are talking about a specific government. Of course, the social democrats of the current government do not trust and we know a million reasons why. However, we are not talking about a specific government; no government should have the right for an indefinite period of time in that country to prescribe an emergency situation. We are aware that the law before us was created on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. But the problem is that the solution is wrong. In our view, the solution is such that the Constitutional Court, once it re-judges it, will find the same, but probably with more firm words. Of course, it is a country and must be prepared for special circumstances. It is understandable that the State must have a system designed to react quickly. It is therefore quite clear that the executive branch of the Authority for a very limited period is the one that can defend Slovenia. However, emphasis: limited measures for a limited period. The proposal before us is different. The opposition parties with the amendments tabled indicate what the main concern is. But there is much more to worry about this dangerous and harmful law, the government law before us. The important concern is that the government has no limitations. There are no limits to seven days, to 14 days, to a month, to 60 days. In a black scenario, and in this country, black scenarios are too common, we can actually get into a completely wrong system. That's why we're proposing amendments. I suggest you accept them, but of course you will not, as is the custom on the right. It is my duty to read before you a very clear warning from a respected legal expert who has been disciplined because of his thinking on one of the private higher education, right-hand sides of the favored institutions these days. You read it yesterday. Andraž Teršek is the first legal expert to have clearly identified himself. He wrote it like that. »The novel actually, the lawyer would write de facto and de jure, not only interfering with fundamental human rights and constitutional rights and freedoms – abolishing them! In an apparently unconstitutional way, it provides the executive branch with Bianca's view that she does anything with people at any time and for as long as she wants. With their freedom of movement, their personal freedom, their right to privacy, their intimate and family life. This unheard novel, the anti-political nature of the anti-constitutional abuse of the law as a form of an anti-democratic and anti-legal political manifesto, which legitimizes not only the possibility but also the fact that the total political abuse of the legislative process has been rounded up by the law and the three novelties in a single anti-law and total political law." Dear Members, I appeal that we reject a harmful and dangerous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. All the amendments tabled to Articles 2 and 3 relate to similar content, and I therefore propose that the discussion of both Articles and their amendments be carried out together. Since there is no objection, I therefore put to the debate Articles 2 and 3 and the two amendments of the LMŠ Group of Members, the two amendments of the SD Group of Members and the two amendments of the SAB Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I see that interest is in the debate. I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word mag. Dusan Verbic, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will somehow be relatively brief in this debate, because we are more or less the same colleagues and colleagues who have already been to the Health Committee after the content and kind of look in the National Assembly. I must admit that I have followed with great attention the presentation of views, which in one way or another literally refers to so-called Articles 2 and 3 as you said. I can immediately say that in a number of cases I cannot agree with each other, even though I do not fully accept the decision of the Constitutional Court and absolutely with the decision of the Constitutional Court, I simply have no intention of delineating or defining myself in any way. However, I can say very clearly and unequivocally that the Constitutional Court's decision on this law is certainly not as harsh as it was in this debate and today it has also been presented by individuals. The fact is that even if we refer to different legal experts in our discussions and presentations, I will also allow myself, but I will not by name, I think that the professors of constitutional law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana are very competent persons and that which is very important to me and is really connected to this so-called articles 2 and 3 I will only take the floor. The fact is that this is a position for my very well-established professor: “The Constitutional Court, by means of the method of finding decisions, was at the hands of the Government, not using the technique of finding the abolition of decisions, but merely repealing, which in practice gives the Government and the National Assembly a correctional exam.” Above all, it adds here that this is a perfectly normal gesture in the ordinary society. I think that the content of the message is very credible, but it is true that we can interpret each word or sentence in our own way in political debates and thoughts. The fact is that, on behalf of and at the expense of the epidemic, somehow, at least as far as I am concerned personally, I must be aware of and expect from many others that life at the time of the outbreak is practically put into a completely different way of life. Any measure taken by the executive branch of the Authority, I myself assess that it must be followed primarily by protection, human health, in particular the preservation of health against the epidemic. But what are these paths from a political point of view or my own opinion, I'm kind of quite objective and I understand the different views and the like. But I'd like to make something very clear here. The right to freedom of movement, the right to association and many rights are necessarily an integral part of every democratic society, and this is true in a fairly high pyramid of these human rights in some normal circumstances. But when it comes to what we are faced with now is quite a good time, I am firmly convinced that these are not absolute rights. The fact is that simply such rights in some hierarchy, which are also related to a number of other rights, and I believe that the Constitutional Court has weighed, as a result of which there is also such a position, which is not very strict, according to my modest assessment, went in the direction that simply in assessing these so-called rights in the hierarchy, that it is high on top and already almost close to absolute rights at the time of the epidemic, a simple right to health and health conservation. Here I have to admit that there are probably a lot of such thinkers who think that way. However, when we talk about government measures, at least in the current political polarisation, I think that this is often blurred. In any case, I am in the position that the executive branch of power or government, which is bound by the electorate, regardless of which government it is, must act quickly and effectively and also in the interest of people, in this case in the protection of health when the epidemic occurs. I believe that everything is not ideal, I believe that there are some things that might also be slightly different, but when we talk about human rights, I think there should be no significant difference in the debates. The fact is that the current situation has been, for some time now, when we are talking about the National Assembly, the issue of the efficiency of the government, as I mentioned earlier, in this current political polarisation. Any proposal by the four opposition parliamentary groups, which I believe is well-intentioned, I see with a few different views, perhaps also on the basis of experience from the past. One is a desire that is a letter on paper or a letter in law, and the other is how can decisions be taken to protect health or maintain health during an epidemic that we know is an emergency, and I can say that this so-called efficiency or rapid response and decision-making to preserve health is significantly hampered. So once again, I can say that for me, as far as the amendments are concerned, it's a little bit controversial. For on the parental committee, if we look at what we have accepted, we have accepted essentially what is being proposed in half of these amendments, which are being tabled. The fact is that we have added a new line in Article 8, paragraph 1, and Article 8, paragraph 3, has also changed and has somehow followed the fact that, even in the event of a decision relating to the characteristics of communicable diseases, it is immediately notified to the National Assembly. Here again, I am asked the question of where that separation or jurisdiction is, if I may say so, the executive branches and the legislative branches of power. Alone, however, I am very much in the position that the executive branch of power is the authority that has to carry out operationally defined activities. And that there will be no misunderstanding, I am absolutely very much on the side of protecting all rights, but if we have an emergency situation, and the indisputable epidemic of covida are an emergency situation, I think that there should be a great degree of tolerance and also understanding that we cannot simply put all rights at the moment of time and the situation in which society is located in the first place. I no longer intend to advertise below. I can say that I believe that the parent committee has adopted the appropriate articles 2 and 3 and therefore I do not support these amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Let's get the mags ready. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Respectable all present and all those accompanying this meeting, especially citizens and citizens! I, Violeta Tomić, Member of the Left, declare in full consciousness that I do not support this law on communicable diseases. It will also be done by the left party, and I hope that that part of the opposition that votes according to its conscience has it. In fact, it is a government based on the suspicion that someone is infected, thinks individuals and groups to isolate. Notwithstanding the fact that this law is a grave violation of fundamental human rights, it is accepted by the swift procedure, without further discussion and cannot be submitted to a referendum. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No amendment is helping. The fact is, this law is harmful and unacceptable. You know, people have enough. They have enough repression, measures that do not work, double criteria that allow authorities to walk around without masks, unite, walk around inn while citizens and citizens are punished with high penalties for very small offences, eating sandwiches, joining together, schoolchildren who want me not to list, because I do not have enough time to list all the stupidities of this government that we have been able to suffer at this time of the epidemic. People have enough Robins who beat citizens and citizens who read the Constitution, which is so smooth and vehemently violated by this government. This law is also unconstitutional because the Constitutional Court has challenged Article 39 of the UNB, since it authorizes the Government to prohibit or restrict the movement and collection of the population by its own discretion in the case of communicable diseases, without legal restrictions and criteria. They originally decide to restrict the rights of individuals. This law gives the power of executive power to do with us, in fact, whatever it wants. And let me remind you of the acquisition of protective equipment, the inaction masks, the ventilators, the enrichment of this government's comrades, the granting of concessions, the collapse of the health system, the death of too many elderly people who were infected in their homes, and the death of too many people who had other diseases, not covids, but we were only talking about covid for a year. So let's not talk about corruption, which has been innumerable, privatisation. Tell me how and to whom the citizens can trust. This government is abusing an epidemic for some state of emergency. Rhetoricism is a war, too. We're fighting, we're fighting the enemy, and so on. You used the epidemic to steal our country. You stole our country. And then you had Jelk Kacin's communicator, who goes and says, "let's have some fun." Fine. Yesterday we listened to John, who told us, the Prime Minister, that if we don't have 70 percent of the graft by autumn, we'll all be closed again. Fine. Wet dreams of all authors. You know, the fear and doubts of the citizens who have multiplied at this time precisely because of the nonsense that the government is doing all the time, and the inconsistencies, must be addressed and resolved with one sensitivity, respectfully, and by no means with repression and coercion, as you would have done. 4. Article 4 of this Act states that the competent inspector has the right and duty to restrict or prohibit movement on the basis of suspicion, I stress that persons are suspected of being sick of a particular communicable disease. In this way, the government will be able to remove a fine individual or groups that do not like him on the basis of suspicion. And this government can't be trusted. And with this government, John Janša, this is absolutely possible. So he wants to limit the movement, the gathering, the protests, the peaceful cyclists, the passages between the municipalities, the curfew. You know, the law is opposed by the majority of citizens and citizens, and I sincerely hope, but I sincerely hope that most Members and Members will also oppose it, because it is an extremely grave violation of human rights, which is unconstitutional and unacceptable and no epidemic can be an excuse for reducing human rights and disregarding the Constitution. I will vote absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Meira Hot, Mr Miha Kordish is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court, by decision, decides that Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases is inconsistent with the Constitution because it is not sufficiently established because it is not predictable enough because it is not sufficiently defined and so on. The government's response is not to draw up some appropriate legislation that would be the subject of a broad public debate where the entire public concerned could make its comprehensive comments, because it is only the lives of people, it is public health, it is a matter of consistent respect for the rule of law and the legality and constitutionality of procedures. No, in a well - known way, the government is preparing a law that is totally contrary to the spirit of this constitutional decision. And that's so sad. If we may have been a little optimistic at the beginning of the new Minister of Health's appearance to take into account Hippocrates' oath and to respect the principles of ethics and morality, it is absolutely clear by this law that this is not so much the opposite, and it is regrettable. It is clear to all of us, and this has been said several times now, that the confidence of the public, that the confidence of citizens and citizens in this government is not only in the government, but generally in all politics, because we are not exceptions here, is in politics the confidence of our citizens and citizens at an absolute minimum. And that is truly regrettable. Yesterday, we are hearing about how all political parties should be called upon to be vaccinated, but at the same time you are proposing such legal solutions, which have all put at risk those who are lawyers, such as those who are wrong-doers. Lawyers have even gone up in the luft, and that's absolutely justified. Because the lawyer greatly appreciates these human rights and freedoms, which are a democratic standard for which it took centuries to fight, and you have abolished them within a few months, all under the cover of saving people's lives, all under the cover of restricting the spread of infectious covid disease. All under the cover of saving people, an arbitrary state, a country where democratic standards have become foreign and unknown, is being established. And once again, that's sad. I'll probably repeat the sad word in today's debate more than once. The vaccination strategy itself does not work because you yourself said or heard from the head of the communication group in the vaccination strategy, that there is no confidence and that you will probably not achieve the objectives from this point of view. And then what is the government's response? Yeah, let's go scare people. If we don't reach 60-70-degree interception by the end of August, everything will be closed in the fall. It'll all close, but it won't be the government's fault, people will be guilty because they didn't want to be vaccinated. Yeah, why not? Ask yourself why not. Why is the level of mistrust on such a low level? Yeah, I'm angry, and I'm sad, and I'm sorry, but this debate is pissing me off, and this debate makes me sad. When you get to that level, I get sad. We live in a truly catastrophic climate, a lack of confidence, in scepticism to government solutions. And in such an climate, a law is proposed that so drastically restricts human rights and freedoms and gives such powers to the government, again after a reduced procedure, without adequate information, without public participation, creating extraordinary consequences for people. Yeah, well, how are you gonna create a climate of trust if you're in a climate like this? How?Oh, my God! How can people trust you, if it feels like it's all being done in secret and all of a sudden it's just getting out of the way. I have also received such questions as how no one has informed you how you have done so in secret. You're talking about some trust, but at the same time, everything's being done in secret. No wonder we're where we are. And now this law introduces a very controversial, questionable and absolute solution, at least in my opinion, which is still contrary to the Constitution. In fact, the previous Act gave certain authorities, which should not be given at all, a very strong mandate in the context of restrictions on movement and quarantine, i.e. bodies which are not qualified at all to issue those decisions. And that wasn't the best thing in the law. This law is now merely continuing with this practice and you are not really implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. In fact, you're just creating some kind of legal basis and content that was actually used in the past year, but only in a different way, with sub-legal acts. Then you had to be reminded by the Constitutional Court that we are still living in a democratic country where Parliament has certain powers. And I will read to you because the court's decision is very well written about what the principle of democracy means and what it requires. It requires that the most important decisions, in particular those relating to citizens, be taken by directly elected Members by law. The Executive Authority may act only on a substantive basis and within the framework of the law. It also requires the principle of the division of power. And since legislative powers under the Constitution are conferred on the National Assembly, other State authorities must not modify or regulate legal matter independently. Such a very good reminder for action, a very good reminder of what the rule of law means, what constitutionality means, what legality means, what the National Assembly in which you are sitting today means, because it has been very consistently forgotten in the past year. When the Constitutional Court finally found this — and we had waited a long time for this decision — the Constitutional Court did not hope to go so far in the past because they were also afraid of what the spread of this infectious disease meant. They were afraid, too. But you went so far with these interventions that the Constitutional Court had to cut down and make it clear where the borders were. Then they tell you that this law has to be supplemented. Your solution, however, is to simply write into the law the powers of the government, which in fact it has already adopted and implemented in the last year, under the cover of creating and addressing all the problematic aspects of the legislation in force. The fact is that this law does not have any safeguards to prevent the arbitrary functioning of the government. In fact, the ignorance of the legislative branch of power continues completely and the entire decision-making process is again concentrated in one branch, i.e. in the executive branch of government. It is once again a complete derogation from Parliament, it is a violation of the principle of power-sharing, it is an underestimation of parliamentary democracy, it is ignorance towards its own people, it is a concentration of power in one body, which is absolutely contrary to the principle of democracy, which I have already read to you about, what it means. In fact, with the proposed amendments, you are conferring certain powers on the Government that, in the event of a fight against an infectious disease, it may take measures with a de facto unlimited period of time. There are no professional criteria that would bind the decision, give it legal powers to have unlimited, inadmissible, unlawful, unconstitutional, disproportionate, unfair and unlawful interference with constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, by measures such as restrictions on movement, by measures such as restrictions on movement outside certain hours, even certain isolation centres, and here I ask for clarifications. This is indeed a distasteful and sad practice for me because the Constitutional Court's decision refers to unacceptable measures last year, anti-constitutional serious infringements into fundamental human rights and freedoms. Instead of now entering into the law very strict, very strict criteria or boundaries in taking such measures in order to create specific, clear, predictable criteria under strict and consistent parliamentary control, as should be normal in a democratic country, you are doing exactly the opposite. You, in mockery of the rule of law, the Constitutional Court and Parliament, have essentially prepared a new law that only allows for the legality of measures. But these measures will not be legitimate. Legality does not mean that it is legitimate. And at least in my opinion, they will not be moral or ethical, because such a restriction of fundamental rights, such an intervention in some personal dignity, personal freedom of an individual, coercion, will of authority, repression and punishment cannot be a legitimate normal response to the epidemic. This is not a normal response, this is not a normal way to limit the spread of infectious diseases. This is just a step towards a very difficult arbitral state, a step from a democratic state to an arbitrary one. And that's basically an excuse. This is one excuse, a cover that will allow you to fully concentrate your power in the executive branch of power. And you can see that because you've been taking the epidemic all the time just as an alibi for asserting your own interests. And this law, not only in my opinion, does not, indeed, eliminate many lawyers in essence the unconstitutionality, but it does not remove the legal void that the Constitutional Court has established. In fact, it only tolerates some arbitrary rule so far by decrees to some legal level. Since you have a majority, you can afford it. And believe me, this does not mean that this total ignorance of the law, the total ignorance of the rule of law and the constitution will stand because this law, if adopted, will undoubtedly be subject to constitutional judgment. I think that the result of this constitutional judgment will be exactly the same as it was in almost all cases last year, when the Constitutional Court ruled on the conduct or laws of this government, and this is that you act arbitrarily, excessively, disproportionately, unfairly, unlawfully and illegally, and use the epidemic to achieve your own goals and interests. Since colleagues also have something to discuss, I'm going to finish here slowly. So absolutely alone, I will not support and appeal to the other Members and Members of Parliament that you can only manage so much ethics and judgment, think about citizens and citizens and maintain democratic standards that we have fought for many years or have fought in the past that we can talk about human rights and freedoms that are normal and self-sustaining today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the previous point, I opened the position of the Group of Members, which I represented as an advocate, saying that the Government understood the covida-19 epidemic not as the biggest crisis in the last hundred years, but as an opportunity. The same can be said in limiting movement and in the law on communicable diseases. Whether it is the decisions that the Government has taken out of hand, or whether it is the legal mother who transmitted it before the National Assembly. This law on communicable diseases, as we see it, follows somehow the same logic of measures from the past year and a half, which we can sum up in limiting people rather than epidemics. That's exactly what she's been doing in the past. On the one hand, as citizens, as political entities in the municipalities, she denied them the right to legitimate protests, regardless of where and how the covida epidemic spreads or not, and on the other hand, in the role of workers when they went to work, she also forced them into infected factories, into infected industrial zones, instead of protecting people from certain urgent activities and risks of infection. And the epidemic traveled throughout the country, despite the fact that people were pushed into their congregations. The crown spread through the workplaces, through factories, through which it went back to the households, back to the congregations, and then onward. The final result is more than 4,000 400 dead. Much of these deaths can be described as excessive deaths due to such government incompetence. Of course, I understand that in an epidemic such as the one we are facing, the movement of citizens and citizens must also be limited. But, as it is said, the government has restricted this movement and intends to restrict it by law in its treatment, not for the purpose of public health and the pursuit of public health, which should be the first priority, but for the purpose of repression and political restraint. Certain restrictions on movement make sense if, in this way, quarantined areas you systematically clean up infections with the virus and reduce the hotspots in which infections spread, and in this way gradually also the infection that has escaped control, replace, control it and eventually push it out of the country, relieve the health system and so on. None of this was done by the government of John Janša. She did not want to do it, nor was she able to do it, and in the fourth wave that is promised to us, it will be no different. The same incompetence has also been demonstrated in the organization of vaccination, which is around 40% of the population's stricken population, which is a guarantee for the next cycle of the delta strain disaster in autumn. John Janša as Prime Minister instead of dealing with how to better organize vaccinations, how to gain the confidence of the people he has trapped, the people he has used in his old practice of the plague are threatened with being imprisoned again. The Law on Infectious Diseases is the main tool with which the Government intends to restrict civil liberties and rights of movement, for the third time in this debate I stress, not to eradicate infection and to protect public health, which it refers to, but to cut wings to political opposition. Even in autumn, we can expect to follow this hoof that we have now seen three times. Even when it is dangerous for people to go to work, they will be forced to go to work because they will have to get their daily bread, even when they are infected, they cannot always hope for a hundred percent compensation for their absence from work. That's what the government has taken care of. For presentation in the workplace, so that the infection will go as wide as possible. That is why I have initially said that the government, with its past practice and with this law, restricts people, not the epidemic, so I will also vote against this law. There's something I need to define. As far as legal kosher is concerned and it is good that we have mechanisms for a limited duration of movement limitation measures and a feedback loop through the National Assembly, as the amendments of other opposition groups say, this is only a letter on paper. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have been following in this National Assembly since the Memorial, in the last year and a half in particular, is a voting machine. And it becomes all at once, however, if the Government is committed to coming after about one month from the start of some movement limitation measures, to the National Assembly for the power to proceed with its actions, but if it has its coalition members built up, which are slightly swinging, it may have bought with such and different candy and projects and then simply with the majority of votes, with the voting machine, incites the support it needs to continue its repression. So I think that the whole law on communicable diseases and the whole concept of handling the epidemic should be treated in a completely different way than the government of Janez Janša, which was never a priority for human health. But if we put public health and the restriction of the spread of infection at the forefront of this issue, then what do we get? Yes, the possibility of restricting movement, but if it is systematically prevented from spreading an infection and cleaning infections from areas where movement is restricted in one way or another, and that these restrictions of movement are universal, but not that people are still being forced to work even when they are sick, even to work in infected factories or the other side of the same coin, so that measures of restriction or non-restriction are adapted to partial individual needs, I do not know, one or other privileged Janša regime or regime of any other government, as it does not matter at all. To go to the country, you come out of the country, depending on how Jelko Kacin goes to Krk to clean up his pool. Then on the other hand, you have a food delivery guy who eats burek on Prešeren's market and the police give him 400 euros in fines. Or the family in Kranj, who ate croissants, also cashed a 400-euro stand. For the first time, the main problem of Janša's restrictive measures was that they were aimed at repression of citizens as political actors, and for the second time that they were completely ineffective from the point of view of public health. It is precisely because the government has taken measures with them to oppress the street opposition, not to protect the health of citizens and citizens. Of course, it will defend the profits of various factories, which have also worked further in the epidemic than there is nothing, they have not protected the employees, but were eventually rewarded with rich state subsidies. But the price was paid by the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have four panellists. First, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, get ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Vice President. We've got a marriage ahead of us that hasn't deserved the name of the law for a while. This is because it does not take into account the basic principles of how, for the first time, it corrects the errors established by the Constitutional Court, secondly, how the law is passed, which is so decisive and important and affects practically every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, as a result of certain decisions. And thirdly, we have a situation where the ruling coalition or government says, "You know, this law was written 20 years ago, and we didn't write it, and we didn't blame it for everything it says in this law." However, they do not say that they have changed it at least three times. And it is they who have set certain changes, of course not the way they are now defined. To make the measure of dissatisfaction even greater, on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s decision, a great expert on the law on communicable diseases, Mr Hojs, appears again and says the following sentence: “Well, if that is the case, we will prescribe the decree and we will write it down all that it says in the decree now, we will write just in law.” And that's exactly what happened. Of course Hojs did not do this, Hojs probably only voted in the government as a member of the government, but the Minister of Health went to implement this instruction smoothly and did just that in this law. Now, of course, the answer is that the Minister of Health is not here. Minister of Health, you did not go to the field of health and protection of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, you went to the field of human rights, you went to the field of constitutional rights. Today, I can guarantee you, not one constitutional lawyer, more lawyers and more institutions have already said publicly that what is written in the law today is automatic and immediately mature for a review in the Constitutional Court if it is also adopted in such a form. Now! In addition, while a little further, it must be said that the proposer who brought this law to the National Assembly did not work so hard, nor did he try so hard to at least correct the name of the Institute, which for many years has no longer been a public health institute, but is the National Institute for Public Health, NIJZ, sometimes an IVZ – an Institute for Health Protection. The Republic of Slovenia, or the Government, amended the founding decision and changed the name to the National Institute for Public Health, NIJZ. In the law, however, we still have a dictatorship, in Article 2: “If there is a risk of other communicable diseases that could endanger the health of the inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, at the proposal of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, decide to apply measures” blah blah blah. [[…]] Sorry, there is no such institute in Slovenia, there is no such institute. Now I can play a little bit: if there is no such institute, then of course, what the Legal and Legal Service has found is that there are only some incomprehensible terms for this government, such as epidemiological and medical professions. Because he doesn't even know how to name his own national institute. And then say and write we get immediately below the expert group that can be such and different, and these expert groups will be regardless of the composition of the expert committee that proposes certain solutions. So it's a bizarre repair, I admit, bizarre. The main corrections that should have happened are just coming. One of the main ones is next. You know, the difference is if, on the basis of Article 2, which says that “if there is a danger”, the next sentence says, and decides to introduce these changes, “the measures laid down by this law shall apply to them”. And then the following sentence reads: “The decision must be notified without delay to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.” I think the time has come when we will have to discuss whether this government will keep the National Assembly informed or simply make a proposal for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. It has proved to be an eclectic violation of the Constitution and laws, and it is time for this government to bring a proposal to the National Assembly, which the National Assembly will decide on. This is absolutely necessary if we are to imprison and give a guardian to this government, which is terrifying to me, because the law on infectious diseases is not written for the government of Janez Janša, but is written for full executive power regardless of who is leading it. But this government simply whistles at all the most fundamental rules of the game that we should go to in this society. Why is this law on communicable diseases so important? It is particularly important because in this law the Government has rewritten and elected the right, especially in Article 3, when we are talking about the basic law in Article 39, where the Law and Law Service makes it very clear and draws attention to the following. This is, I quote: "In article 3, which also has the highest weight in the bill, there are more comments, but it is common for all to point out that there is still an existing arbitrariness of government decision on measures against the occurrence of communicable disease." Be it because it is an open or inaccurate list of measures, allowing the word “especially” to be used, or because it is also possible to impose such additional measures on diseases that are not new and unknown or which are otherwise known but cause new complications in the treatment. It's a little complicated, but it's very understandable and clear. In other words, it means that by word of mouth, in particular in certain measures, this government has chosen the right not only to introduce certain measures in certain diseases, but then to say in particular, but does not indicate which others are, except those in particular. And she has very open scissors to decide what she's really going to decide. Second thing. In citing what diseases they are, it is even more so in a certain part, he says that for any government in fact, it can impose similar measures or measures as they say in the Law on Infectious Diseases. Do you know what that means? In other words, this means that for any disease that would allow or show similar results of rapid spread, although this disease is not mentioned in the Infectious Diseases Act, it can simply order the same measures. I'm sorry, no offense, but I'm going to say very loudly here: who does this government think it is? We went through 1990, 1991 into some other system. I hope you understand that we are no longer in the totalitarian system, where simply human rights count nothing more and can be walked by anyone who has five minutes of time with Hojs at the head. It just can't take it! We have also recently received an interesting opinion from the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy on the five sides, where, of course, they speak precisely about the proposal of the law on communicable diseases and explain in very detail and detail what all of these anomalies appear in the law on communicable diseases. Excuse me, by the way, to mention, this is not a fiche, it is a matter of respectable legal experts who also present their thoughts on such laws, which we deal with and even accept in the National Assembly. The following things make this very clear. Around taking measures to declare the epidemic, what are the problems with it? At the same time, on the insufficient accuracy of the legal powers conferred by this same executive power. They talk about the need for a gradual approach to human rights. This government simply does not know this sequence, but simply determines the overall and even the measures that are actually counter-effective and we have seen them in the first phase of the epidemic, in the second and third stages and simply did not want to say goodbye to them. And even with the current law of the sequence of these measures, it does not recognise at all. What's more, I'm only gonna give you one case so we can know what we're talking about. We are primarily talking about the work when you start a curfew, limit the movement at a certain time, and do not really explain what the problem is. Since the virus doesn't know the time, it doesn't understand that it can't spread between 8:00 and 10:00 p.m., but at 10:00 p.m., it starts to become full-blown, and then people have to be hidden in their homes and banned from moving. At the same time, let us take another measure, which is to prohibit detention in certain establishments, in closed premises due to the so-called faster spread in closed spaces. Two actions that fight with each other. They're totally fighting. As a result, Dr. Fafangel, an epidemiologist, has explained this several times. And once he even stepped out of this famous expert commission, he said that because he can no longer participate in such non-professional activities, especially since politics takes over everything in its own hands. The next issue discussed by this network or the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy. The discussion, or very vividly, describes the absence of a legal basis for certain human rights. Well, in this marriage, they're all blurry. One of these is definitely interesting. Because I can see that this government doesn't like laws, but it loves everything less and less than the law, the regulations, the decrees, and they're going fast. But you know why? For a simple person who is not skilled and does not know this matter, it is necessary to make it very clear. This is that, of course, the Government with the lower acts can regulate everything itself, does not need the National Assembly, does not need any consensus, does not need to publicize with us and, of course, does not need to listen to any criticism. But he simply goes to the government or doesn't even have to go to the government, which in writing, nice little on the phone, they actually decide and change the act. What it looks like, you see it now. A three-day measure has been taken to ensure that all who are vaccinated, sick or tested from red countries are not allowed to come to Slovenia, but now after three days on the basis of a proposal from the expert commission, hop cup will change this quickly, correct it, and in three days we will again be able to walk from the Red States to all patients and vaccinateds. Here you see this nonsense and the illogicalness of this government, how he is able to make these decisions. Or, in other words, more beautiful: typical of Hoys, I'd say. Next thing I know, I'll give you another case so we don't talk in vain. Inspectors have to act by law. By law, not by any other law, as it says in this law. But no, in order to have a wide range of illegal acts again, it is necessary to give inspectors from here to forever all the possibilities to apply any regulations, because they will feel that at some point. How it works, but we have seen in one of many epidemics, I think in the other, when we had a so-called interesting story that the whole of Slovenia laughed at – we should not eat in closed rooms and inn facilities, but if it was business-to-business, then it could be from here to wherever you want. And what happened? Yeah, everybody started eating business-to-business! Everybody! I know people who never had any business-to-business lunch, but they had espa and he went business-to-business is. And the inspector, after some act, of course, decided this was possible. But the fact is, we all know how that was possible. Someone just invented it at MGRT and added and achieved that they went this business-to-business in, no one communicated, most members of the government didn't even know what it was, they had no idea until the so-called affair of the Minister of Economy took place when he arrived there in Prekmurje on the so-called promiscu or whatever. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Could you, Jani, stop, would you? We're gonna open a buffet downstairs, and you can consume it there. What's important is that in these places is that you're actually hungry? [[…]] Are you hungry? Vice President, let him calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Please respect the rules of procedure. Don't bother the speaker. Mr. Jani, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're hungry we're so different, but there's an open restaurant down there, so you can go downstairs and eat. And we simply realized at that time that there was some sandwich that didn't exist, but for those needs there was that sandwich and we could figure out that there was a diet business-to-business. Such a distinction in such laws simply cannot be made, and in this law on communicable diseases we allow this – that with famous phrases such as “in particular”, “with other regulations”, “with other acts”, it can be determined what is desired. Then we have the next issue, the disproportionate possibility of a total ban on public meetings. Not only do we have disproportionateity, but not only do all those who oppose this government oppose these objections – and this to the government with the Prime Minister of the Government, who had so much to say about freedom of public expression and has so many times expressed how important this matter is, but it is precisely what is constitutional right, the constitutional category. Let me understand that. It just seems that because you don't understand it, the Constitutional Court will have to decide again. Then you have an interesting debate, and I will try slowly to conclude how, say, one of the constitutional lawyers interestingly described that the law on communicable diseases has essentially become a political manifesto and has not remained a health law, as was the original purpose, and this for infectious diseases. I quote: “The new UNB introduced a revised quarantine measure for all diseases for which the Minister of Health, namely the Government, the executive branch of the government, is making even better decisions today’s policy. The measure is written in the law in such a way as to constitute a political decision, not a professional one, i.e. a medical-epidemiological one. This is a very clear example of political will and arbitrariness, which by definition means a tyranny move. With the urgent emphasis that this is not only about restricting freedom of movement, but about taking away personal freedom." This was not said by Jani Möderndorfer, as some might say, but was said by a respected constitutional lawyer who does not write these sentences just like that and puts everything at stake, including his expertise. It further makes very clear the argument, and it is clear that, in fact, this law on communicable diseases represents a serious violation of human rights, a violation of the Constitution and, above all, does not reach what everyone would like, namely, that we have clear criteria, clear criteria and, in the end, clear conditions for when a matter can happen. I'm surprised, but I'm really surprised that there's no minister sitting with us today in such an important marriage. On the board, I understand that the Secretary of State did the left hand share in defending this law, but today he should be with us as Minister. The Minister is the one who is in the final stages also the guardian of this law. The problem is, and I am most afraid that in the end Mr Hojs will have more to say than the Minister of Health. You know, it's sad, it's sad that in all the true democratic countries in this epidemic, where we can compare how things are done, either by experts or by the Minister of Health, sometimes even by civil protection and the like, but we mostly have repressors. The representative of the repressive body is certainly Mr Hojs, one of the key ones and has the most to say about the Law on Infectious Diseases. As long as this is the case, the protection of human rights is at risk. As one of my predecessors said, some have also given their lives so that we can have respect today and have a rule of law. This, of course, is what we are doing down there. The President of the Government today also advocates in the European Parliament the question of the rule of law, and in relation to the rule of law, this law is also one of those laws that are on the test stone. Given the majority that appears, I fear that this law will be passed, and by the time it is adopted, it will, of course, I believe and I am sure, go back to the Constitutional Court. I want to know what phrases you'll have when the Members try to repeat that it wasn't an article and similar nonsense. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the Constitutional Court will have to do that in another. We have already looked at these cases in the Slovenian space, when, I remember you, Parliament or Government did not want to establish the Municipality of Ankaran, did not and did not want to. Finally, it was established by the Constitutional Court, which is a kind of precedent, usurped the power that only the National Assembly has after the constitution, and established the Municipality of Ankaran. I'm afraid it'll be something like the U.N.B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. It is wonderful if you can speak after Meira has gone to constitutional depths and Jani to all the necessary width. What did the Constitutional Court actually tell us? It has told us that the epidemics that have plagued us can't be fought by the government in some way by decrees, if I express myself in the way of my children. If you have read the entire story about this and also the separate views of certain constitutional judges – more rarely than they hope to say, you also have an interview, because for 15 months we are living a rising society of fear – what the Constitution said is in fact a very mild version. If I have the right memory, it's only version eight, the right one was a lot more determined. This is where I wonder who we're afraid of. One 62-year-old? Here I call upon all the professions, not only the constitutional professions, not to allow themselves such silence of professions anymore or if you want the silence of an organ. Because we have a big problem here, too, and I think it's at least half a year behind schedule. Jani mentioned Minister Hojs most of the time. When I listened to him, I remembered a well-known book, a well-known criticism of lacanism, which in the Slovenian translation has the title “The Effect of Gospodal. ” This irrevocably indistinguishable superminister is playing this role in this government, he is obviously an expert in pigs, pearls, constitutional topics, overseeing the former Minister of Health, implementing epidemiological measures, and also the repressive authorities in the neighbourhood, together with his mother as representative of civil society, to forgive me. When I read what you've actually done, you've prescribed those same minds into marriage, and you're getting a lot of grumpy at the Constitutional Court. The Chairman of the Health Committee has even spoken: what will happen there, I don't know, people, in their own words, is giving us the brains. Then I told them that the German Constitutional Court for one member or member is even more brief than ours, and there, somehow, when I read some of their cases, including about TTIP and something like that, I didn't hear. Now that I'm trying to think of it all together, I can't help but remember the information desk. And you'll say, this Duck is out of his mind. I just read Martin Prević's book recently, and you also have it in Slovenian translation, The History of the Golega Island. In fact, the Yugoslav communists, who were perhaps even the most Stalinist, then how did anti-Stalinism go? I'm in the way of Stalinism. And apparently, after 40 years from that youth officer, the current president of the government is one of the last Stalinists we have. They'd probably throw him out of the Chinese party, which is now celebrating a 100-year-old. Much of what this government has given birth in 15 months will sooner or later land in a museum of madness. I don't know if this museum will still be at the Castle of Cmurek or not. If I could just give you one example. What is most dangerous to you in Slovenia? Smurfs, socks. Do you remember? Smurfs are the most dangerous thing. The expert groups that somehow fit into this law – because we have some history that the expert groups were almost without representatives and representatives of the epidemiological profession, are still very much so today. The way in which you wrote and wanted to row all of us and the Constitutional Court – I would not support this law even if it said that the Vice-President or Vice-President of the Government should be an epidemiologist or an epidemiologist. Meira also gave you a very good explanation of the relationship between the two branches of power. The government shall inform the National Assembly. What's the government, some teenager?Oh, my God! "Daddy, I'm going to be a little late today, it's going to take a little longer, we're going to have a party, I have to sober up." This government needs to be sober, too. We have very briefly written, and I'm getting a little bit of the 110th article on my liver, but you know, even a certain one that you're going with the unrelated MPs now, and you're busting your chest for a year, you've been holding on to this government's good staff. If I mention a Mariborian to us when the government in a government report – after both, and a small and large stop – you will only come to explain this to us – instilled in us conclusions that you have burned and accepted here. Even then, it was clear that if there was an ornament under Cerar, if there was some ornament under Sharc, under John Janša, the National Assembly through the eyes, supported by those who support this government, is some superfluous mushy pooper who would almost prefer to be cut off. This government is not only something that can grieve me, as our colleague said, but this government is irresponsible, and this government is also dangerous in its actions. I agree with Janie, although I also understand Miha Kordiš's concerns, we do not write laws for one government or another, such as, say, I don't know, the law on what the President of the State is supposed to do is written as they wrote because it was known that Kučan would be President at the time. We adopt laws in Parliament – why? To regulate certain important social activities by public use of the mind. After all, we are 90 of those elected, not bound by any guidance that we are most responsible for, but we have taken this difficulty for 2 million 100,000 people plus those who do not have citizenship and who are also protected by the Constitution and something else in this territorial aggregation called Slovenia. This is also why the amendments that we tabled, some together, some of each parliamentary group of the democratic opposition, in this way that the Parliament is actually doing what it is supposed to do. Not that anyone – but not necessarily Janez Janša, after this law, here, hypothetically speaking, I become the President of the Government and I say, wait, the shadow find is so dangerous, the shous, there is not yet, you will not go to the balcony, we will lock you up until the shadow finds, and there is no festival, and also Grandma will not be spalling before the saxophone byte, certainly if the salary goes away. I'd be glad if it was some kind of Lent sketch, but I'm afraid it's not. In fact, this law could also be read in this way. Here I wrote something like this – when I was becoming a slightly more serious political being, I am a 1969 year – in the second half of the 1980s, at least in Slovenia I would not hope to propose as a law because we would have p bi-bi-bi- would be justified. [[…]] You're here hoping. Why do you hope that? Yeah, because we let you. I hope that this permit is over very soon. What is called a right in Slovenia, which is in fact one big bluff or fake news, will probably need two or three mandates to be established if I don't do it. Of course I will vote against such abuse. If there's too little courage left, there's a lot of courage on the stand, this thing will fall on the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State! I was going to seduce my debate in a slightly different direction, but my colleague Trček very much talked me out of it. I think we're here in the esteemed National Assembly. Unfortunately, we're not in the classroom. Mr. Duck pulled two-thirds of the ballast. I'm sorry, it's a shame that Mr. Duck left the hall and won't have a chance to listen to me on his way to the office. Two-thirds of ballast, from the Goleg Island — then I was not born, and I can't connect the Goleg Island with this law on infectious diseases — until he mentioned the communists. I'm a little skeptical here, too, because in that party that belongs to her, at least they say the proud heirs of the Communists are. And I would call on all the members, all the colleagues and colleagues to be respectful in the debate. Here, too, there was a complaint across the board, we all know, and it has been proven that the pig has studied, if I am not mistaken, even mastered it, your former President Dejan Židan, if I am not mistaken, was also the director of Panvita. And I appreciate it very much, Diana Jediana. Now for my discussion. Today, those who have decided at a critical moment that the burden is too great, and have begun to speculate on elections for their own benefit, not for the benefit of citizens and citizens, but for their own benefit, these people today do not open up an end to constitutionality. This is nothing new, we already know on at least one case in the past, in the case of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, where, due to its own well-being and the promotion of impatience of this law, it is not adopted and opposed. But we know this marriage isn't much, at least in money. The current government is aware of the state-of-the-art and has taken over the exercise when necessary and when there has been a great shortage in all areas. The invisible enemy didn't send an official invitation, he didn't show up at the National Assembly, but he hit hard and for the first time. Now that I have listened thoroughly to the opposition's debate, I propose to this esteemed assembly that we adopt a law where we will order the following diseases to announce themselves to send an invitation with all their characteristics, and then we will be able to adopt the law. Today we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases. It's right here in front of me. I want to tell you that we were all in the same basket, not just Slovenia, but other countries. If we look at this law, we see that, for example, in Germany, the old law was last amended on 4 April 2021, if we are talking about Ireland, Ireland has the Health Act 1947, and could also mention Estonia on 12 February 2003. I must say that there has not been one case in the European Union where as many as five stakeholders would have given this law to the Constitutional Court. I'm glad it gave him away. This law was passed in 1995 and the Constitutional Court did not find unconstitutional until one month ago. She was found a month ago. If I make it clear, it has decided that “the National Assembly must remove the finding of non-compliance within two months”. In two months. “Until then, the decisions apply” is said to apply all the decisions, “so it decided to protect the health and life of people who could be threatened by the absence of a legal basis in the future.” It is said that the Constitutional Court has given priority to life, to people, to health, and has said that these decisions will continue to apply for a period of two months until this is resolved. Time has been given by the Constitutional Court for exactly two months, not three months, not six months, not one year. We have received a lot of e-mails in the past days, where people are complaining that there is no public divisiveness and so on. I'm here to give you a message that these people should turn to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to abolish the 1995 conflict of law within two months. But if it didn't happen, I believe that we would be so fair, so kind that the next day after two months, we would have been warned that we didn't do it and that we should have done it and that the country was at the end of the collapse because we didn't do it. That is why we have before us today a law on changes and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, where we are trying to correct this unconstitutional situation. In this law, we have placed infectious disease on the list of diseases, measures which the Government may impose, are substantively more specific, restricts the arrival from countries, restricts or prohibits the movement of residents, prohibits the collection, restricts the traffic of certain types of goods and external services, conditions movement, collection, circulation of goods or the provision of services. We are in an unpredictable time that we have never experienced before. All of our actions, including economic aid, have hit fertile ground. Of course, we could do a lot better, but that's always and everywhere. The economic indicators are clear, our actions are positive, economic growth is excellent, low unemployment and the best prospects for the future. It's over. I also have before me a letter or an infectologist’s thinking: “To understand this decision”, the decision of the Constitutional Court, “we must first shed light on the fact that we live in a society that values human life as the highest value. This means that the protection of life is more important to us than, for example, the right to freedom of movement or the right to gather and unite. In this spirit, at the time of the pandemic, we subjected all aspects of public life to the protection of the health of our community. When new diseases occur, the behavior of pathogens, the disease itself, and its consequences are often a puzzle. This was also the case with covid when we learned daily about a new symptom, which was suspiciously common in covid patients. With the new disease, we connected the loss of smell and taste, memory disturbances, sleep disturbances, hair loss, clots and could even list. The outbreaks of infectious diseases are therefore unpredictable and it is therefore not possible to foresee legally any situations that may arise.” Here the author agrees with the judge, Dr. Jadek Pensa, who says such demands are unrealistic, even in our system, which is not famous for its speed. Can you imagine the chaos that would arise while waiting for urgent action to be taken? I did, and we also experienced it after the collapse of the previous government. And that's it. Dr. Verica Trstenjak thinks about respect for measures in Austria and Slovenia: "In understanding human rights, one of the fundamental problems is that more rights are being struck in practice. Therefore, where an intervention takes place in one right in order to protect another, proportionality is necessary.” Here I think that in our actions and in our fight with the pandemic we have consistently taken this proportionality into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Runk replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you. It's a replica. First of all, viruses are not invisible enemies. The viruses were before humans existed, and they will exist even when we are gone. Another time. My colleague said the virus didn't show up. That's not true. Already there after SARS-1, for a decade, and at least since 2015, people who have learned about it have been very serious about the fact that there is not so little chance that something that we are living. Third time. I have not lectured on the basis of constitutionality and rightly you have more of a colleague of Meira's teaching, who, after all, is also an expert on this. Fourth time. You know, it's not my problem, it's the problem of Social Democrats, if in New Slovenia you recognize neofascists as pearls, for what? – as Mr. Hoys would say and finish the sentence yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go, Mr. Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Madam President, I am really asking you here to warn my predecessor, who has made full use of the replica, and to remind him of a little better expression in the future, because I believe he is capable of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	As chairman, to warn someone, this is not your procedural proposal. Mr. Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, say good-bye again! In the law before us, it is again, as it has been so far, a legally inappropriate solution, to which our professional, well-managed Law-Legal Service constantly reminds us. All from the absence of the necessary democratic and useful public and professional debate to the fragmentation of regulation, duplication of content, accumulation of certain measures in several laws and the frequency of their amendment, all of this affects the deterioration of transparency and the public of legal regulation. That is why our Legislative and Legal Service, this Parliament, reiterates the principle of the rule of law, Article 2, of the Constitution, whose essential elements are the principles of the protection of trust in law and legal security – we are talking about today – which also binds the legislator, that is, all of us, and the position and opposition. The Constitutional Court has already ruled in its previous judgements that the executive branch should not initially deal with matters falling within the field of legislative regulation. It is a division of power between legislative, executive and judicial, which is more than 250 years from the Baron Montesquie, an axiom of the concept of a modern state. Whatever we look at, it is not possible for Members of Parliament to leave our powers and responsibilities to the Government. This Parliament should simply not do this. This destroys the rule of law and also democracy. But that's exactly what we're doing, and today, it looks like we're gonna do it. We adopt laws that voluntarily subject this Parliament to the Government or more correctly to one and the same authoritarian person. Therefore, the current legal regime which leaves it open to the Government to choose in its own discretion the means by which it interferes with the fundamental freedoms of citizens, no doubt in violation of the Constitution and also in the division of power, as the Constitutional Court has also found. Even in this proposal, are these things present? Can you calm down my opposition colleagues a little? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please respect the speaker and do not disturb him in his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	In the SAB Group, we have therefore tabled amendments to provide for safeguard mechanisms that prevent the arbitral decision-making of the executive branch by adopting measures that allow for interference with constitutionally guaranteed human rights and freedoms. Thus, for any measure exceeding 60 days, the National Assembly should give its consent and decide by a two-thirds majority. That's when we keep our role. Democracy does not work without the rule of law, it does not work without the rule of law, it leads to the order of society and cohabitation and peace among people. Democracy and the rule of law are the drawbacks that stop Europeans from killing each other. Only law allows for the effective functioning of political freedom and the exercise of human rights, which are a universal language against the abuse of political and any other power. At a time when the interests of the strong structures of the market economy are placed before the rights of individuals, it is essential that the democratic community and civil society take the initiative to wake up and defend themselves against the arrogant government and material forces of today. The core UN Charters, the resolution on human rights and the European Charter and the Slovenian Constitution also make it very clear that democracy is closely linked to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and therefore democratic is the system that guarantees these fundamental rights to all people and to all those who are in the minority. It is the right to think, to believe, and to express oneself differently from most. And we are a democratic republic and a rule of law, so we have written. There is no democracy without the rule of law. From Magna Carta onward, the Great Charter of Freedoms from 1215 onward are the constitutions and laws here to protect and protect the rights and freedoms and dignity of people against the will of power. Only a country with independent institutions, i.e. parliament, justice and executive power, can guarantee such democracy and limit the unanimity that has obviously prevailed in this Parliament by voting on the present. In power, whatever it is, there is always a danger that power will be misused. 200 years ago, Lord Acton said: “Every authority corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely.” Basically, relations between people are about justice and balance, and they are trying to find out more precisely what is right and right science. From ancient Rome, he continues to define himself as the art of good and righteous, ius est ars boni et aequi. Justice defines law as a fundamental legal value that divides goods and burdens, aligns between people or more precisely between legal entities. That is why the rule of law is necessary and therefore there is no democracy without the rule of law. She's not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Forte, State Secretary, has the floor as representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. We all know that Slovenia has long been a member of the World Health Organization, that Slovenia has signed this international treaty and has complied with the Constitution of the World Health Organization. The latter required Member States to adopt an international health regulation which is a legally binding international instrument setting out measures to prevent the cross-border spread of communicable diseases. The purpose of this Regulation, adopted in 2005 in our country, is to implement measures of protection, control and response in the event of disease spread across national borders that are proportionate to the risk to public health. The implementation of this Regulation fully respects the principles of dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons and takes place in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of the World Health Organization, and States have the right to regulate and enforce the rule of law in accordance with the principles of international law in accordance with their health policies, and the manner of implementation is within the competence of the Member State. The World Health Organisation shall regularly review the implementation of this Regulation by its Member States. The World Health Organization mission is among the five. 6. 2017 and 9. 6. 2017 carried out a joint external evaluation of the implementation of the International Health Regulations in Slovenia. According to a single international methodology, the mission also assessed legislative aspects and, for this area, Slovenia was assessed with a maximum rating of five, stating that national legislation contains all the necessary commitments regarding health safety systems as set out by the World Health Organisation and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'll continue right here, where the Secretary of State has finished. Everything nice and right to bind us or to implement the rules in the event of the spread of disease across borders in any way, and the International Health Regulations – what else did the Secretary of State say? - The Constitution of the World Health Organization. It is commendable that we have received, say, a rating of five in the health care system, all nice and well. But what is happening today is that, on behalf and at the expense of the epidemic, this government, the current government, is allowing excessively, disproportionately, disproportionately, disproportionately to restrict other human rights. All these acts that you listed, okay, bind us if we have implemented them, but in the first place we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates in Article 15 that human rights can be restricted only by law. We know who the legislator is in this country – the National Assembly, us Members, directly elected representatives of the people. This is recalled by the Constitutional Court in its decision when it found constitutional non-compliance with the Law on Infectious Diseases. There is no problem that some human rights are limited in one way or another at the time of the epidemic. That's not the problem. The problem is the excessive, unjustified and disproportionate restriction of these human rights because the Government wants to establish an arbitrary society, power. That's the problem. Today we do not accept the amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases in order to prevent the spread of the virus, as we were able to listen to the previous day on the Health Committee, no, today we are adopting this amendment of the law because the Constitutional Court has called us to do so, and it has ordered us to adopt such amendments to the law that will implement all the things the Constitutional Court has warned us about. And that is, above all, that the executive branch of power, namely the Government, must not have this power or must not take this right to restrict human rights in some way beyond the legal powers. Today, with this amendment of the law, you are actually legislating this, you are giving the government a blank mandate, an opportunity to arbitrally decide when to apply one of the restrictive measures, to what extent it will use it, to what extent it will use it, how long it will use it, and that is unacceptable. This view has been taken several times by the Constitutional Court in its decisions. Let me repeat, human rights can be restricted only and only by law, the legislator is the National Assembly, so we should discuss in this house when any measures that severely restrict human rights should be applied and how long they should be applied. And just so there's no mistake, I understand this moment of epidemic that requires some quick decision-making. I understand. We need to know that the government also decides at Vada meetings once a week, and if we think back, over the course of the year these measures changed on a weekly basis if they did. So what I'm trying to say is that the government can't do it right away. If we want to define now, yes, the Government is a more operational body than the National Assembly, so that it has this competence and the right to decide, because it can decide something tomorrow – no, it can't. And last but not least, the National Assembly also has a new one, which we achieved at the time of the epidemic, by amending the Rules of Procedure, the possibility of decision-making at a distance, which means that we can get together more quickly, which means that in any situation 90 of us can be gathered and decided. There's no water here. As it is said, once again, the Constitutional Court, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly defines how any human rights may be restricted. Today, no one is talking about an absolute right to freedom of movement in these situations that we are in. Nobody said anything about that today. It is true, however, that you cannot tell me that, for example, the punishment of Moroccan students who are calm in accordance with the recommendations of the epidemiological profession, in accordance with restrictive measures — distance, mask, outdoor — has been protested or warned that they want to go to schools or to faxes, any relationship with proportionality in restricting human rights, ultimately with prudence, with eligibility. But you will not convince me of this, and thank God the court has also confirmed it. Here you can see in a plastic, simple case of how a government, unfortunately at the moment, can take advantage of the epidemic to over-restrict its citizens. After all, the Constitutional Court is in this decision, and I will say very poetically, which one such little praise has dedicated to the human right to freedom of assembly. And that's very significant. A democratic society stands or falls on this right. If you can read a constitutional decision. It is important that every time human rights and freedoms are limited in any way, to freedom of movement, to freedom of association or to any other, the right to education and so on be weighed in particular, whether it is necessary to restrict or be able to achieve some of the effects that we want to achieve by other measures or means. Each time we should consider and meet the conditions, especially pre-determined conditions for a human right to be limited. But no, you to what the Constitutional Court had pointed out in its decision and somehow sent a reference – it is understood from the text of the Constitutional Decision, of course it is not an alanean one, but in the text to understand the reference of the Constitutional Court, and all that I am now saying is somehow sent to the Constitutional Court that today's novels of the Law on Infectious Diseases should be prepared in this direction to prescribe the conditions when to prescribe the criteria that must be met for some limitation of human rights. In short, the rules of the game are presuppose that citizens know that ultimately the authority is limited by this, and not least, to meet these criteria required by a certain rule of law, constitutional democracy. But you simply wrote in the marriage text something like this. I will not follow the articles because I do not have enough time, but you wrote, for example, in this most controversial article 3 which amends Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, so that the Government, after examining the opinion of the NIJZ, may assess that the measures provided for in this Act are not sufficient and that by decree it may also decide the following measures, “especially if”, “especially then”, “especially this”. In short, conceptually open as a book. You can say, yes, we are giving a legal basis to these measures, which we have decided in the last year by decrees, of course, the legal basis will now be, because you will adopt this law on infectious diseases or novelty, that is true, but this novel does not follow what the Constitutional Court has pointed out. It is that the Government does not have the right to have the right to arbitral decision on when it considers that certain restrictive measures restricting human rights are taken at all. You write it down, but the government will evaluate it after considering an opinion. Based on past experience in the past year, we have seen how much government is actually putting on the opinion of some epidemiologists. In one voice they warned that the curfew was meaningless, in one voice they warned that restricting people to the municipalities made no sense, Slovenia was too small a territory to have any effect, in one voice they warned that we should put children back in school, there are no sources of infection, in one voice they warned that cycling, if you want, in the streets does not pose any enormous or even epidemiological threat. I want to say that, yes, the opinion that the Government will get – okay, but this government has proved that the opinion of epidemiologists or experts, such and others, does not do anything because it decides, as it does that moment, that it is the best for it. Not for the people, for her. However, I hope to say this because if this government were to decide for the benefit of and for the benefit of the people, of course, it would listen to the profession, not that the distinguished Minister Hojs, the construction profession, assesses which epidemiological measures are appropriate and which ones are not. This novel doesn't put an end to it today. On the contrary, as colleague Meira Hot said today, this novel gives you the legality of these measures, which the Constitutional Court has decided were excessive, that they were unconstitutional. You are now legitimizing yourself with what Minister Hojs said: we will simply enter into the law all that we have previously entered into the decrees, and the matter is resolved. That's a nice thing to say to all citizens. I don't know who else needs to come forward in this country, to our opinion, Members, anyway, but there are respected lawyers coming forward, distinguished epidemiologists coming forward, and you're nothing. It's worrying, it's sad if you want. According to the Prime Minister, since yesterday, when he has already announced the re-closure in autumn, if we do not reach what degree of interception we fear not only for us, who warn you here by the opposition, but for the citizens. You will be free to judge what measures you will take, including by pushing into law the prohibition of movement within a certain distance from the person’s residence. Are you kidding? So where are we headed or where are you taking this country? To authoritarianism, for sure. I'm sure that's where it's gonna be. I will not comment on the others at all, because it is sad, but that you, for example, justify how the Government is now, in some ways, limited, when it has to obtain an expert evaluation, which is made up of some 15 criteria, which is discussed in paragraph 8 of this article, and I will tell you again, that these criteria will be obtained by the Government, and will then be respected or not. She's proved this several times this year, whether she's considered it or not. You are saying that the government is also mentioned in how long these measures can work — no, no, no, you are deceiving! Any measure the Government will be able to take for 15 days, and then it will be able to extend it indefinitely for 15 days without any restriction to seek any confirmation or permission, I do not know what is done by epidemiologists or by this House, the National Assembly. You say that she will have to obtain an updated professional evaluation — again, whether she takes it into account or not. Inevitably, for every 15 days, it will be able to maintain a restrictive measure, which it will assess to be okay. If that's a no-gathering, it'll be a no-gathering. If this is the punishment of the poor students who protested to go back to the learning process, it will. Today's law, if we want to maintain a number of dignity as a state, as a parliamentary democracy, surely we should not go through. Here I appeal to all others, who, not to say anything, without question, follow the government's position. I certainly am voting against it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Alenka Forte has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thanks again for saying that. If I connect to what I'm done with. In this assessment, carried out by the World Health Organisation in 2017, legislation has also been assessed, and all measures, all regulations, all that Slovenia can do in the field of prevention of infections and transmissions of infections, with a clean heel. Otherwise, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly sets out the hierarchy of what the constitutional rights of our citizens are, and first of all is the inviolability of human life. When we talk about the epidemic, we always talk about where the rights of one citizen go and where the rights of other citizens begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	I have very little time, so I will read one sentence, Madam Secretary of State. “The established anti-constitution would require annulment, a challenge to the legal regime.” This was written down by the Constitutional Court. Not because it would be okay, but because it's unconstitutional. You are saying that the right of man to the inviolability of life over all other human rights, but I have told you, human rights are equivalent, and when we restrict them, we must limit them only as much as necessary and proportionately. The punishment of the Moroccan students was not a proportionate measure, the ergo was excessive in limiting their human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. If I had been told years ago that in Slovenia alone it would be difficult to visit my children living abroad, that I would not be able to leave my congregation for a while, I would hardly believe that. But that's what happened. But it happened because she had endured one of the worst dangers, that is, the first threat after we fought our own country. If you ever told me that, you wouldn't believe it, but it did. It happened because, as my predecessor says, for my notions are wrong, the rights are the same. Are they the same species? No, I don't think they're the same species. I think that the right to life and health and security is the first right, and, of course, freedom too, but freedom will not benefit me if I die if my neighbor dies, if many people die, if I lose my health, I permanently lose my freedom because of the consequences of a disease. That's why all those of you who have ever been more seriously ill, you know exactly what we say, health is the richest. Therefore, the right to want to have a student study right in school, not at home behind the computer, cannot be compared to the right to health and life in my humble opinion. Mr Jani Möderndorfer made me happy with his exhibition he started: we are no longer in the totalitarian system. I'm glad he knew it was a totalitarian system. In fact, the totalitarian system was when we were unable to cross the border in the 1980 Yugoslavia and beyond, we were able to cross the border only once a year, and the second and third times with a large security that ordinary people could not afford. A similar example in history, our history, or our parents, has been occupied by Ljubljana. Ljubljana, which had a wire around it to build a fort and defend against the liberation movement, was done by the Italians. You see, there may be a totalitarian restriction to movement as it was in the Socialist Yugoslavia and as it was during the occupation. And it actually eats up a human being. What we had — and not even a curfew — could not be called that — was a restriction on nighttime movement. And, of course, the virus, as Mr Fafangel says, is spreading at night in the same way as in the afternoon, only that these hours are less if there is a partially limited movement. I was alone at a time when there was a limited movement, whenever I could, I went for a walk towards the evening, because time had not previously allowed me, and I always came back just before the time limit, so that I was satisfied with the law that I was in the right time at home. But I've always seen on the way to the buffet people who were gathering, who were missing out on their day-to-day social gatherings, buying alcoholic drinks, sitting in front of the cafeteria, talking and hanging out with no masks. If there had been no movement limit, this would have continued after nine o’clock, surely long into the night, for they lacked companionship and probably also lacked alcohol. Therefore, I think that the restriction of movement is not only a matter of health care, but also of course a study of social contacts. Social contacts have also been reduced as a result of this measure. What makes you think you can't get alcohol in stores and pumps after nine o'clock in the evening? Isn't that a restriction on freedom? And no one opposes it because we know what it's for. In addition, the government applied the 1995 law and no one in today’s opposition warned that the law was unconstitutional. All measures have been taken under this Act. Many laws have changed since 1995, but they have not. And all these laws have changed in the sense that rights need to be defined more precisely in laws, let this be an area of education, of social, whatever. The laws have changed in this respect. This time it was also necessary to change this law. It is not that the law is unconstitutional, but that the law has to be updated with the development of a position, a modern view that rights must be precisely defined. What is a problem with the present marriage and the future is that it is difficult to predict what kind of epidemic and what kind of disease will befall us. In fact, measures are always a response to what the epidemic is like, what it has. If we didn't know years ago how bad it would be and what characteristics it would be with us, how could we expect precise measures in the future for something that we don't know at all or which will make it necessary not to react very quickly but to carry out the legislative process? This is difficult now, with the condition we have, but with something we don't even know yet and what the profession will be thinking about. There is no definitive opinion on the current virus. You can see that there are always new variants of the virus and other measures will be needed. Some vaccines also correspond to new variants of the virus, some of them may not. The profession also needs its time for conclusions and proposals. I think that there is a very nice paragraph in this law that can prevent any fear that this would be a non-democratic measure, as I said before, whether in the second world war wire around Ljubljana, or that we could not cross borders in the socialist Yugoslavia. I don't think so. It cannot be arbitrary, as it is well written in the law, that "if there is a risk of other communicable diseases that could endanger the health of the inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, at the proposal of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, decide to apply the measures laid down by this law to them." Look, it's perfectly clear. If there is no proposal from the Institute for the Protection of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, there can also be no decision by the Government. The government will not even talk about anything unless it receives a proposal from the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, all the measures listed here will be in line with the proposal of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that there is a decisive profession here, and the Government shall immediately inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the decision, as set out in this Article. We are all therefore dependent on the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the profession. That there's such a fear here that the government will do something on its own, I don't think it's a valid fear. Even less so is the fear of some predecessors, it seems that they think they will never change again. This is a strange thought, more undemocratic, and governments change every four years or earlier. We also heard about closing schools. Once again, the Unesca website provides all the data, where you can see very well that Slovenia was somewhere on average about the physical closure of schools. This physical closure of schools replaced distance learning, was very successful, as shown by the national knowledge check and the prospects of professional graduation. So there was nothing wrong with the closure of schools, and according to this 1995 law, the Sharčev government, LMŠ, has closed schools. So I don't think there's any fear here. I also think that Drnovskov's government, which prepared this 1995 law, had absolutely no fear in mind, was simply working on what she was saying at the time. Today, however, the profession knows more, but we also know that there are even worse dangers that we could not even imagine. I think the law is appropriate. When I left Parliament for a moment, and even in the morning when I was coming, there were people out there who were worried. They think that's why there'll be less freedom. They asked me if I would vote on my conscience, and I answered them, yes, I will vote on my conscience. No policy can exceed my conscience, and at this moment I think, when I read this law, that the law is appropriate, that it is based on professional decisions and that there is no fear of having any restrictions on freedom in a way that is not democratic and that does not protect our first right, right to life and health. I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. This week, I believe that, like most other Members, I received about 100 e-mails and more e-mails about the Illness Act. Many of you have talked about vaccination, including compulsory vaccination, which this law does not speak of at all. I have read with amazement that this law is intended to bring about changes in the field of vaccination in order to change, so I am very surprised to see who in general is spreading this misinformation, scaring our citizens, who are already so afraid of the coronavirus, because of everything that has happened to them in the last year and a half. Let's do it in one order at a time. On 27 January 2020, Marjan Šarec threw his rifle into corn, and a month and a half later, on 12 March 2020, we declared an epidemic in Slovenia. Only a day later, the new government began to operate. The new government immediately assumed responsibility, took over the exercise and immediately began to deal with the epidemic. Under the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was passed, be careful, 26 years ago in 1995, this government adopted decrees to maximize the spread of the new coronary virus, which was then completely unknown. I probably don't need to explain that governments around the world have been engaged in various ways of infecting the Coronavirus, one stricter, one less stringent, and I say we haven't had the most stringent measures. In total, they were mandatory masks, distances, arm disinfection, and so on. These measures have been applied all over the world and not just to us. Virtually all democratic countries have had measures as orderly as we have or as we have had them regulated. And then, look at the fragment, straight to the end of the epidemic, 15. 6. In the third wave, the Constitutional Court finds that the Law on Infectious Diseases is inconsistent with the Constitution at two points. What's interesting is that we've been waiting for the end of the epidemic. It's kind of interesting when you think, it's kind of hard to take responsibility, I wonder, in our country. Why did they not, for example, do so earlier or substantially if they knew that marriage was incompatible with the Constitution? The Constitutional Court also ordered the National Assembly to abolish unconstitutionality within two months. That is why many of the e-mails I received and received by Members and Members of this National Assembly, where our citizens are asking, require a broad public debate – this is simply not possible because we have only two months of time available. For the first time, the second reason is that we have three, three, broad public debates and a regular procedure that would last at least three, four months. However, we do not have that much time, even though we do not fear these things and want to discuss them within the National Assembly. Now I'm going back to the very essence of changing the law. Once again, the Constitutional Court has ordered the National Assembly to remove the non-compliance within two months, it is said that the measures which the Government may take in the event of an epidemic of communicable disease are more precise. The measures that the Government may impose are substantially unchanged but more substantively concrete. Thus, the Government may restrict the arrival from countries where there is a possibility of infection with a dangerous communicable disease or, for a certain period, impose a partial or complete ban on the arrival from those countries of persons living in Slovenia who do not have a permanent or temporary residence. Restrictions or prohibitions on the movement of the population in an infected or threatened area, restrictions or prohibitions on the collection, such as teaching, cultural activities, gathering in catering and accommodation facilities, gathering in religious facilities, sports exercises, gathering at other public events and meetings. The transport of individual types of goods and the provision of services shall be restricted by the provision of hygiene and other specific protection measures in relation to the manner in which the communicable disease is transmitted. The movement, collection, circulation of goods or the provision of services shall be conditioned, in particular, by means of appropriate hygiene and other specific protection measures in relation to the transmission of communicable diseases by means of personal data to the responsible persons or by the submission of appropriate evidence. The measures shall be fixed for a maximum period of 15 days when the Government extends, amends, repeals or introduces a new measure, and obtains an additional expert evaluation before issuing the decision. The government receives an updated professional evaluation. Before issuing a decree, the Government shall obtain an expert evaluation prepared by the NEJZ and shall cover the epidemiological, medical and social aspects of the proposed measures, where appropriate, the expert evaluation shall also take into account the data of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. The Government shall inform the National Assembly and the public of the measures and expert evaluations, the professional evaluations shall also be published on the Government, NIJZ website and on the National Health Information System portal. I think I've made this quite clear right now, the essence of this amended law. But we all want to, I believe we all want to live a normal life, just like we did before the epidemic. But we never know what life will bring us, so we need to adapt and not make any drama, for the truth is many times different than it seems. I am convinced that this government is at the very least interfering with the freedom of movement and assembly and other human rights and fundamental freedoms to protect people's lives and health. But I am aware that this government has something that the opposition does not have, has never had and will never have, and this is a responsibility. Let's see what's going on. It does not go past the meeting of the National Assembly to not listen to what measures we take to make the measures too strict to close schools, to open schools, to open schools, to why it is necessary to wear masks, even some Members in this National Assembly are calling for them not to wear masks, why the inn is closed, why we do not have mass events, why we have a curfew, why we have restrictions on the congregations and so on. But in the same sleep, the same opposition MPs always throw the dead under our noses because of the covid. The well-respected opposition doesn't go together. But you know why they're so loud and why they keep telling us that? For one simple reason — because there is no responsibility in the opposition. This also shows that today, this week and next week, one of the longest meetings in this national assembly will take two weeks. Through 50 laws we're dealing with, the coalition MPs are here, we're here, and the opposition MP is nothing to me, nothing packed your suitcases and flew away to regret. For one simple reason — because there is no responsibility. This government has a responsibility and there is a fundamental difference between the opposition and the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you, Vice President. I will not touch what I have heard from the last two discussers, because it has turned my brain, totally, such lies and deception, that there is no greater. We have to be honest here. This government is adopting a law that will further restrict us during the epidemic. That's all it's gonna be, that's all. The Constitutional Court makes it clear. What did the Constitutional Court say? That marriage has a grave impact on human rights. Yes or no? Secretary of State, right? That's what he said. And what do we do? You, instead of being an unconstitutional law and all that is, instead of correcting it, these injustices, legitimize all the stupid and stupid decisions. That's what you did. Clearly, you've done it. So, the Constitutional Court tells you, correct this thing that you've done, which is wrong, which interferes with human rights. What do you do? All the decisions you've made, you put it right in the marriage, and because you have a vote, at least you hope – still, I hope there's still little sense in Desus and elsewhere that they will reject this thing, I hope they're at least smart enough to reject it, this harmful law that it is. This law does nothing else, as it foresees, gives certain unlimited powers, one unlimited powers and some stricter limits. And don't tell me what you've done, what you haven't done, why and what, and read what's in marriage and what's not. We all know what's going on. We all know what's going on. We know exactly. From a harmful, simply controversial law, this coalition with a government at the helm literally wants repression and harm to the nation, nothing else. That's all you want. I don't understand, Mrs. Forte, I've read a lot from you, you're an expert in a lot of fields, and I appreciate you very much for what you're doing. Why do you have to worship Janša so much, do these things here? This law is written on the skin of Hojs and Janša. Fearing the people, that is pure fear of the people. Can't you see what you're doing with the vaccination? You want to convince the people to get vaccinated, you're scaring them that everything will be closed in two months. My business calls me, "Are we really going to close in two months?" See what other countries have received with regard to vaccination. They talk, they say what's going on, professionally. How does Jansha get here? “If not all of you are vaccinated, 70%, close on 15 August all.” Is that the way? I'm not used to that. It's sad, it's embarrassing. Shame. This law does nothing but put us back in cages. That's all he does with us, that's all. Not to mention the absurd penalties foreseen, between 400 and 4 000 euros. Are you crazy?Oh, my God! You know what? I'd love to, yes, and I'll vote against it with certainty. With certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	I'm replicating a colleague from NSI. On Monday, I arrived at the National Assembly by Friday. I'll be in the National Assembly. I'm monitoring everything. But I remember that when Janš is in the opposition, you almost don't see him in the National Assembly. And the NSIs even intertwined Karl Erjavac after you realized that Janša had attacked you, you mostly escaped from the National Assembly. So don't start shitting me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	That wasn't a replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That doesn't mean someone misunderstood your debate. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! I'm gonna start on my own, just like some of my colleagues. Last but not least, we have been receiving tons of mail on our e-mails for two days regarding the law that is the subject of this debate. Every post office, all the way to the last, is against these changes. It is true that vaccination, as discussed by a colleague, also occurs inside, but it is still necessary to ask. When so many are opposed, in fact, every sane person should ask himself what is wrong. But don't ask yourself what's wrong with the mass of people who write this, the mass of people who protest outside, but what's wrong with the bill. But no, the coalition and the government don't really ask themselves that question, but they're sovereignly pursuing their own style of the one who's driving the highway in the opposite direction, and when he hears the notice that someone's driving the other way, he says: "So how is one? Everyone drives the other way." This is what we can actually read to this law. Ladies and gentlemen, just because of flowers like those in this novel, people are opposed. It is precisely because of such flowers that they do not trust vaccination and do not trust the measures that the Government may or willfully impose. All this, respectable, because of such things that occur in this novel affects people’s mistrust of all measures. In this way, we cannot communicate with the public, and we need to get to the bottom of the matter and say bob beans. There will be fewer trusts in the future. And then, of course, we can wonder what will happen in the fall, no matter what kind of grafting will be. Of course, such mistrust may not be what we all expect. Look at the imbalance. Look at article 37a of the Defence Act. When we decide whether an army is on the line or not, there is a need for a two-thirds majority of all of us. And if we find that this measure is not nearly as invasive as the proposed measures in this law, we can actually ask ourselves about this imbalance. The fact that we have a qualified majority when introducing an army at the border, but here the extension of some of the measures that the Government imposes on itself and then continues without the decision of the National Assembly, but only informs it, of course, is a great imbalance for me. Of course, the Government will continue to implement these measures, through Parliament. Dear colleagues from the coalition, I would really like you all to think this through the common system of common sense. I think you have it, you just have to use it and think about it. I'll get it. I am opposed to this novel because I do not understand politics as unconditional conduct, I will say, stand for some laws that are obviously harmful, but I understand it by clearly expressing my personal opinion. Finally, I am grateful that I am in such a party that tolerates and also allows thinking with its head, even though they do not always agree with me and my views. And yet every time I say publicly and without consequences, I can say what I think is out loud. In fact, I am sorry for those who understand politics as I understand it, but in some way you have to be quiet and defend your position at all costs, no matter how you think about it. And I believe that many of you are also thinking in this direction, that these measures may not be proportionate and that these measures may be harmful, not least that these measures may be unconstitutional. My colleague Meira discussed this professionally and in detail and deeply and said everything that the lawyer should know and should have been on all the time. So, Your Honor, I think it's only right that you reconsider and use a healthy farmer's mind. I'm sure you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I must say that the proposed law that we have under consideration goes in the direction of a sharp attack on fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms. Democracy is dying through this law in this national council. Let me just say in the introduction that I absolutely oppose and will not support the content of the law as it is now proposed. No wonder our e-mails burn because people turn to us, call us, write us messages, why we adopt the law by emergency procedure. We Members, at least by the opposition, have no influence on this. By the way, I know, and today, several times on the coalition side, it has been reported that the law that was attacked by the Constitutional Court was adopted during the previous governments to set a deadline of two months for the elimination of non-compliance, but forget that today we are talking about the law that you have put into the procedure. The back-up charge is irrelevant. Today we are talking about the content of a law that is extremely important because it is an intervention in fundamental human rights. People at the time of the first, second wave did not understand, and it is also unacceptable that the government made decisions on its own. Members addressed us: “What do you accept?” How many times have I told them that we have no influence over what the Government accepts? It was hard for them to explain. Today we have a law in which you enter what the Constitutional Court has said is unconstitutional. And this was announced by the Prime Minister, the retired minister, the retired minister, and I do not know what else, Minister Hojs – that all the measures they have taken on the basis of regulations and decrees will be introduced into law. And yes, that's the content of the law we have on the table today. And yes, in my opinion, otherwise it's not up to me to decide, it's a re-constitutional dispute. Why am I saying that? The Constitutional Court also stated that the legal standards must be specific and must not be such as to enable the executive branches of the authorities, i.e. the Government, to provide for the original regulation of legal matter. And here, in this bill, we have exactly that. The requirements for specificity are not highlighted when it comes to measures affecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are a key, central part of the Constitution. I hope we all know that in this national council. I also understand the Constitutional Court, which states that it is also possible to restrict constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms, but what it also states must be limited to an exceptional and clear definition – but this is not the case here in this bill. Therefore, this law does not take into account this, this law is too general, too loose, the criteria for interfering with freedom of movement and the right to assembly, the mergers are indeterminate by the executive branch of power. And if there is any way to understand that the Government is in a difficult situation for 30 days to decide, then after 30 days it can no longer do so, it must come by law and by decision to the National Assembly. That is why the amendments we tabled follow. Because we don't want the law to abuse people, to lock people in isolation, just on suspicion of infection. Suspicion of infection. If I were to compare, do we lock someone up because of the suspicion of criminal service — hello?Oh, my God! There is also a possibility of forced treatment and vaccination, and practically based on any infectious disease that it proposes – and I will also say here that I am extremely disappointed that you have not changed the terminology, because we have a National Institute for Public Health, another is used in the marriage proposal. The bill also deals with human rights restrictions that have proved irrelevant in the covida epidemic and have not been a source of infection, outdoor society, disproportionate possibility of full judgment. I just need to touch one more thing. Today, my colleague Reberšek said that we are adopting 50 laws in this plenary session, which is a marathon session, but look, he forgot to say that there was no June session. If these laws were to be divided into two sessions, believe that the meeting could be concluded within three days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing there's no interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 7 July 2021, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures to Aid Economics and Tourism in Support of the Consequences of the Epidemic of Chad-19 in the framework of an Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Dear Members, honourable President! As I have already pointed out on the Committee on the Economy, the most difficult year behind us is the year for any parliament and government in our recent history. With your support, we have been taking urgent measures throughout the year to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. We have maintained social stability and jobs with them. Economically, we're an excellent survivor of the epidemic. Slovenia will be among those countries of the European Union that will have the fastest economic recovery. Of course, in addition to the general good economic picture, there are several sectors that have been particularly affected by the epidemic, so instead of the ninth anti-Korona package, we have drawn up a special intervention law, and this law is intended primarily for tourism and related industries. The estimated value of the measures in the bill is €243.5 million, of which €22.8 million would be earmarked for the financing of the annual leave amounting to €2,000 24 per employee, and €3 million for the reimbursement of the cancellation costs, meetings and events from the beginning of August to the end of this year. During the same period, we also foreseen EUR 1 million for cash repayments of 25% of the eligible costs for the production of films or audiovisual works. To improve the economic situation of consumption in catering, tourism, sport and culture, we propose vouchers for all citizens, EUR 100 for adults and EUR 50 for minors. This measure represents another EUR 192.2 million. We have foreseen €850,000 for the exemption of water reimbursement, €3.7 million for the aid of cableway workers, €20 million for the subsidisation of reduced working time for the entire economy, and of course the proposed intervention law also covers the extension of certain measures, where there are no financial consequences. By the end of the year, they would have extended the COVID programme for the notification of State aid, the redemption of tourist vouchers also for those providers established this year. We have changed the deadline for the notification of the reimbursement of the aid for the non-covered fixed costs for which the aid is being applied. We will remove the restrictions on the operation of shops at airports by the end of 2022, extend the deadline for payment of liabilities for registered vehicles, exempt VAT for the purchase of protective equipment and extend the validity of concession contracts for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, this is related to the Mining Act. We will also extend the validity of the identity cards, which are due under the Personal Card Act. As I have initially pointed out, the general situation of our economy is very good and the prospect of rapid recovery. In the short term, companies will also be able to draw on the Recovery and Resistance Plan. These funds will provide the economy with conditions for a green and digital transition. This will make important steps towards restructuring our economy towards a higher added value. Throughout the epidemic, we conducted a dialogue with the management of all economic chambers and other stakeholders in the economy. In this dialogue we have built a strong partnership between the government and the economy. This partnership will be strengthened in the coming years, as it is clear that Slovenia is as strong as our economy is. I am asking you to support the bill because companies from these sectors are looking forward to assistance. This will help them to get on their feet after this crazy year, which is behind them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Your Honor! At its 36th emergency meeting, the Economic Committee considered the draft law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was provided with material in the form of opinions and comments by the ZPS, the Commission of the State Council and various interested public organisations. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a number of amendments to the draft law have been tabled to the various groups of Members. In his supplementary explanation, Minister Zdravko Restovalšek said that Slovenia had survived the epidemic economically well, that we were among the countries with the fastest economic recovery and that we were in the area of preventing unemployment between the best Member States. Nevertheless, some sectors and businesses have been particularly affected by the epidemic and therefore need additional assistance and encouragement from the State. He further presented the main solutions to the proposed law, the main aim of which is to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on labour relations and the labour market and to address current economic challenges, particularly in the area of hospitality, tourism, the meeting industry and culture. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service initially pointed out the fragmentation of legal regulation, duplication of content, accumulation of measures in several intervention laws and the frequency of their amendment, affecting the transparency and clarity of legal regulation. In doing so, it drew attention to the principle of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution, the essential elements of which are principles of protection of trust in law and legal certainty. It also drew attention to the constitutional aspect related to the right to a legislative referendum. Regarding the comments to each article, she explained that amendments to the coalition groups were mainly of a nomotechnical nature. The representative of the State Council presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and explained that the treatment was carried out together with the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food as an interested committee. Both committees supported the bill. In addition, he explained that the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance had taken note of the proposals of the amendments to the representative parts of the actual organisations and had prepared proposals for amendments proposed for consideration and adoption during the legislative procedure. In the debate, members and members of the committee of the coalition's parliamentary groups supported the bill's proposal. They stressed that the economic situation in the economy has deteriorated particularly in the areas of tourism, hospitality, the meeting industry and culture, and therefore the adoption of an intervention law in this area is a necessary step in the right direction. They considered that the law under consideration adequately addresses current economic and social challenges and introduces good solutions for the most vulnerable sectors and groups. They pointed out that the decline in economic activity due to the epidemic in Slovenia was lower than in other countries and that unemployment had even fallen, indicating the success of previous government measures. Some discussers from the opposition's parliamentary groups also considered the proposed solutions to the bill to be good, drawing attention to individual neglected activities and groups of the population that should be added to the aid schemes. The debate also expressed a more critical view of the opposition Members. They drew attention to a number of small businesses, independent entrepreneurs, employees, holiday workers and individuals in distress, stressing that the content of the bill does not address these problems, and at the same time pointed out the irrational spending of money from the state budget and the high financial indebtedness of Slovenia for a number of years to come. Secretary of State Simon Zajc answered all the questions raised and provided further clarifications on the dilemmas expressed in the debate. The Committee considered and voted on all the amendments tabled. In the vote, amendments from SDS, NSI and SMC members were adopted, the other amendments were not adopted or became irrelevant due to the adoption of the other amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main objective of the draft law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic is to mitigate and eliminate the consequences and impact of the infectious disease covid-19, which has a major impact on the economy, especially in hospitality and tourism. The situation in the economy has deteriorated significantly during the epidemic, particularly in service activities, where the provision of goods and services to consumers has been banned by government decrees. The tourism and hospitality sector is particularly affected. In addition, stakeholders in the field of meetings and events, sports and culture have suffered as a result of measures to combat the epidemic. In 2020, we recorded good three million tourist arrivals in Slovenia, which is 51% less than in 2019, and slightly more than 9 million tourist stays, which is a 42% drop compared to the previous year. Stronger than half of these nights were created by domestic guests, including thanks to tourist vouchers, which were one of the important measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic in one of the previous so-called anti-Korona packages. In the history of Slovenian tourism, 2020 will be one of the most difficult years marked by travel restrictions and the closure of tourist accommodation facilities. In order to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, we have already adopted eight intervention aid packages in the National Assembly, which have been designed primarily for the recovery of the economy and the suppression of unemployment. After long-standing discussions on these intervention laws, we have heard from the opposition that the measures in the anti-Korona packages are ineffective and thus will not achieve their purpose. Today, when we once again decide on one such intervention aid package that highlights the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic mainly in the area of hospitality and tourism, we must ask ourselves whether previous intervention aid packages have achieved their purpose. A clear, positive response is given by some indicators of economic growth over the last period. The decline in economic activity was significantly lower than the forecast, we have good ratings and a rise in tax revenues. In 2021 and 2022, the European Commission is forecasting for Slovenia a largely medium-sized economic growth. It follows that Slovenia is entering the first quarter of the European Union's most successful countries. However, very important information comes from the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, where good 71,000 people were reported on 18 June. This is at least after September 2019, which clearly shows that the anti-Korona measures so far were still very effective, as they prevented the expected increase in unemployment due to the epidemic. With a view to helping the economy to further develop activities and to maintain jobs, the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism includes measures that include amendments and additions to the provisions of certain laws and temporary measures in the field of the economy, particularly tourism and hospitality. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats certainly welcome the measures taken by the new intervention law to help the economy and tourism, which, among other things, provides assistance to finance the annual holiday regression, assistance to the industry of meetings and events, assistance to the film and audiovisual industries, assistance to operators of cable devices and the financial most extensive measure of this law, vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of hospitality, tourism, sport and culture. A 100-euro voucher beneficiary is a full-year resident in Slovenia and a 50-euro minor and can be reimbursed for the service in the field of catering, tourism, sport and culture carried out by a eligible provider in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will be happy to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Your Honor! We have before us a decision on the draft law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism to pardon the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, which primarily addresses difficult situations in which some parts of our economy are located. The main purpose of this law is therefore to help those parts of the economy which have been prevented by restrictions on the prevention of the spread of disease and have been most affected by it. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we welcome measures under this intervention law. These measures include, inter alia, the extension of the subsidised shorter worker, the payment of the annual leave allowance in certain activities and financial assistance to certain segments of the economy, such as the meeting industry and the film and audiovisual industry. We believe that the result of all the assistance provided by the law is fair and that the economy will expect it in a positive spirit. After good experience with tourist vouchers last season, the proposal for an intervention law, which we are considering today, also foresees the implementation of a new voucher. This will, inter alia, be used for catering services, sports activities, the reputation of museums, events, visits to amusement parks and animal and botanical gardens. We believe that such vouchers are the optimal form of assistance in a given situation. We are confident that this is because there is a good way for consumers to distribute the necessary financial resources, and it is not to be forgotten that the vouchers themselves will not yet be the only source of income in these activities, but that the stimulus will be the added consumption of guests who will often benefit from another activity or service when using the voucher. We are aware that the economy needs us more than ever before, and difficult situations require wise and prudent decisions from us. We understand the bill as one of such decisions, because we believe that it stimulates recovery in the most critical parts of the economy in a fair and appropriate way. In constructing such proposals, it is virtually impossible to fully satisfy the wishes of all market players, since it is obvious that only rare companies have managed to maintain the full condition they had before the pandemic. Nevertheless, we are proud of the proposed document in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre because we know how much effort and effort have been made by all those involved in its preparation. It seems important to us to stress that in the framework of the coordination, it was essential to strike a balance between intervention aid on the one hand and to maintain the stability of public finances on the other. In our view, it is an extremely ungrateful task, which requires great effort and considerable courage from the drafters of such a bill. In spite of the fact that, by means of the said means and within a short period of time, it is virtually impossible to fully satisfy the wishes of all the weakened players on the market, we are convinced that the proposal for a law represents an optimal compromise in the current situation. Our mission to the political partner of the economy is not yet concluded at this point. We will continue to keep a close eye on the healing of the wounds that the epidemic has inflicted on our economy, and will continue to work hard to ensure that financial resources are allocated to the right places and in a way that will be as effective as possible to relaunch the Slovenian economy. On the basis of these facts, the arguments will be unanimously supported by the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Marko Bandelli. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have the ninth in a series of intervention laws containing state aid measures. For months, we have listened to the Ministry's promises of how they will listen to all stakeholders through this intervention law and that those who have been banned will finally receive one-off financial assistance. I admit that we have also inherited the promises of the Minister of Economy from the fact that the most affected stakeholders were satisfied with the result of coordination and the announced content of the intervention law. As in Samuel Beckett's tragic comedy, the Secretary of State has repeatedly and undisturbedly anxious, desperate representatives of the forgotten branches, hoping that the intervention law with the promised measures will come the next day. But this time it turned out we were waiting for Godot. The tourism and hospitality industry was in bloody need of direct assistance in the form of covering revenue losses due to long-term closure. Such direct aid would be most economical, for instance, to the affected industries, allowing immediate liquidity for relaunching and compensating what they have lost due to closure, such as the costs of stocks of lost goods. This measure would cost the country about 150 million dollars, but instead we have a measure that will cost the country as much as 200 million euros, leaving the recipients 15% of the money at best. This is a measure of new tourist vouchers that citizens will be able to use in the new way for catering, sports and culture services. In the SAB, we regret that the government and its coalition did not hear our identical proposals last year, because we are confident that all of them would have more of the vouchers issued together. We are not opposed to the new tourist vouchers, but we note that they do not constitute an appropriate substitute for the promised one-off monetary aid. Most of the vouchers will be cashed out at the most attractive locations already occupied. As a result, the Government cannot claim that this measure will equally help everyone in the affected sectors. For example, it would be closer to extending the existing unused vouchers to services of hospitality, sport and culture. In addition to the PKP9 bonuses, a number of measures are envisaged for tourism, catering, meeting industry, sport and culture companies, partly to reimburse the costs of organising meetings and events and partly to reimburse the costs of film, audiovisual and audiovisual industries. These industries will also be reimbursed by the State for the annual leave. But watch out! Utopia would be expected to see the employees regress in their wallets during the summer months. They'll be waiting for him until November. However, non-equity industries could not carry out their activities, already having difficulty covering their basic salaries, so they should have a regression refund in their account by the end of June at the latest. And that's not because the government wasn't in a hurry. But no matter how long the government has taken, even the ninth PKP does not differ from the other predecessors. It is overwhelmed by provisions which do not have any connection with the economy due to the consequences of the coronary crisis. The legal and legal service has imposed on 25 pages articles of the Constitution, which the Government did not respect. And last but not least, the intervention law also contains part of the content of the new Water Act, which will be decided by the citizens on 11 July in the referendum and, of course, by a large majority against. In view of everything that has been said and in view of the indignation of the tourism and hospitality representatives, it is entirely appropriate to ask whether we have focused these additional 250 million budgetary resources on systemic and proportionate aid measures, whether the aid will actually be given to all those who need it. In the SAB, we believe that the Government is offering state aid which, due to the conditions, you practically cannot get. The legal conditions are unrealistic and inconsistent. Time will tell you what it is. In the SAB proposal, we will not oppose the law, because we are committed to getting employees to regress, even if it is late. But in the hope that this regression will not only be an ironic journey to the employees who will end up at the employment agency because of the new lockdown that has already been announced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar's next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The good year of the ongoing epidemic crisis is not only a crisis of political institutions, but it is also a deep economic and social crisis that reveals the weaknesses of our way of life. There is a huge amount of information on medicine and politics, about the economy and about money, about life and death. People who are built in by the media as a chip, without which they cannot survive, are confused to the extent that it is already difficult to tolerate. We don't know anything like that in recent history. The torment is so much greater because, on the basis of all the existential dilemma, literally, in the perspective of tomorrow's day of both societies and states, and most importantly, each individual. The isolations in which we were suppressed by humans are in their own special way the ideal kitchens of all possible traumas and shocks. However, in an ugly sound that seems to be making sense, we should consider the idea that we have never had so much knowledge of our ignorance. And we have never had so much ignorance when we are forced to live and work under conditions of uncertainty. Today's package of measures to help the economy and tourism to mitigate the effects of covid-19 is already the ninth in a row and is valued at EUR 243.5 million. The quantification of all the measures taken by the Slovenian State so far to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic is evident from the data of the Fiscal Council, the National Institute, which is attributed to it by a lack of any part of the National Assembly, and its writings are accepted as a biblical dogma. By the end of May this year, this has been the case. During the first five months of 2021, the total direct scope of the measures amounted to €1 billion and €382 million. The overall direct impact of cod measures since March 2020 is from the beginning of the epidemic and by the end of May this year is €3 billion and €775 million. However, the overall scope of the measures, taking into account the potential impact on government budget expenditure on liquidity credit guarantees and credit defaults, ranges from up to EUR 4 billion and EUR 477 million. By comparison, the country's total revenue for last year's budget was 9 billion and 78 million euros. A good 49% of these were earmarked by the State only to finance covido-related measures. This, of course, provokes the key issue of the public financial potential in the future of the Slovenian state. This time, the mix of measures has the highest weight, €192 million, vouchers for citizens and citizens for tourist accommodation, use in tourist agencies, in hospitality, sports and cultural events, events and so on. It will co-financed the payment of the annual leave amounting to little less than 23 million and will extend the work-time subsidy measure totalling EUR 20 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of political regulation does not determine who will respond better to the crisis. The pandemic is a dramatic crisis and states are beginning to become like each other, the main issues become efficiency, the level of trust in society, the operationality of the state apparatus. Individual democracies can, in order to deal effectively with the crisis, use policies that are hard to imagine, and this flexibility is a sign of the power of democratic regulation, not a sign of its weakness. Also, the new world after the crown, more realistically said with the crown, will reorganise its processes, interrupted by the closure of borders, quarantines or the reduction of production due to the decline in demand. It will connect what today seems incompatible, autarca and global connectivity, opening and closing, proximity and distance. Members of the Desus Group will support the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished Minister and Secretary of State! We are all aware that for more than a year the epidemic for the economy and employees has been difficult and difficult. Sectors in the field of meetings and events, sports and culture are particularly affected. The meeting industry is important for the Slovenian economy as its activities have a significant impact, a multiplier effect on the entire economy. The meeting industry is experiencing a large revenue outage because it was necessary to stop its activity at the outbreak, but it will also be the last and very gradually reinstated. Although the industry has been completely closed for more than a year, no specific additional incentives have been received. In particular, we agree with the non-aligned Members with those measures that will make a decisive contribution to the preservation of jobs and facilitate the resumption of economic activities after the epidemic. In doing so, I should point out the measure of reimbursement of full-time wages, aid to finance the annual holiday regression, assistance to the meeting industry and, last but not least, the introduction of vouchers to improve the economic situation for wider consumption in catering, tourism, sport and new culture. At the same time, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we point out that the measures promised in the new intervention law do not fully address the key economic issue, which is the financial exhaustion of certain tenderers due to the long-term closure, particularly in tourism and hospitality. During the period of the epidemic, the door was permanently closed and cancelled its activities by over 3,000 entities, of which about a thousand 300 in the area of hospitality and a thousand 700 in the field of tourism. Therefore, the signatories and I have already proposed that some additional measures be taken at the meeting of the parent committee, which are crucial to keeping businesses in good shape and thus avoiding forgiveness. That is why we have proposed extending the subsidisation of waiting for work by the end of this year, the introduction of monthly basic income by 30 September, while giving the Government the opportunity to extend this measure by a decision by the end of this year. We have proposed the introduction of a single allowance to assist the economy due to the consequences of the epidemic, which would be a compensation for the loss of traffic, the inclusion of cinematographic activities in the list of beneficiaries of aid to finance the annual leave regression for this year. We have also tabled amendments to today's consideration of the bill with the aim of providing additional assistance to the film and audiovisual industries. We would also like to draw attention to Article 9 of the Intervention Act, which derogates from the provisions of the Trade Act, in such a way as to provide that the operating time of the airports can be determined without restriction and that measure would apply until the end of the following year. In doing so, we are asked whether such a provision is even part of the draft law, which is of an intervention nature, which, in its opinion, has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, i.e. whether the shop will be closed at the Brno airport after the end of the epidemic on Sundays. This material should be fully regulated by amending the Trade Act and not the intervention anti-Korona law. That is why we have recently tabled a new Trade Act, which comprehensively addresses the problems facing trade and tourism, and today with an additional amendment to the Coalition Act, so that trade can be opened on Sundays not only in museums and TICs, tourist information centres, but also in hotels and camps. There is no rational reason for their distinction. Each epidemic has its end and each recovery has its beginning, so we call on all stakeholders to focus now on the exit strategy and the start of recovery. The savings of the population in banks are record, the companies are lowly indebted, the banks are in good condition, and the Government is expected to prepare targeted calls for the recovery of the most vulnerable activities as soon as possible. We will not object to the proposal for a law for maintaining jobs, for strengthening good economic conditions, for helping economic operators overcome liquidity problems and for making business easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Once again a nice greeting to all present, especially to the Minister! We have before us a bill on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism to pardon the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic or, however, we say so, PKP9. The problem not only in the latest anti-Korona package, but in all anti-Korona measures, is that communication between all stakeholders was extremely poor. There has been a great deal of misinformation, and social networks have helped the most, and unfortunately, the real information has been extremely little or too little. I know that it is difficult to find a way to be fair for everyone, because this is almost impossible, but it would be good to give a little more emphasis in the future to communication and cooperation. During the epidemic, huge amounts of money were shared, and it is interesting that deposits or deposits in banks increased by about a billion and a half euros. We also do not feel comfortable in the Slovenian National Party that the vouchers are dividing and will be shared in such a way. In this we are pleased that the round of tourist vouchers has expanded beyond hospitality and tourism to sport and culture. It is also not right for all, including temporary workers in Slovenia and their families and similar. Boni should be exclusively for Slovenian citizens, not to share them, and we will share them in a broad-minded way. The Slovenian national party has so far supported all eight laws of the CAP and we will also support this under number nine. In the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased that Slovenia will be among the fastest countries to recover. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Marco Pogačnik. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for intervention measures to help the economy and tourism, sort of the ninth intervention measure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. About covid-19, according to our estimates over the last year and a half, it has proved that it is not only a threat to health, but also a threat to the economy and jobs. In the proposal for intervention measures to help the economy and tourism, it is proposed to extend the deadlines for payments to free leased land, to regulate operating time at airports, to extend the period of payment for cancelled vehicles for two years, to amend the date of registration of tourist vouchers, to implement public economic services under the Water Act, to extend concession contracts for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, to exempt value added tax for security equipment, to extend the validity of personal cards, to extend subsidisation of reduced working time, to support the financing of the annual leave tax, to assist the meeting industry and events, to assist the film and audiovisual industry, to improve the economic situation of consumption in hospitality, tourism, sport and culture, to 100 euros for full-years and 50 euros for minors. This means once again, additional aid of almost EUR 240 million. The results of Slovenia show that the measures taken by the government of Janez Janša were appropriate and correct. It undoubtedly shows that Slovenia, at a given time between the Member States of the European Union, has recorded the highest growth in gross domestic product and that Slovenia among the Member States of the European Union has recorded the lowest unemployment rate. All of this shows that the eight packages prepared by the government of John Janša, which were confirmed by the National Assembly, were appropriate and correct. These measures have achieved those key objectives set by this government, namely to stop the spread of covid-19 and to protect jobs and maintain a functioning economy. The third segment, which shows that the actions of the government of Janez Janša were appropriate, is certainly an assessment of the credit rating houses. Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch have increased or maintained Slovenia's rating, which means that Slovenia remains a trusted partner. Credit ratings were attributed to stable prospects by Slovenia. Finally, there is new evidence that this government, the government of Janez Janša, is on track, on the right track, to confirm the Recovery and Resistance Plan approved by the European Commission days ago. The European Commission of Slovenia has confirmed the recovery and resilience plan among the first countries of the European Union, which will provide Slovenia with additional necessary resources to help to improve the economy and living standards of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	I'll be politely honest. I have little doubt that the law, as its title says, is intended to help the economy and tourism, to mitigate the consequences caused by the Government by the closure of activities without specific and timely assistance. You're too late, Your Honor, and this is the first eyewitness of the LMSH Group. By delaying firmly in the summer you want, and also insufficiently, to remedy what you should have done in the spring so that, in particular, tourist workers would be able to survive first and then actually start, even more shy and understandable than the years before the crown. March, I repeat, in March, the Committee on the Economy called on you to pay a single financial incentive to the activities of hospitality, tourism and the industry of meetings that were closed, attentive, with government decisions. So they're closed, not on their own terms, but on the orders of the government. In the assessment of this assessment, it's not even worth dropping, but without reservation, I can say that you've tied the industry's hands together, disabled it, driven it to the brink of collapse, and now you're offering to help it. This is unacceptable, even when more than 12,000 employees in the household have already lost their jobs, that more than 3 000 entities have collapsed, that unemployment has increased despite job conservation measures more than on average in the Member States of the Union. This latter, that there will be no stubborn denial or misappropriation, is reported to you by the Fiscal Council, among other things. Our second observation is that you have taken a carefree, even reckless approach. You promised financial aid to start a business. I suppose for a moment you may have missed the realization of what you are obliged to do as a result of the forced closure of your activities. But unfortunately, it was only about promises and awakening false hopes. Now you prefer to share new vouchers – I apologize, but this smells like pre-election bribery, even when less than half of last year's vouchers have been cashed. Why won't this one-time financial assistance to the restaurant and tourism last? Minister Restorationšek, an eternal but apparently false advocate of entrepreneurs, suddenly fell for the stability of public finances. And after that, I will deliberately repeat when the government, with its decisions, has banned industries with so many multiplier effects. Now, instead of saving her, let her live, die on meals. In fact, he does it to people, to his people. And this is the same government that is constantly full of the mouth of some hypocritical concern for job-saving. This law is just another proof that the coalition minority does not care about man. If it had been, it would not have abolished the compensation for waiting for work, but, of course, the government is suddenly concerned about the stability of public finances. But I wonder if this is just a bad joke, maybe an excuse, because suddenly the concern is expressed by the same government, which is clearly, by 5.7 billion, increased the public debt and is wriggling in debt. However, this would not be wrong if the financial scope of the measures were not about half higher than the average of the Union members and its short-term impact on the mitigation of the decline in economic growth was lower than elsewhere in Europe. This is also what the Fiscal Council tells you that there will be no stubborn denial or misdirection. Come in. The government, which is responsible for financial hooliganism, expresses its concern for public financial stability. On the one hand, it is increasing expenditure – the poorer budget appears to be newly funding everything – and on the other hand, it intends to, completely consciously, reduce income with the social cap and tax reform. Why? Because he wants to relieve the wealthier, the intentional and the conscious. The middle and lower layer will receive fines and higher expenses, real tax gifts. If I say otherwise, this government minority is leading a harmful policy. The financial debt he creates is our debt, my debt, your debt, our debt, and people will repay it. Because what's state money? Simply — most of them are taxes paid by me, you, us. The money that the government shares headlessly is our money, mine, yours and ours. Enough of this harmful policy and its unpredictability. PKP9 is only a sample example of this damage, it is also recognised as a negligible remediation. Today we should consider a law that already foresees steps, measures and forms of assistance for the fourth wave of the epidemic, which the government group says is no longer a question or, when, that is, only a date missing. I really don't understand why you're still insisting on power. I don't understand. For you, you work for yourself, not for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Meira Hot. It will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Even after a year and a half since the world became a virus pandemic, the Slovenian Government's response is the preparation of a package to help the most affected to cope with the problems faced by restrictive measures, halting public life and disrupting global flows of people, goods and services. In the ninth review, for the first time, the law did not contain any major subsets, even though this time the Government was unable to limit itself and, for example, interferes with the working time of trade, even though the new regime was recently confirmed in the Constitutional Court. However, such an intervention is significantly less controversial than previous government interventions, such as past attempts to limit human rights and to permanently disrupt systemic arrangements. Also in this repetition of the law, there is a renewed division into classified and unlisted groups, on those affected groups that the Government has decided to help with its actions, and on those that are not included for various reasons in government assistance plans. This time, the government has limited itself to helping the economy and tourism, and it is clear from the law that some affected groups, the non-profit sector and non-governmental organisations will again fall off the list of listed groups. There will be a government direction in the eyes to establish different entry and elimination criteria for each aid measure. Thus, certain forms of aid are general to any economic operator that assesses the need for them, such as the short-term subsidisation measure, again other measures contain strict exclusion criteria for the aid applicant’s registered activities, such as the employee compensation measure. Inconsistentities do not end here, as the Government has sometimes requested as an entry condition that the applicant has a registered principal activity, once again one of the activities is registered with others, while the agricultural economies are allowed to use the measures even if they only have a registered complementary activity. It is also not possible to get rid of this marriage package of the feeling that the Government is taking aid measures in order to be able to boast about them, but not to help maintain the economic activity of businesses and people's employment. The worrying behaviour of the rulings, which, in return for inclusion in the aid measures, is still repeated, is that they expect public gratitude and demeaning uncriminality. However, any critical public intervention is the reason why an individual or a group seeks to waive the right to aid from public funds. This issue is also accompanied by a government decision to include in the marriage package a measure of temporary waiting for work and subsidisation of part-time work for employees and, on the other hand, a full exclusion of the possibility of monthly basic income for self-employed persons and also the imposition of a compensation for those activities directly suspended by government decisions to limit the spread of infections. All those who have been prohibited from doing their work must thus be placed in the same line with those who have only been engulfed by the epidemic or who have caused them business problems only indirectly. However, they still do not want to hear arguments that the State is also liable for damages due to restrictions imposed in the interest of public health protection on private individuals. The measures proposed by the rulings now will, therefore, be able to benefit more from systems that are fully involved in tourism activities, and much less from the measures taken will benefit the small economy, the self-employed and the entities that carry out the various activities. After a year and a half, it is no longer surprising that the rulings are trying to limit aid to the non-profit and cultural sectors. The amendments by which the opposition parties proposed that cultural creators and societies should also be able to assist in co-financing the regression or the possibility of paying their services on the newly introduced vouchers were rejected on the Committee. Thus, the ninth government attempt of the anti-Korona package can be marked with an assessment sufficient but not good enough. In order to effectively assist those affected, it would also be necessary to include the cultural and non-governmental sectors in the aid measures, to provide basic income for self-employed persons and to ensure fair compensation for the damage caused for all those whom the Government has banned or substantially restricted by decrees. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we predict that we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Madam President, for your word! If we wanted to look for a cross-sectional array of all anti-Korona packages and measures that the Government sent to help people, the economy and public health, it would probably show five points. For the first time – too late, the second time – ineffective, the third time – past the public, general and interested, the fourth time – with new vines and fifth time – to help capital, not people. The ninth anti-Korona package is a school example of this government practice. The measures are coming too late, which was highlighted in particular by the representatives of the performance activity. Although the present proposal offers them some compensation for the loss of planning events due to the epidemic, this aid comes a year and a half too late. The performance sector, which is closely linked to tourism in Slovenia, was impressed with the first, had no opportunity to get back on its feet throughout the epidemic, and would probably be the last to come to life among all sectors. It should also be noted that at the time of the epidemic, the organizers have been persistently asking the Government for help, negotiating a more robust solution, now and at the decision-making stage, the Government has placed a diluted version of the agreement on the table overnight. And representatives of the organizers from the rain under the rain. Perhaps the most visible purpose of the ninth PKP, its parade horse should be a renewed and even more fruitful solution to Slovenian tourism with extended use of vouchers, as well as cultural and sports activities. But the subtitle of the law goes like this: instead of saving the shareholders who really create tourism and other industries, so workers, the government again offers the hands of employers and capital. A Trojan horse, then. And the CAP would not be the CAP if the government of Janez Janša did not find an opportunity to translate content that is neither urgent nor interventional nor has nothing to do with the resolution of the epidemic, but is a convenient political bypass for the private interests of friends. And it wouldn't be what it is if you didn't question our democratic arrangements. Water law, just in a referendum. Public opposition to the law is extraordinary. The government is aware of this, and the current CAP has also introduced two regulations that change the way public economic services from the Water Fund are financed because the budget can run out, but not in the Water Fund. Over the next six years, we will spend 780 million on weapons, and we will run out of money to protect against threats that are not actually there to protect against purely real flood threats. In order to really help people, we have already proposed two complementary measures to help people at the committee hearing in Levica. First. The country provides financial assistance to various companies, but without ensuring that they retain their workers. Aid to the economy must be transformed into social and financial security for those who create it, namely workers and workers. Therefore, State financial assistance must ensure that their jobs exist in the first phase. Many companies that have received millions of state aids shut down establishments in Slovenia, forgive hundreds of workers and leave behind social devastation. The government has so far distributed state aid to companies without adequate protection against dismissal, resulting in a four-digit number of people on the road and owners abroad and in a safe environment. With the amendment, we wanted to prevent the immediate cancellation of contracts for the employment of more workers, i.e. to maintain jobs. We also proposed a change in the purpose of the vouchers. Due to the limited utility value of the vouchers, individuals or households with the lowest income will be harmed, much more than tourist vouchers and cultural or sporting events need funds for bare survival, rent, school supplies, affordable food from shops, clothing or other essential necessities of life. Today, 254,000 people live below the poverty threshold in the Republic of Slovenia. Surely the fact is that these individuals and families will not have the opportunity to use the vouchers. That is why we have proposed their direct conversion into financial resources. The majority of Members and Members of the Committee on the Conservation of Jobs and the solution to poverty eradication did not support it. The law therefore does not follow its basic purpose of mitigating economic and social pressures, preserving jobs and social security of people, and we will not support it, either, MEPs and members of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting forward Article 9 and the amendment of SD and Levica's parliamentary groups, the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC, and the amendment of the non-related Group of Members to the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Put your hands where I can see you. I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We've got five reported debaters, the first gets the word mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello! I will briefly explain why we decided to table an amendment to the amendment. In fact, we fully welcome the idea that trade in museums and tourist information centres is open on Sundays. It is clear that this is necessary, but there is the same need for shops in hotels and camps. This is the content of our appendix to this amendment – to join these two categories. If you analyze the need for a store at the museum, it is clear that curators or curators will not sell something at the store, that they will hire a seller or a seller for it anyway, and in the hotel it is equally expected that people need something, and even more so in camps where we know that improvised life, that logistics really needs trade, and it is completely pointless that we see tourists, campgoers, that at empty shops they lathe about how they need it or whatever. We really don't see any logic here. Remember that in previous attempts to amend the Trade Act we have also tried to explain that we have received letters from camp owners and camp managers that this is indeed a necessity. There was no listening, but this time I believe that there will be a little more logic in listening, because we are practically merely complementing and relying on what the coalition proposes. Now it's because of those who think that absolutely no one can work on Sundays. I would say that one less merchant who doesn't go to church this morning means nothing more than doing a lot of good for everyone else. I think she will also be happy with the extra payment she receives for her Sunday job. The same applies to camps. Now, because I am speaking, I would like to say that we have also tabled amendments concerning the assistance of the audiovisual and film industries, and we also expect that there is indeed support and that there is no reason for us to remain disadvantaged and in some way discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the following word, Mr Edvard Paulič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for an Act on intervention measures to assist the economy and tourism in the mitigation of the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic, the ninth in line to remedy the economic consequences, tourism and, of course, those activities that have been released so far or which have been under-aided [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	Just a minute. Mr. Lenart, please shut down so there's no time. Mr. Pogačnik, I can hear you, yes, shouting across the hall to discuss the amendment to Article 9. However, this is the first article in the consideration of this law. We are discussing an intervention law that touches on a number of different sectoral laws, and at this point I will allow it to be discussed a little wider, because we are still regulating a topic that concerns a very broad area. So I propose that we let the debaters discuss it as they thought. Thank you so much for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you again very much for your word. The bill is on the table together with measures. If we look at it like that, what are we waiting for? We simply support the economy and tourism, they will get the difficult help they expect. Most of the time, we have taken care of the waiting workers in the activities we have closed with the measures, and the regress will also be received. We have earmarked debt resources for income losses to cover fixed costs; we have dedicated to tourism vouchers that are being used too slowly, but this is a good move for tourism and catering activities that are most exposed, and we have warned about this several times in previous PKPs. Many groups received help, including those who lost nothing during the epidemic. The forecasts aren't bad. They're better than we planned. This was highlighted by the Government, and several times by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. Unemployment is falling to pre-epidemic levels. While there is a significantly higher debt, this is still passed on to future generations. So, let's back up and go on a well-deserved vacation, I'd say so quickly, on the first ball. Respected colleagues and colleagues, many legislative measures in the past have been taken in this way, with short-term measures, without dynamic impacts that suggest a great deal of risk. I am not just talking about the Slovenian economy and Slovenian politics, I am talking about a global, macroeconomic policy that will have consequences in the future. So I ask, Mr Secretary of State – now there is no minister here – whether we are ready to face future challenges that follow from whether we are really just looking at a short-term law as such, raise our hands and go. We have included in the performance indicators all debt aid, which is not based on real GDP growth. That's what I'm hoping to say. That's what the profession's calling it. These GDP growth calculations are made for these more normal situations, and in times like these, an epidemic where we know that debt money is taking action and saving, and I am afraid that this issue will escalate to the future. Slovenian tourism and hospitality have experienced an epidemic in very good growth and development, but also in over-average indebtedness to the entire economy and also to competition from abroad. This is a very important conclusion. Epidemic forces activity into additional debt. We have also witnessed this in dealing with past measures and warnings from managers or owners who run tourism and hospitality activities. The activity of tourism without the planned revenues cannot really repay financial obligations. This is what we have repeatedly warned about, and in none of the laws we have been able to help in this area. They're extremely short-staffed. That's what I think the main reasons they're pointing out are, and it's hard to help them. Let's look a little wider. Although tourism and catering were largely closed, the results are better than expected. This represents the situation of the Government as well as the Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism. We want to boast about this and, of course, we should be happy, the results, the indicators show this. So what caused such a favourable situation, which also provided employment almost at the pre-epidemic level? There is also an opportunity for certain activities in each crisis. The trade has been replaced by, say, internet sales, pharmaceuticals, or even more, since the additional start-up was just protection products, for medical equipment. There was also something else that we could list. What about the problems? However, I see a particular problem in rising prices, especially raw materials, and unfortunately also the rising prices of wood raw materials, which we have seen in the past, we have seen quite a bit at our meetings recently. Maybe we're not aware of that enough. This is, of course, a global problem, including a corporate strategy that will cause – what? Stagflation and inflation. This has already been pointed out by media experts and I ask the government whether you are aware of what is coming after it. This is said to have an impact on certain future impacts of the development of our economy, where policy should really follow this closely with fiscal policy. We know how this case is now disbanded so we can do a lot of things. Here there will be a great deal of dissatisfaction with the further growth of our economy and probably also the hot topics in this national assembly and future governments that will have to solve all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič has the following word, and Mrs Andreja Zabret is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the beginning of my debate, I will refer to yesterday's opening speech by the President of the Government in this Chamber, when he praised the functioning of our health system, he also made some comparisons, I think he mentioned, for example, the Netherlands, where they were forced to drive their patients abroad for treatment. I am absolutely joining this thanks myself, thanking all health workers and all other social sub-systems, as well as citizens and citizens. But let's ask ourselves what would happen to our health system if not a large part of the economy, the part that was closed by government decisions, were involved in limiting the spread of the virus. I think the answer is clear. If this part of the economy has been closed down, if they have been in solidarity with that other part of the economy that was able to operate, the other part has also received the same measures and aid if they have been in solidarity with the health system, it is only fair that this solidarity is returned to them. We in the LMŠ have been warning of the need to separate measures for those companies that have been closed by the Government with decrees and those that can operate. At the initiative of the LMŠ, the Committee on the Economy was convened in April – I think it went to the title in terms of the problem of catering and tourism and other services. We have proposed several conclusions with the rest of the opposition, and one decision has been adopted. The decision to send the Government to take immediate action to restart this segment of the economy. It took almost three months, and the measures were coordinated. As far as I am aware, the measures were also in line with all stakeholders, companies welcomed these measures and expected them and were subsequently withdrawn. In the draft law, you state that this law regulates the content associated with the communicable disease SARS-COV-2. Of course, it doesn't quite hold. Again, in this law or in the novel, there are subsets, so to speak, articles that have no connection to the epidemic. At least I personally counted those articles. I don't know what the Law on Automobile Charges has to do with eliminating the consequences of the epidemic, or the amendment of the Water Act if we consider that this law is the subject of a referendum initiative. Not to mention all the reasoned comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the parental committee, since it listed no number of articles with which this law is contrary, I am referring to the articles of the Constitution, it has also listed several other home laws with which this law is inconsistent. It is true that the coalition has also tabled several amendments for today's session, but these are amendments of a nomotechnic nature and in no way remove these substantive comments, which we as well as the Legislative and Legal Service point out. Half a year ago, Minister Restoršek said, quote: “We simply have to admit that we are at a strategic level in a blind alley. The epidemic has now developed mainly into a psychological crisis of trust." The situation today is still exactly the same. You cannot gain people's confidence if you take anti-constitutional decisions if you constantly break into intervention legislation articles of a plant that has nothing to do with eliminating the consequences of the epidemic, while at the same time forbid a referendum if you change legislation and add harmful articles after a public debate has already been carried out, as was the case with the Water Act, when you delete good solutions that have been aligned with all stakeholders and have also been confirmed. I'm talking about today's law. Let me remind you that you have subsequently deleted assistance from the law in the form of a one-off allowance, aid in the form of monthly basic income and an extension of the waiting period. These are measures which are essential and which companies have been hard to expect. I will therefore read a statement by the representative of the Slovenian Hoteliers Association after you withdrew these proposals from the law. I quote: “We are shocked and deeply disappointed. In particular, because the content of the law has already been agreed upon and harmonised at all levels. Under it was signed by economic minister Zdravko Restovalšek, in line with the Ministry of Finance. The bill, which has also undergone inter-resort and coalition coordination, has been on fire for two months and has removed from it the key measures to help the most affected in tourism. This law was born." The Minister's arguments regarding the withdrawal of these proposals were in style: the government must take care of the stability of public finances. The fact is that the Government has significantly increased its debt in this mandate. The debt per citizen amounts to almost EUR 20 000, a debt per working citizen over EUR 40 000. And yes, the public financial situation is important. This is why I will read another statement: "The scope of discretion in Slovenia was about half the size of the EU average. The estimates show that their short-term impact on the mitigation of economic activity was lower than on average in the EU." Which means that, on average, we spent half the money on about the same effect. At that time, it was an opportunity for the stability of public finances, as was the occasion when you passed the Investments in the Slovenian Army Act, when you spent 800 million euros, almost 800 million euros for the purchase of equipment. I agree, one part of this equipment is absolutely necessary to buy, but I don't believe everything. Or when you taxed the richest ones, you could even list them. I will now refer to Article 27 of the Law, which deals with aid for the financing of the annual leave regression. My first point is that there is no key component to every bill proposal, and this is a qualitative explanation. I must say that there are certain paragraphs in this article which do not have any explanation at all, and therefore there will be a double explanation if, when the law is adopted, I will tell you why. On the parental committee, I have already pointed out the first sentence of paragraph 6 of this Article, which reads as follows: "Assistance for the financing of the regression referred to in this Article, the beneficiary must make provision for the payment of the regression for employees, as is the case with the ZDR-1." So, to pay off the regression, that's a key word relationship. In view of the fact that employers have already paid the ZDR-1 regress in accordance with this, this aid will in fact be earmarked for the refund, not for the payment of the regression of workers. Maybe someone will say it's legal formalism, but why am I reminding you this the second time? Only so that there will be no misunderstandings, such as when operating guest restaurants, when the guests found that guests can serve when it comes to business-to-business associations. This happened only after the Minister's visit to Prleka. So they're going to get help from companies that have regressed up to 1. 7. or those who are in liquidity difficulties and also in law allow them to postpone payment of this regression. We're six today. 7th and I mentioned earlier that this law is late. Why? If we had a marriage on the table a month before or even half a month earlier, we would have those companies up to 1. The 7th Regression has not yet been paid, it has only been paid because it would have been justified to receive this aid, and it would have either worked hard or hired a loan because it would have been guaranteed to receive this regression payment. Therefore, the Secretary of State, I propose again today that it be correct, that this aid be granted to companies which will pay the regression to enforce the law, that is to say, those who are late, because otherwise, if they are not up to 1. 7. it's very likely they won't be later. Finally, I should like to reiterate that in the LMŠ, we have already proposed, together with the opposition, that these measures, which have been agreed, be reintroduced and later withdrawn into the law. I am talking about the one-off financial assistance to hospitality and tourism, I am talking about the monthly base income and the extension of the waiting-for-work measure. Given that all our amendments have actually been rejected on the parental committee, today's novels in this form, as it is, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Zajc, Secretary of State, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day to you, on my behalf! It would come from the last debate and then against the other comments. Once again, thank you to the Member for the constructive debate on the committee itself, where you have drawn attention to this vision of this article. After that, as I promised, only the text of the article was re-examined by Furs, who will be the performer, as well as your legal and legal service and both are of the opinion that, as is now being formulated, the article is appropriate and that there will be no such confusion, so also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is the same opinion. That's why we haven't changed and prepared an amendment on this subject. But thanks for that warning, we checked further. With regard to the measures we have been preparing together with the economy. This law really came about in our ministry under my tactics. The team and I have sat together very often with representatives of tourism and the rest of the economy. Given that our ministry is the voice of the economy in the government, of course, the proposals they proposed have been taken into account, drafted into articles and put into law. However, every time, at all the meetings that were really many, I have repeatedly repeated and warned that this will be our proposal, which, of course, still needs to be inter-resorted and also framed into the budget's capacity. On that statement you have read, I think it is somewhat unfortunate that you yourself know the legislative procedure and know that until you here confirm the law, the law is not over. It must first be confirmed by the Government, and that step before it is the coordination or drafting of the legislative text that has taken place. However, as I said at those meetings at the time and also at the committee and here today, we all knew that not all measures would come forward, which is clear, because those measures were more than €240 million strong, and we know that when you adopt laws with financial implications, this financial part should also be taken care of. Most of the sadness has resulted in the absence of a single aid measure in this law. We, too, at our ministry, still feel that this measure is necessary, so we will prepare it. We will prepare it from cohesion funds, as we have already done. In order to mitigate previous waves, we have prepared measures from cohesion funds to a lesser value per legal person. This was an invitation, two calls went out at a total value of 40 million, and this current one will be similar, but it will go through the invitation because the higher funds will be for the most affected companies or for the most affected industries, namely urban hotels, reception agencies, the agencies that drive tourists to Slovenia and the meeting industry. So this measure is going to be in there. Otherwise, the whole spirit of the law is that we want the economy to work. Representatives of tourism, hospitality and the rest of the economy have also highlighted this several times – give us the opportunity to work, we don't need, we don't want help, we want to work. And that is also the spirit of this law. You will also remember that in Slovenia we made a decision at the beginning – this was a difficult decision then – that the industry itself will not close the production. Some countries have done so, we have decided not to do so, and this decision has proved to be correct, i.e. there have been no major outbreaks in any production at the time, but the industry has been able to continue. However, if we are all honest, we have opened up faster than the others, given the state of the epidemic we had in Slovenia. The countries around us had a much better picture, even today the other countries have a better picture of newly infected people, say 100,000 than Slovenia, but we have decided to go as soon as possible in a safe way at least partially relax. You will remember that we were first releasing 50% of the hotel's capacity, then 75, now they are fully open because we wanted this industry to work. From the point of view of your parliamentary group, it was as if we had taken decisions out of boredom that we wanted to harm anyone on purpose. Of course that's not true. I hope that all of us are aware that we can recognize that anyone in power — even if you look at the other countries — has taken similar measures — measures have been taken to prevent the spread of the virus, nothing else. None of us wanted to hurt anyone. In sectors such as tourism, hospitality, there is a great opportunity for this virus to spread, so these decisions have been adopted. But once again, we wanted them to start working as soon as possible, and that's why we relatively sooner than the rest of us opened up activities in a safe way. And then it turned out that the numbers were still falling. Yet, of course, hospitality, the industry of meetings, tourism in general are those who have been more affected. That is why this special law is for them, because we want businesses to be maintained, in addition to retaining jobs. It has been mentioned that a certain number of unemployed from this sector has still been created, but also here you have to be honest again, every year it is that, every year, companies close in tourism and hospitality because it is such a industry, and then they reopen. There were several of them, of course, due to an epidemic, which is normal. If one industry experiences such a global shock when we do not have the arrival of foreign tourists, but at the same time we know that we are more than 70% dependent on the arrival of foreign tourists, some of the consequences will be, but with these measures that we have taken so far, also with the hope that you will confirm it today or tomorrow at the vote, we will help mitigate these consequences and help companies to move forward. The question was, are we thinking about how we're going to bring the industry back to life? The laws that have been adopted so far and this intervention law to help the economy and tourism are to mitigate the consequences that we are doing for the future, including at EU level, but the Next Generation of the EU and REACT-EU, the Recovery and Resistance Plan and the new multiannual financial perspective, where we will do just that. Where we're going to do this for a long time, after a really long time, we're going to invest again, even if I say so, into concrete, so these investments will be possible. We will invest in companies digitising, and we will also re-finance tourism infrastructure. That's the part where we look forward. By these measures, these calls will start at the end of this year and beyond, and we want to empower both the restaurant and tourism as well as the rest of the economy – because we have problems that we know for ourselves, in a number of areas, especially with regard to value added – in order to return or to come back to where we want to be. We have this problem, now that we have been doing an analysis of the past tourism strategy, where, while this strategy has been normal for three years, but not for two years, we have found that although the tourist arrival in Slovenia has increased, our consumption has not increased. We have the problem that we have increased our room delivery, but we have not increased our added value in catering, and we have not increased our quality of services. And that is now what we must address in the future strategy, how we will do it. The problem that already existed before the co-vid and which still exists and will also have to be addressed in the strategy is the frame. This is not only a problem with Slovenia, but the fact that tourism is a problem everywhere is because it is a specific industry. If we do not invest strategically in the long term, we will continue to have problems as well as others, and this is one of these parts that will need to be addressed. That's as far as the question goes. Why did we give only certain SKDs and give something for the whole economy? We have coordinated and developed the measures together with the economy. These SKDs, which are listed in individual measures, are the result of coordination precisely with representatives of tourism, hospitality and then with culture and the Ministry of Sport. So this is the result of this coordination. I think we have well covered those who have really been harmed by the decisions that have been taken, not because someone would want to harm these companies, but because we wanted to preserve and protect public health. But the consequence of this was, of course, that certain activities were very limited in their operation, which means that income was also lower, so these activities are specifically addressed in this law and I think it is right to help them. When we complete the single aid measure, I think we can say and that the representatives of the economy will tell you that the measures are correct, appropriate and that they have solved what we want most, and this is that our companies do not shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would only suggest procedurally that the Secretary of State also make a proposal to the amendment on the additional opening of trade in hotels and camps, because the opinion of the Government is important in the decision of the others, both the coalition and the opposition, in the vote. And I'd like to ask you to comment on this before we proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u242	Mag. Rajić, I believe the Secretary of State has heard you. Just a reminder, this is not a procedural proposal. This request or request may be made in the debate and the Secretary of State shall assess what he or she will answer and what he does not do. But I can see he just signed up for the word. Mr. Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you. I'm sorry, I missed that question. I can't give the government's opinion in this case because the government didn't make that decision. I can give the opinion of the ministry, which we have been defending all the time, that is that operating time is not supposed to regulate working time anyway. It is important for us to allow tourism. From the point of view of our ministry, of course, it would make sense to open up trade in camps as well, but this, once again, is not the position of the Government, this is the position of the Ministry, how Members will decide, but of course it is your right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor, Mr Primož Siter is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As with all eight PKPs, even today's PKP9 we can see the promoters, such as the Water Act, the Trade Act, the DMV, who don't know what to look for in this PKP. In addition, not all groups are re-engaged, so that we meet again with a law that is not entirely appropriate. The great gratitude of Minister Restoration at the Committee on the Economy, how well we have survived the epidemic, how we have the fastest recovery and the lowest unemployment, is somewhat significant. I really don't know where the minister has all this information. To see how we get out of the crisis, we'll see a little later. Above all, it is currently important that we adopt laws in a timely and effective manner that will solve the crisis of cots and economies, how we will implement the projects of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which we all know is very important and one of the major conditions for economic growth in Slovenia and, above all, the very high forecast growth in Slovenia. Whether we will be in charge of investments that will bring added value in the future, or for pre-election candy, this is also a very important thing that will affect our economic situation. To date, we do not have this government's exit strategy, how, after the crisis, we know that it is not yet over. On the other hand, as we heard yesterday, Prime Minister Janez Janša has already announced in September a re-lockdown. And by the way, he said that if we don't get a 70-percent interception, we're gonna have another lockdown. But I hope we get a 70% cut. Despite the fact that we now have enough vaccines to have a choice, it seems that people do not make decisions about vaccination, so I'm a little worried about whether we're going to get to that percentage. If I tell you some more facts about the good economic situation, I must say that public debt due to the epidemic and the use of budgetary money to mitigate its consequences at this time has reached a record. According to the latest figures, it is already €40.15 billion, which is 6.8 billion more than at the end of 2019, when we left a budget surplus of €225 million. It is true that during this period covid crisis and virus occurred, but the fiscal world has been constantly pointing out that expenditure that is not directly related to the crisis is growing disproportionately, and in fact it is also a violation of fiscal rules. To make it easier – although we have already heard this today, but I think people understand it so easily – today’s public debt on every citizen is already more than 20,000 euros, but if we take on an active citizen, it’s already over 42 thousand 400 euros. It's a debt that we're all going to pay back here, all our friends, families, children and so on. So we're talking about big numbers waiting for us in the future. We also need to know that Slovenia ranked 40th among 64 countries on the competitiveness scale of the Swiss Institute of IMD, which is as low as five cities last year when we were in 35th place. This also points to the fact that everything is not as it wants to be shown. The intervention law under consideration is called PKP9, which has been prepared and coordinated for several months. As early as January, the Minister of Economy had announced the CAP9, and today we are in July. And as we have heard many times today, the fact that we accept all laws is too late. In addition, this version, which we have received in the National Assembly, no longer contains those measures which have been so difficult to expect, such as a one-off tourism and catering allowance and waiting for work and a basic allowance, which were in fact in line with all stakeholders, if we understand correctly. We can all see from the practice that the aid to the economy is unstructured, too slow and the beneficiaries are more or less often reaching too late. The measures are also complex and often unfair. It is also a non-selective approach to the adoption of legislation, particularly in the field of tourism and the meeting industry. In fact, we are facing companies facing a fall in income and companies that were not allowed to carry out their activities due to government decisions. It is said that one has a falling income due to a reduced volume of business and the other companies which were practically unable to operate due to closure due to a government decision. We should therefore long ago adopt laws to separate these companies and thus make it easier for them to operate. We have already proposed this in the LMŠ for all previous CAPs. We have provided a solution as a report on the loss of revenues of 80% of sales revenue in 2019, according to all those entrepreneurs who were unable to operate due to government decisions. Unfortunately, however, all the amendments were always ignored and not accepted. The most pressing problem that we are talking about today is that businesses in catering, tourism, the meeting industry and some service services, whose revenues have been closed for months because of the government's decision, have fallen to zero. The measures we are taking today are inadequate for these activities and cause major liquidity problems, mainly due to the closure of activities. Smaller entrepreneurs have run out of all necessary financial resources, no means to restart, and in the end, they have no hope of getting rid of the hopeless situation, as the promised means to save the sector are not currently in the bill. They were counted, I'm talking about a one-time allowance for help, waiting for work and basic income. We have also tabled amendments to these measures in the LMŠ together with the opposition to the Home Economics Committee, but unfortunately these amendments have not been adopted either. Also in the section for hospitality and tourism at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where we know they know the situation well, they have already announced a new wave of layoffs and closures of guest restaurants, as they estimate that the situation in the catering industry is not being properly resolved. The fact that PKP9 has withdrawn the last moment of payment of a one-time waiting allowance and a basic income, which is expected to be practically aligned with all stakeholders, is indeed bad for the economy and for businesses, which the Minister of Economy says are the pillars of the economy. The statement by the Secretary of State, you, Mr Zajc, that, due to the lack of budgetary resources from the intervention law, a one-off allowance has been withdrawn, is nicely unserious or for hair. Even more so, Minister Restovalsk's statement, when he said that these sectors had been sufficiently given through the measures and that there was a need to ensure the stability of public finances. Well, here's where you really have to ask yourself if the minister believes it. In fact, the same minister in the government of Janez Janša in the wake of the crisis and the great public debt of reducing taxes. You will tax pay and income on capital and thereby create an additional hole in the budget so that we do not talk about all the other laws that have been passed and will. This is an investment in the military, the introduction of a social cap, a demographic fund, all of which will further cause at least a billion less in the budget. In addition to reminding doctors who did not work, they were given all the supplements to purchase protective equipment, especially napkin masks, which are probably still in storage, the purchase of vaccines, tests and could also list. In doing so, the Minister is concerned about the stability of public finances. Let me get this straight. This government, in no way can we avoid this feeling, behaves as if the state budget is a self-service trade and pre-election candy pays with a credit card for citizens and citizens. To conclude, this is nothing more than financial hooliganism and a pre-election economy for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Mr. Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Perhaps the impression is that the only help that goes to tourism and hospitality is this law. That's not true. In addition to the eight PKPs, under which, under these laws, the state has already paid around €700 million, our ministry, outside these legislative measures, has allocated 234 million to this sector and, in addition, this law, we are talking about nearly a billion euros already in this context. This isn't the only law that's going to help this industry. As I said at the outset, I know it is difficult to accept that at this moment this one-off supplement will not yet be for tourism, but, as I said, we will reshape cohesion funds to help these most affected companies. With regard to monthly base income, which you mention is a shame that it's not in there. At this point, we've released all activities. I hope that it will be just as you hope that in the fall we will not close so that everyone can continue to work. But at this point this measure did not come into law because it is possible to work, even in the meeting industry. Therefore, there is a guarantee for them that if the event is not able to perform, we will cover the costs. Just to get everybody to work. If anything changes then — of course, no one can say it now with certainty, but at this point — it will be up to us to make a decision. And you will know for yourself that every finance minister has to worry about spending the budget, even as it was before, I have experience with it and it is a difficult task. You have to frame yourself somewhere, and then you talk and negotiate what's gonna happen and what's not gonna happen. The fact that there have been several measures on the ground in our proposal is, of course, clear because we are the ones who advocate and convey the voice of the economy that we represent in the government. But I think it's clear to everyone here that there's never in any government anything that the ground wants, because it can't be because you're limited to something. However, I think that now this final form of law, which is before you, is good and that it will achieve most of those problems that we have not addressed so far, and a one-time supplement will come.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! In this first debate, I will also discuss, as well as the well-respected Vice-President, more broadly as usual in the National Assembly, and in the final stage, this anti-Korona package covers a very wide range of issues, from the ID card to the Water Act and so on, and requires a broader debate or, in my case, wider criticism. Already in the opening position of the Group of Members, I was critical of the work when I drew some common nouns from all the anti-Korona packages we have witnessed so far. One of them, who is perhaps the most visible or most present indeed in all, is simply the inefficiency of the measures. Just the fact that we are sitting here today in front of the ninth anti-korona package, that there were eight of them before it, that it took nine of them together to establish at least one of the roughly functional conditions in society, is in itself coherent. I am thinking about what is the essence of this inefficiency, what is the reason or what that gabarite is, what is the most basic substance of this inefficiency, why these measures are ineffective, what is the core of this inefficiency. It is a simple fact that measures, aid and so on do not reach people. It's stuck somewhere. A colleague from LMŠ earlier said that the aid was unstructured, which I would agree with, but the fact is, and the Secretary of State confirmed earlier that there was already a huge amount of funding from the State aid budget; you mentioned a billion in this round, so the state does not reach people as it should have been. It gets stuck somewhere, there's an x at some point where it stops. And where does it stop in ensuring some social sustainability of society? Stop by the employers, stop at the capital. One-and-a-half years of aid, and in Slovenia we have stories on the employers' side, such as the American Adient, the Italian Safilo, the French Treves, which received one 760 thousand euros from the country, the other 650, the third 250. The result of their work and assistance is a thousand people on the road. A thousand hundred people on the road. Then there's the story with Boxmark, the Alpine, the Cimos, the Gardenia and April, which add up to 800 people on the road. Thousands of 900 people at the time of the epidemic, during the economic and social crisis, constitute social devastation. It's a pattern, it's not a single sad specimen of action, but it's a sample. And the reason is that the government, while giving something to businesses, employers, without ensuring that these funds will melt into the social and financial security of those who create these companies, those who create the economy, and these are workers and workers. No fuses. The measures therefore do not reach the final address, i.e. the creator of the economy, the worker and the worker, one exception exists in these PKPs when the employees received direct means without proof, without any proof that they contribute or otherwise, and these are church officials. Workers who create the economy, who keep society awake, did not have this happiness. The self-employed in culture also received some funds, but they had to prove their value in a culture of self-employed persons with evidence that was otherwise legally applicable, which, of course, did not apply to church employees. In the Levica Group, we hoped that our amendment, which introduced this protector in companies receiving state subsidies or aid, would somehow establish and give them at least that three-month period when they would not forgive anyone. But the members and members of the committee responsible have not confirmed our proposal. The second problem, which we have also tried to solve with one proposed amendment, is the eternal issue of poverty in Slovenia. 254,000 people live below the poverty line in Slovenia, of which almost 100,000 are retired. The Bonnies proposed by the Ministry are extended this time, not only tourist, but also cultural, sports and guest vouchers, although they are a nice addition to someone who can afford, someone who lives in a middle class and can afford a trip and then take advantage of this voucher somewhere, but this is a completely useless measure for someone who can't even afford a trip to, I don't know, a holiday term in Podčetrk or whatever. Because you need to get there, there's something you want to see, something to do. But if you can't afford the whole package, the vouchers are totally useless, so we proposed to the weakest in the company of the Levica Group: "Hey, what if the funds that could be valued with these vouchers are used instead for what they urgently need for their survival, for food, for clothing, for textbooks, because of the new school year and so on?" Unfortunately, this small adjustment towards the establishment of a social state did not run into fertile ground at the vote on the Committee. Then there are, of course, events, another big point. The ministry came in a way a bit towards the organizers, but significantly too late. We know that the event sector is something that collides in very wide bands. In order to establish one event in the middle of the summer, the matter that the National Assembly adopts at the beginning of July is essentially recognised. Things may turn out to be in one-year cologne. Of course, what is even more painful at this point is the fact that the organisers tried to establish a dialogue with the Government at the beginning of the epidemic. The event sector is the first to be shut down and will be the last to be able to fully revive. And this is what the organizers of the event are aware of, so at the beginning of the epidemic they contacted the government, with the competent ministry, both essentially because they're passing a little bit of the cultural and economic ministry, and they said, "Hey, we've completely shut down! In our sector,” I think, “about 70% of the people working on a holiday are insecure, the social situation is uncertain, let us solve this.” 16 months later the government comes with some approximately coordinated proposal and changes it overnight before the hearing in the National Assembly, to the great regret of the organizers of course. They thought they were somehow aligned with the government. And the last thing. Since traditionally there has to be some kind of effigy in the government's PKP, the Water Act is here. Today, an early vote was launched in a referendum that questioned its meaning. Citizens have come to a great deal of enthusiasm, and the species before voters are now running throughout the country. Although the Water Act is not in the work that the referendum issue raises, however, as if the Government has to be a bit flexible, one bypass must look for ways to re-examine something that citizens are currently deciding. In particular, funding from the budget will move from the budget to the Water Fund for a number of activities in protection against water shortages. Because there's not enough body budget. It's enough for weapons, enough for tax breaks, but it's not enough for actual nuisance when the flood comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you very much. This round of debaters is closed. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first is given the word, Mr Andrej Černigoj, and Mr Soniboj Knezak is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u251	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have been very careful in the debate on all the proposals and in the debate on this point on the proposed law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism, in favour. All the debates could be reconciled with the European password United in different ways, only that we are competing here in different ways and that we are a little more shy about the association or even avoid it. But let's go back to the facts. We have before us a bill which, in my personal opinion, is good and will help the economy, tourism and many other industries, the sector, when this sector needs it most. I believe that you all agree on this in this Chamber, and we want Slovenia to emerge as soon as possible from this inconvenience caused to us by the invisible enemy covid-19. On the other hand, I wonder, especially when I listened to this debate, what would happen if in Slovenia the indignation was on fire. What would happen if in Slovenia the indignation was on fire? Before I start with the law, I'd like to take a step back and take a little look at what happened in the past. In the past, the current government, the current coalition, has adopted and implemented eight PKP laws. All these laws were in place, they were active, they helped the economy, and in particular they helped each individual and individual if you want workers and workers in the Republic of Slovenia. This time we didn't put money in banks, but we gave it to each individual. Here I would like to point out in particular some measures in the field of labour market responses, notably a short-term measure, a half-time measure, a waiting-for-work measure, a compensation measure for waiting at home and could also be listed. All these measures came from the current coalition, from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, by Minister Janez Cigler King, Minister of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Of course, we have not prepared the responses of the labour market alone, but in connection with the entire coalition. And, of course, the results followed. Whoever claims otherwise is deceiving, unfortunately he is deceiving. The data are very clear, and we have also repeatedly highlighted this data on the Committee on the Economy. If we look only at unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia, 71 000,881 people were reported at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment on 18 June, which is at least after September 2019. You might say that one piece of data doesn't show up, or one piece of property doesn't bring spring, but let's move on. According to preliminary data from the financial administration, VAT revenues in May 2021 were higher by 90.7% in May and 9.6 in May 2019. According to preliminary data, the tax revenues increased by 27.4% between January and May 2021 from last year and 1.8 from 2019. The Ministry of Finance reports that revenue to the State budget increased by 3.7 in the first third of 2021 compared to the same period in 2019 and 14.8 in the same period in 2020. Fiscal measures have ensured a rapid recovery of the economy, which ensures economic growth and reduces deficits and public debt. The growth of 5.5 GDP in last year was also significantly lower than the forecast, while also lower than the average of the European area. This is what colleagues on the other side of this prized hall have also forgotten to mention. Of course, it is easier to say what is wrong, what is the matter of commendation? Credit ratings in Slovenia have stopped at stable outlooks, in the assessment of A and borrowing abroad has never been so cheap or even with a negative forecast. First time in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as public debt is concerned. The opposition was very alert to public debt. Let us say here what citizens and citizens already know – that some have denied the existence of the virus, have cooled off wearing masks, and are now pointing to public debt. But to reassure citizens and citizens here, the public debt of the country has not increased significantly more than in other EU Member States. On the one hand, opposition parties are afraid of indebtedness, but on the other hand, we have Levico, who is not afraid of the country's indebtedness on the one hand if the money is well spent, which I think we are following this purpose in this case. This seems to be a new wind and the effects of the meeting with the new economic adviser, Mr Binet Kordez, appear here. Let's move on. And second of all, I'd like to stress this. The European Commission, among the first to adopt a positive assessment of the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan of €2.5 billion, on the basis of which Slovenia will use European resources to deal with the effects of the covida-19 pandemic. On the one hand, the current coalition with a green digital and resilient future for people and businesses, for prosperity for all, on the other hand, the European soft content funds in the past. The difference is obvious, it's visible. I wonder why we're so brutally different here. I am pleased, on the other hand, that citizens of Slovenia as well as the European Union have even more confidence in the policies of Christian roots, values across Slovenia and across the EU. This is also reflected in trust. If we go to the draft Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, I should like to stress here the reimbursement of full-time salary. The measure is justified by an employer who is a legal or natural person and could also be listed. The employee is entitled to a salary refund of 80 % of the salary, the amount of the salary refund is 80 % of the remuneration and is limited to half the average monthly salary in Slovenia for 2020. 80 % of the remuneration covered by the State includes remuneration with all taxes and employer contributions. In this case, I'm talking about a gross amount. Here it's a lie that employees don't get the money. These measures explicitly show that they are directed towards every citizen and citizen, especially the worker and the worker. On the one hand, it is possible to wave with populism, but on the other hand we have clear measures that have already worked and will continue in the future. We have also not forgotten the temporary measures in the field of tourism to help finance the annual holiday regression. We know that the tourism industry is in an unenviable state and we have jumped in here to help. This amounts to thousands of EUR 24 per employee to finance the annual leave regression. This money will be paid in full by the staff. To wave with populism that this money will not go to the employees is unfair and unfair. Let's move on, there's still a lot of action. Here I must also commend the work of the Secretary of State and say that assistance to the industry of meetings and events has not already been forgotten in previous intervention laws, and we are now upgrading it in this bill of intervention measures to assist the economy and tourism in the process of pardoning it. Partial reimbursement of the costs of organising meetings and events in the field of congress tourism, organizing events, concerts and fairs and other similar events planned in Slovenia since 1. 8. 2021 to 31. 12. 2021. The aid shall include reimbursements of 80 % of the eligible costs due to cancellation or 60 % of the eligible costs due to the limited implementation of the events. That is to say, we have already dedicated our assistance to the industry of meetings, events in the past by paying the compensation for waiting time, and we could also list, here we are further helping the industry, and we want the invisible enemy to be finished as soon as possible. It is up to us citizens and citizens to behave responsibly to be vaccinated, so that this industry can act with full lungs as soon as possible. We have also not forgotten the help of the film and audiovisual industry. The aid in the form of cash repayments shall cover the reimbursement of cash corresponding to 25 % of the costs directly spent on the production of films and audiovisual works during the period from the entry into force of this Act to 31. 12. 2021 in the territory of Slovenia. The eligible costs are not counted and we have made very clear what. Finally, we are also talking about vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of hospitality, tourism, but we have not forgotten about sport and culture. An adult resident in the Republic of Slovenia is entitled to a voucher of EUR 100 and a minor of EUR 50. Bon is transferable among relatives, and it could still be listed. So, we've been in contact with people, we've been listening to their requests, we've done everything. We've taken a step towards them. Anything's possible if you can. Now, in this room, we listen: “What if?” and we are looking for negative options that do not come to this marriage and help. I also condemn this way of working. This marriage, as you said before, is quite broad. We don't forget to help the cable operators. There will be a partial recovery of 40 % of the revenue from tickets sold and could be listed in more detail, but citizens and citizens can also look at this in more detail online. We have also touched on some laws, the Mining Act, where the concession contract for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is extended by one year, this is a real mining right extended by 18 months, and the Value Added Tax Act, the exemption of VAT for the supply of protective and medical equipment, which I think is important at the moment and in the right place. We have also touched on the Personal Card Act, where we extend the validity of our identity cards, so that in this proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism we have considered a lot of problems and we are also trying to eliminate them. It's over. Citizens and citizens, I must say that they have never received so much in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, says in their pocket, in their wallets. Of course, the situation with covido-19 is unique and I hope that it is unique in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also why I cannot believe why this negativity, with this ugly talk about this ugly capital. I think it's completely unnecessary here, untasteful. Here we are talking about — what would be said? – a dozen owners who exploit everything, rob and squander employers. Let me remind my colleague from Levice here again that in Slovenia, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises dominate. I understand we're not all for everyone, but there's no need to insult the average. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are 99.8% of all companies in Slovenia, we say they are the backbone of our economy, because they employ almost 70% of people and generate 65% of the income of all companies. I understand that these are not giant companies of the Holhozi, large state companies, such as we have in Venezuela, but I am proud of every smallest micro, small or medium-sized enterprise in the Republic of Slovenia, because I know they are doing the right thing, they are fighting on the market and also making sure that all taxes are taxed and that employees receive salaries, that is their first concern. Therefore, to conclude: I will be very pleased to support the draft Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism in Endorsing the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, and I hope that it will come into force as soon as possible, and thus also help the most vulnerable groups of people, citizens and citizens, particularly those sectors in need of this assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Soniboj Knezak, Mr Igor Peček is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I thought a sentence or two about the very content of this law, but after this odyssey of joy, which a colleague from New Slovenia has just done before me, I don't know if we live in the same country or if we work in the same Parliament. With all this success of this government, I would only ask for one comment. With the record debt you have made for this country this year when you indebted my grandchildren, when you say that people have never received so much money in the history of Slovenia – are you normal?Oh, my God! That's all I'm asking you. Are you crazy? With this money that you have distributed, you should target 120 per cent of the support of all citizens and citizens. Recordly low government support, SDS remains, New Slovenia is halfway through this result after public research, SMC no longer detects, and three retired Members who are still living are extending their salaries and mandate, allowing this government to – I will say, my colleague from Desus, who votes as I said, and supports this government, does not hope to get out in a small place. That's your successful story. Come on, please, stop it. Not to mention the deaths with your minister's so successful rescue, because there were older citizens in their homes! Let's be a little realistic. I come from the economy, I'm very real, and these things get me off track. I'm sorry, if I may have been rude with a sentence, it's not my purpose, but stop this pathetic thing. You successfully saved – do you know who successfully saved the economy this year? The export-oriented economy, which, although in the early months of this epidemic, suffered some market problems, but were indeed initial because international trade is in business. But the problem is those in Slovenia who have been blocked by your actions, which you have banned. Who you've banned from their activities. And we're inventing measures that half of those who are entitled to them don't understand, we change them overnight. Suddenly, aid becomes a loan that is now being repaid, instead of agreeing that we have two types of companies that are in trouble, and that, in order to resolve problems, in one way, as I said, companies that have had an economic downturn are in international markets, they have also pulled us out, and on the other hand those that have been closed. Relatively, it's a shame to make up a formula and I don't know what the damages are, but I don't know what, in my relative opinion, these proposals have already been given. The loss of income, a certain percentage of which should be reimbursed to those companies that you have closed, but not to invent new measures from the PKP to the PKP, administratively difficult, through how many services you have to go, two three months before you get the money. Look at how much money you've spent, how much it's actually spent, and we'll tell you how successful these measures have been. So much perhaps about what I didn't mean to say in my debate. Now two sentences are still around the Minister's opening remarks, and I think he had the same text on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, when he somehow said that we had survived this epidemic economically well. Well, depending on which side you were on. Some have survived well, and those who received friendly business with the purchase of protective equipment have been enriched. My friends, my friends, my moms, I don't know who else I'm not gonna mention. But I do hope that this story will once again receive an epilogue despite this attack, as you have in recent months portrayed it to the President of the Court of Auditors, who on the basis of documents has submitted a report and some suggestions to the authorities, which I hope they will do their work despite the pressures you are also making in recent months with the NPU. However, some of the results of this government have undoubtedly had, too, a shame to deny, some of the measures have been excellent, they have helped the economy, we cannot say no now. There would be more if we had a little dialogue in this country. I'm already repeating myself when I say it would be nice if you'd listened a little bit more often. But you don't. In his introduction, the Minister also called on the Committee for a kind of patient dialogue, networking. What kind of dialogue do you imagine if of all the well-intentioned proposals we have made, which point to some of the gray foxes that said they were still others, one has not been accepted? Is that a dialogue? But I am really glad that they have started talking to the economy more intensively in recent months. Today we wouldn't have – go to the website and see how many restaurants they sell in tourism. The effectiveness of the measures. Three months ago, you were asked in the field of tourism: "Have you given us measures? Let's not get lost in the last 100 meters." They've given some concrete measures, and it looks like we've lost them because people have lost them. Now they have the biggest problem when we slow down because they don't have people. Because with successful measures, 80% of the wages, when they didn't know if it would last another month, two, three months or another year, couldn't support their people, they went, they're everywhere today, just not in the restaurant. On Monday's announcements by the Prime Minister, with no results, we will close everything again in September if you, the ugly citizens of this country, do not understand how well we have taken action. Let us indeed listen, and I am also critical of the previous government, because we have been working roughly the same way in the National Assembly for decades, but I am only this mandate. Let us make good proposals for things that are common to us. It was not only entry into the European Union but monetaryly our joint project. We have to think about tomorrow, not to be busy – I ask the President of the Government, politely ask him, and he gives me the answer: “You have been in power since 1945.” What does that have to do with anything, please? My son, my children don't know what happened in 1945. He wants to know if he'll have a shot tomorrow if he can survive his family. These are questions, not that we're dealing with our own now, but that we're dealing with yours. Two more lines around this dialogue. It is indeed more intense now in recent months with the economy, even though there are two currents here. I was just surprised at the last session when we had a problem, I think, of transportation. On the one hand, one part of the guarantee that they invested in their companies, sell houses, go bankrupt, I don't know what, because the guarantee scheme didn't work. You've been warned about credit for so long, it wasn't any of it. That was a great move. However, we could have done the matter relatively with some leasings or similar things that we know about, and we did not do so. On the other hand, I listened to one part, and I would say, the establishment of these carriers, who are officials in some of the chambers of commerce, and they were sitting there, and everybody was bragging, and we're doing great with this government. Yeah, well, then I don't know. I like it, if that's the case, I'm the first one, because I live in this country, and if we're doing okay, we're going to do it because we're going to listen. There is no dialogue with the Economic and Social Council. As I said on the committee, if anything was clear to me, it is that you may have passed through the Economic and Social Council at first because we had problems with protective equipment, not Slovenia, as you said, the whole world had it, they stole goods, planes, they stole even the driver with whom the Secretary of Defense communicated. Not to mention then that security intelligence, I don't know what this job is doing. At four o'clock, he was running out all of a sudden. He was supposed to be here in two hours, he wasn't here, he wasn't there, he wasn't driving or the truck, so I wouldn't mention anything else. I welcome some of the measures, the annual vacation regression subsidy, also that you have finally heard the request of cable drivers, ski resorts. Also, subsidising part-time work seems to me to be one of the best measures and what they have not least pointed out for almost a year is that you have also allocated one part of these funds to the event industry, which reminds you that they have been without revenue for more than a year now. And that you've also dedicated $3 million to this industry, which I think is one pretty asset. In all these measures, this success story simply forgets the fact that you have a record debt to this country. And I understand that the rest of the world was in debt at that time, but don't tell me it's good that we're in debt because there's never been such a cheap debt in history. Great, you go to the credit bank and you get it at four percent or two percent interest rate. Great. Only the head starts to hurt when it has to be returned. My head probably won't hurt me, but maybe it will, because at the end of the day, I am counting that I will ever get a pension from this country, so that the systems will work again in the coming years. But you never tell me what our duty is in this country. I'll finish because you've put a little pressure on me. I'm sorry again if I was like this. I understand, I also support the government, the measures that are good, it is not a problem for me to commend, but for God's sake, in all that is happening, give some of this rhetoric, how good you are, to get for some octave lower. Well, take a look at the public record. The President of the Government said back there was a mandate that the elections should already be at a significantly higher level of support than the government currently has. But it seems that you are being held together by some of the interests of individuals who continue to draw their status for a few months for some wages at the expense of a satisfied people who express their opinions to you on Fridays. They're protesting in one way or another, but you're doing well. I hope this successful work ends as soon as possible. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mr. Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u255	Madam President, thank you for this opportunity of replica. Here I would especially like to refer to my colleague, Mr Sonibo's previous speaker, who, first of all, praised me with the ode of joy, me. I took it as a tribute, and others may have taken it as if you wanted to minimize me, but you certainly misunderstood me, so that's why your little pressure rise isn't in place. With your robust performance, even a few insults were in between, you want to wash the conscience of the Social Democrats, who have not been able to build a single home for the elderly since 2008, but have been able to spend a lot of money on various expertise. We got the wrong idea here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I appeal to everyone who will have replicas so that you do not abuse this institute too widely. We continue the discussion as soon as you calm down in the hall. Thank you. Mr Igor Peček has the floor, Mr Franci Kepa is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much, Comrade Prince, for saving me some introductory work. I will now shape my debate a little differently. Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you that PKP9 is not the only law that has provided assistance in any form already, together it is almost a billion, but I would not brag about it. I'm more worried about that. But I'm worried because there was a lot of money involved. I personally believe that this aid is unstructured or not structured enough and is therefore also ineffective or that the measures are ineffective. In my opinion, that is why – I have already said this once – because we cannot properly assess the reasons why we are taking certain measures and what we will achieve with them. But this is not a criticism of MGRT, at least direct not your work, because I believe that something agreed and coordinated on MGRT does not yet mean that it is confirmed on the government. But the fact is that the epidemic has been lifted, the situation in the economy is good in certain sectors, which is encouraging, but not in many ways, and it is even catastrophic. This time, however, the government, after all the promises we have been making since February or March to take care of this most burdened service sector, comes too late. The sectors that have been closed against their will because of measures – which I agree that they have to be adopted, even because of their own solidarity with the other segments or sectors of your economy, that the consequences of the epidemic have not been felt any more than we have - remain affected and their expectations are not met. This is highlighted by a number of stakeholders from different business groups, in particular service activities. I believe that measures to help businesses in these critical sectors should have been taken long ago. Why? So that companies can properly prepare themselves and know how, after such a very difficult time that they have had to spend at the time of the epidemic, when they have really fought for survival, when they have fought for their employees, who are key to the service activity, to re-establish some normal business in which employees, especially those in the industry, who are also a key cost – so I will also refer to one of your statements a little later on in terms of added value and labour costs. We need to know that in the restaurant, service activities are up to 70.75% of the cost, depending on the segment in which they take place. And once the employees leave the company, and this happened in the guest sector, it's very hard to get back. But if they come back, they come back a little, but those who do not have the proper powers come. But we know what it means for this segment if the service is not delivered at a high enough level or at least as high as the guest who comes, either this place, hotel, whatever, expects. We have repeatedly stressed in the LMŠ that predictability of conduct is one of the key conditions for a successful business. There were many proposals from stakeholders, we also received them in the National Assembly, we talked to stakeholders at various meetings, both with the employers' association and with the Chamber of Commerce, as well as with the inn, but the fact is that there were too many of their proposals, which you have also confirmed to some extent, but which have been over-examined, unfulfilled for such or other reasons. That's a big disappointment for the whole sector. The general assessment of the profession, if I speak slightly more broadly, is that the measures have been too late, too complicated and that the damage caused by the closure has not been adequately compensated or adequately compensated. The intervention law has been drawn up for several months in this law, which we are talking about today, exclusively on the PKP9, and the proposal that we have received to disappoint these stakeholders is also quite impoverished. Measures for intervention: vouchers amounting to 192 million, regress 22 million, not to mention further, total 243.55. I'm not sure it's really the right thing to do to help the restaurant, the hotel industry and all the other activities. We need to know that the reasons why people have not cashed these vouchers are very different. 46% of these vouchers, which we distributed last year, remain untapped and we continue with a very similar measure. The fact is that companies face liquidity problems, lack of adequate personnel, as I have already said. Bank savers' savings have increased by a billion and a half, I think even more, and they amount to more than 22 billion, and we are increasing or stimulating the consumption of citizens with tourist vouchers. Why does this seem so important to me, or why do I say it? In the LMŠ Group, we have already proposed a decision at the 10th urgent meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 10 March inviting the Government to companies with a government decree of 13. 3. 2020 closed, provides assistance in the form of a single financial incentive that could be used for different purposes, including with a certain predictability. Any form of partial failure would not be as important whether it is 80, 90, 70 %, could be more, in my opinion not, but more importantly, companies know that when the time comes, they can spend this money on liquidity bridging either for the purchase of raw materials, supplies or anything, including keeping those employees that we have heard at least twice that they have been left behind in the hospitality sector on the road or that the catering and service sector has left more than 12 000 300. And when we're talking about numbers, I'm not going to worry about micro, small, medium, and I don't know what kind of business everyone is, the fact is that 3,000 business entities were closed because they just didn't have money for employees or for their own survival. And that's the number, that's the official number. Comrade Knezak said that he meets or sees places that are closed and sold. Not only guest houses, but also other service bars. One more thing, because I'm running out of time. At the last meeting we met together, Mr Minister said that micro, medium, small companies are the pillars of our economy. I expected and hoped that this PKP9 would truly take care of this pillar. All of this cost us a lot. I will not assess whether we have spent too much to solve the epidemic and maintain jobs and even some measure of business stability, especially paying very much, and the fiscal world has been warning us for quite some time now, and we are standing by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretaries, nice greetings to my colleagues, colleagues! Today we are talking about the law of PKP9. This is the first one to go through the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the rest were accepted through financial means. This time, the main focus is on supporting tourism, catering and also a narrow part of the economy. The main flows of money are vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of consumption in catering, tourism, sport and culture. This time it's a little different than last year's adopted vouchers, so they can now be used more widely for activities, including book purchases, cultural events, tickets, offering, what I know, even for dinner at the restaurant. It is likely that the use of these vouchers will be even stronger than it was last year. Probably last year, too, this percentage would have been stronger had it not been for a stronger epidemic in autumn and, to say the least, a month ago. And it hasn't been used since the fall. As I spoke with some of the guests, however, they were very pleased with these vouchers to help them survive the season, in addition to other assistance from the State in paying their contributions, in paying their basic income. Without this help, a lot of people wouldn't survive. In addition, loans that were offered, which were credited for any investment or maintenance, included additional mints or the opportunity to transfer the loan to the following years and thus to help. The next aid in this law is very good, subsidising reduced working time in about 20 million, for a period of three months. Then help to finance the holiday regression, then help the cable devices. It is not only large cable systems that are meant here, but also smaller ones, which are probably just as difficult as large systems, and here the matter will be welcomed. The cableways also warned about this. While they had other aids than the economy, as I mentioned earlier, through the provision of contributions and basic personal income and other aid, they also requested and this is their expected assistance. Well, this is help for the industry meetings and events, film and audiovisual industry. There have also been comments here that these funds should be more, but this aid is now welcome to the film and audiovisual industry. It is likely that the last two years have been one of the most difficult for the economy due to the epidemic, so that without the current inflows in tourism and without this assistance tourism would die. However, all eight past CAPs have proved to be effective. The measures were largely correct and helped the economy and people to overcome the crisis due to the possible loss of jobs, waiting for work, helping independent entrepreneurs, farmers to pay their contributions and pay their minimum personal income. The measures were positive. There's a lot of talk about debt. It was indeed a debt, and all the countries were in debt at that time due to the epidemic. As far as debt in the past is concerned, it is possible to devote one session or one committee to see, from 2008 onwards, how much debt has been incurred by governments and what amounts have been. This will be evident, perhaps as now, some of them are needed and necessary. The past measures have contributed to the fact that we now have fewer unemployed, at present, than we had before the crisis. Now there are 71,000 unemployed, there were many more. All indicators in the short term are positive and are one of the best in the European Union. Even according to the ratings of credit rating companies that have not been so favourable in a long time. GDP in Europe is forecast to rise and we are in the first half of the countries according to all indicators. I'll support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. We've got three applications. The first one gets the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u261	A nice greeting on my behalf, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, the covida epidemic has caused a lot of problems for our economy and has caused them all over Europe, but we must be aware that the situation is serious and that certain measures taken to mitigate the difficult economic situation reflect by blurring certain numbers. And it's true, we have a record low unemployment rate of 71,000 unemployed, according to statistics. In doing so, it must be said that according to the Government, about 45,000 people were on hold for work in May and that those who had used these waiting measures were around 200,000. It would be right for the Government, when preparing these anti-corrosive and anti-crisis measures, to say how it will achieve that the people who are now on hold for work and are not considered unemployed will not, in the final stage, agree at the Employment Service. I could use some of those answers. Because, see, certain data in themselves are not logical if we know that half of the tourist capacity is closed, then how is it possible that the number of unemployed is lower than in 2019 when there was full employment in tourism and the peak of the season by number of guests and revenues. So in this sense, we are facing one statistical manipulation of data because some unemployed are still posted as employees. And that's what we're talking about. As far as debt is concerned, of course this is the question, the whole of Europe is in debt and Greece is also receiving loans at a negative interest rate, so, I will say, zero-interest debt is not a special privilege, but today this is due to certain fiscal and monetary levers carried out by the European Central Bank. We must be aware that these debts will have to be paid and settled, and we will still have a headache. Of course, it is right to ask ourselves how we are going to pay for this, because if we are already in debt and if we are in debt to generations that will be born in 60 years, then it is only right that they have something out of this debt that we carry out. If we pull back to 2008, because some fellow Members pointed this out, I would like to point out that the then finance minister, whom I very much respect, Dr. Bayuk, was looking for funds to recapitalise banks because he found that they had inadequate capital and he did not find any investor. So he was aware of the problems that had arisen, and apparently they were created in the then government. We must simply not repeat these mistakes from the past, and we must also learn from these mistakes that have been made in the past. In this package, which is now somehow addressed and shows certain things, of course, the holiday vouchers are welcome, it is also welcome money for regress, these are all measures that are somehow mitigating economic and social distress, but we need to know how to proceed. Raw materials are being irritated, life is being irritated in general, and we, in fact, do not know how to proceed with these debts that we create. In one year we have committed more than we will get with all the European money. When we see that in one year we can spend more than we will get in the financial perspective, and that money represents the government as one such rescue plant, then we see that there is a very large gap between reality and reality, which will leave us with a very severe headache. Some of the measures in this CAP are, of course, good, but I note that the number or frequency of adoption of these anti-Korona packages indicates that they may be somewhat under-thinked and that those who need to implement them are simply not able to implement them because the matter is changing too quickly and the beneficiaries cannot know what is being prepared for them, precisely because of this frequent change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you, Chairman. I can't help but agree with my colleague Sonibo. I couldn't do anything else. Precisely — What Is It Sayed? – stuck a nail, just the right one, great debate. Once you have to tell me what's true. I can't believe how a nonstop coalition can brag about what it's done. All she's done is one giant poof. That's what you did. That's what you did, $8 billion in debt. That's what you left us. You have left this to the next government, which you certainly will not, I hope for every money that you will not, and the next generations that will continue. It's sad not to brag about things, it's sad what you've done. I know that the pandemic is that all things needed to be done, something had to be done or done, but boasting about what you really did to not say – I apologize, colleagues from New Slovenia you are like children, Mom brings a toy and brag about the toy they bought you, but Mom doesn't have any other money to buy bread for the family. Do you understand me?Oh, my God! It's you. All the time, you boast of some of your accomplishments — what are they?Oh, my God! Because you bury and lay the foundation stones all over Slovenia? Those stones will stay there! I want to see what kind of money this is going to build with and who it's going to deal with. And now this forecast of a new pandemic, this new thing, what's going to happen. Of course, because you have to predict, because the government has practically already decided that there will be a new lockdown. She's already made up her mind. No coincidence that we will see what is going to happen — that is a decision! In this way, the fiscal world will again guarantee you one billion, so we'll go to 9 billion, a deficit for the second year, when we don't know what it's going to be like. Do you then realize that you are moving forward?Oh, my God! Everything you give, everything you increase, everything you've done, how will it be financed further? How will these costs be met? How much was it for the supplements? Where'd the supplements go? I've looked at other countries' statistics. Did you see where the supplements went in other countries? Those who were in the field, those who were really in contact with sick, nurses, doctors who were really in the first place, in the front line, if you say so. And we'll take the defolk right away. The guy was at home waiting, and he got the supplement, and they wrote him a vacation like that. Are we normal? What are you doing? Who are you bragging about?Oh, my God! In order for us to be quiet — no, we still have to boast here! About what? About what?Oh, my Look at what other countries have done. Germany, for example, has provided incredible advantages with bridging loans. How many times have I talked about bus carriers? Half of them have already picked up buses! The tourist buses that you said you couldn't help taking the lease, going to the SID bank leasing, which you could go with a moratorium for a year and then they'd survive it. Such simple things, how can you not see?Oh, my God! No, you have to give it to the priests, you have to give it to them to have a salary and everything that needs to be done, because they need it. It's all closed, the churches are working! And I don't care, because it's also right, but you can't do that kind of diversification between people. The tax write-off was made by Germany. Germany made a tax write-off, or did we make it?Oh, my God! Blackhead, be quiet. Italy, a special fund to cover losses. Italy has opened a special fund to cover losses, not on the market, as we have done! Because we just did — you know what we did?Oh, my God! Dr. Lakhovnik, who is the theory of entrepreneurship, the theorist, is not a person who knows what entrepreneurship is, because he has never worked in his life, he only teaches theories about entrepreneurship and then carries these theories into the truth of what it is and what it is not. I'll tell you because I tried that firsthand. Secretary of State, this is not Cosmopolitan, where you write advice and say what it is, this is a fact, this is a reality! It's a reality. Praise the 70 thousand unemployed. 45 grand, if I read it correctly, only this month will they ask for help waiting for work. 200,000 people took advantage of that thing here! That's what they say. They're covering up this data. I'm gonna have to check it out. I think it's a cover-up. Since those on hold are not going to work, new activities are being opened, new things have been opened up because they have closed off other activities, they are looking for new people, and those people come up to work. But those on hold get the money. What's going to happen to these people tomorrow? What's going to happen to these people? Don't brag about it today. I'd rather be quiet about that $70,000. And that's not true. I know these things. I know the first person. Tourism has 51% less revenue than in 2019, that is to say half less. A colleague here said precisely: how can it be that only 70 thousand – I think “only” – are unemployed, so much less if the activities are closed?Oh, my God! What are we talking about here? In tourism, 12% of people lost during the epidemic. 12% lost their jobs. These are the numbers. It's not a fantasy. It's numbers. Let's just sober up here for once. What have we done with all these packages now?Oh, my God! Of course, we helped, and a lot of people came in handy. It worked for a lot of people. But you know what the difference is? The difference is that when a person has the ability to be credited, to be in debt in the country indefinitely, he can boast, but one day it will be over. But finally, who will inherit this end? Who's going to be the one who's going to pay for these things?Oh, my God! People are aware. Pensioners came to me once in person, they said, "Marko, why do we need you to give us 150 euros more? We are home, we are closed, we have nowhere to spend.” Tell me, what do we need?Oh, my God! Give to those who have closed the activity, give to those who need it, and give it to those who need it. How come it's not clear?Oh, my God! Now you've given the vouchers, 100 euros. Who's in charge? 40% of the vouchers were used in your previous fantasy, when I told you exactly that it wouldn't be half of that used and I was right, it was only 40%. I said exactly then, I said give it to the restaurant, even for the restaurants, that it was in the same package – you didn't want to put it in. No, because it's a multiplicity thing, because here they're all going to the hotel and they're sure to spend it then because they're going to restaurants and whatever it takes. I'd say one expression, but I can't. But you saw what it is now? 40 %. Do not fix the matter – yes, now it will go another way, when we do not even know how this thing will go on. Now, you tell me if one goes to a store, one goes to a concert, or one concert, how will he control it, if it's still not used on Furs, or what needs to be done? I asked that last time, and nobody could answer me. “Yes, we will save.” How are we going to solve this? We need to use the vouchers by the end of the year?Oh, my God! Bone needs to be used by the end of the year! We're in July now, when are we going to solve this here? Next year? The one who is able to go on vacation thanks you, of course, because he will give you so much less money. But for someone who couldn't even go on vacation, it doesn't help. And if all these millions, as I said in my position, I had told you the exact position earlier, I would have given the one who needed money to the Guest you did nothing. [[…]] You've given the guest a regression now and you're asking him not to do a minus like 20%. That's what they say, they're going to get over it for sure! Seven thousand decisions from Furs demanding a refund is out. Seven thousand for the refund! Is that what you're doing? Why don't you say it honestly? Don't just say how many billions we've given, tell me how much you'll get back. And that thing for the fairgrounds, for the exhibitors, for the things I said and said, that's a farce, that's all a trick. No one will reach 10,000 euros in costs in order to be able to demand this back. That's impossible! That is, you praise, speak, work on how much we give and how much we give, but you also know that you will never give! That's a fact. And micro and small businesses won't get anything and won't get anything in a year and a half. You have to understand that. That's to be understood, Secretary of State. But you're still bragging about PKP9, what needs to be done. Welcome to a lot of people, because we also welcome, because we told you that we will not vote against, but we need to put papers on the table once, what will happen tomorrow. I didn't get another proposal for the rehabilitation of our system, how we're going to fix this whole thing. I didn't get it, and this question isn't mine, it's all of Slovenia. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Simon Zajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I've already explained some things to the board, and you obviously didn't listen to me, so I'll answer you one more time, because there's no problem. About the vouchers. The vouchers will have the same way of cashing as the existing tourist vouchers we passed last year. The company in which this will have to be cashed, which will decide to accept the vouchers, will go to Fursa's e-portal and check whether the person who wants to cash the voucher still has the funds in the account. This will be able to be monitored live so that this part is the same. All of this will be determined by a regulation that will, if you look at the law adopted within eight days of the law being enforced, next week, and the system will run out. That's very similar to the last one I told you on the board. You're just more upset today than you are on the board, and I don't know why, what I've upset you with, but this procedure will be very similar. Your statement that the inn didn't get anything is lies and deception. That's not true. All the measures that have been taken in the economy so far have also benefited from all these measures in the restaurant. In addition, we gave an additional 40 million in the restaurant, in addition only to them with an invitation. The last meal or second 30 million call was paid in the last week of June. So be so fair, Member Bandelli, that you don't say anything that's not true. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Waiting for work? Waiting for work was introduced to allow businesses to retain their employees at a time when the decisions made made them to be difficult, limited or impossible to operate. This bill proposes reduced working hours because a wide range of activities, particularly tourism, hospitality, will gradually start. This measure helps by gradually returning workers to work. Where there is no work, that part will then be subsidized by the state. Otherwise, we can agree that, of course, it would be better if we did not have to take these measures, but, as has already been said today, the measures have been taken to protect public health. Of course, the consequences are economic and we save them and we save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you very much. A replica? [[Yeah.]] You're out of time. The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State! I will touch on this glorification that we have experienced today in this national assembly. I have to say, it also encouraged me to stop by today. I cannot get rid of the feeling that we are just bragging about how this government is doing well, how all these measures are effective, of course debt is growing. And yes, this government will not give it out of its pocket, but they will pay these debts to the grandchildren and most likely others, my children, grandchildren and everything. So that I wouldn't be so boastful in this place, but I would look at this issue in such a way as to achieve the effect, or even the goal, which the Government has set itself and yet needs to be welcomed, but it has been announced since May by this CAP, today on July 6th, people have been waiting and waiting. Some of the measures proposed will also resolve the matter, but on the one hand, I fear all that has been said recently, and also what you have already announced in advance of the accommodation facilities, that accommodation activities will be closed as of October. I have a question about this short-term subsidy because you said that people would gradually return to work or come back at all. The Prime Minister of the Government also said yesterday that if there is no 70 per cent interception, such and other re-measures await us. You may forget that when activities are closed, you are also liable for compensation. For it is the responsibility of the State to prohibit someone from carrying out their activities and not to cover them. In view of all these measures that have been in place all this time, there are some individuals who I must say are on the verge of despair. But on the verge of despair, they have to pay back their basic monthly income. A few of them turned to us Members and said that it was sand in their eyes, that if they knew what was going to happen, without keeping them alive somehow, they would hope that they would be able to relaunch their activities, that they would receive a source of income again, and they would get another blow from behind — to return the basic monthly income. What group am I talking about? Firstly, I am talking about a group of those who worked part-time for parental protection in 2019 and 2020 and, on the other hand, I am talking about those who started their activities in 2020. What really happened was that they would have to pay the monthly income back — where did they come from? We're not talking about thousands here, we're talking about a few thousand, and if you're not actually preparing or having as much activity as you could possibly have, here I can also talk about hospitality and tourism, there's no way you're going to be able to survive. And yes, it's only a matter of time before they close. As we have already heard several times today, the guest facilities are closing, some tourist facilities will not open at all, because their forecast was such that in October things will be closed again. Why would we open in two months? In fact, they need to re-establish the whole apparatus, already in one way or another, the preparation of the start-up takes a while. And here we are. On the other hand, we have found that only 46% of the vouchers given in the previous CAP have been used. And here it would be nice to look at the statistics, who could've even used those vouchers. For we must be aware that the elders who dwell in the homes of the aged, who are motionless, cannot use these vouchers. That's one thing. The other thing is that the accommodation prices with these vouchers have risen tremendously. If we get a half-pension before we issue these vouchers, I'll be talking to the circus, 80 euros, and today you'll get 80 euros just for the night and breakfast. These are not small amounts, and many cannot afford it, for a few more resources are needed. For the night of breakfast alone is not enough, but at least another meal must be eaten. But you will most likely tell me, the Secretary of State, quickly, yes, because we are now giving these 100 euro new vouchers so that they can also be used for guest services at the time of the individual's stay. Yes, but first it is necessary to look at who will benefit them and, on the other hand, whether these tourist vouchers are really being used correctly or whether those who really need them are really getting them or not, we are exhausting certain accommodation facilities with this. For those who have little capacity will not receive as much aid as they were actually harmed at the time of their closure. So this bonus measure is welcome, but in order to actually keep jobs, it will not be successful in the long run, especially at this lockdown, which is forecast again. I really think that this money, these measures that we are giving, should be significantly more carefully planned, because we all want the economy, tourism, hospitality, cultural activity and everything else to come back to life in full brilliance, just as it was before the epidemic, that we never again find ourselves in such a situation as we have been in the past, because people just can't do it anymore, especially those who actually live away from it. So, indeed, measures should be given more structurally, to those who really need them. I am not saying that these measures that we have in this CAP are welcome, not to say, but I hope that they will achieve their goal, although I must say that at this point I doubt that we will be where we all want to be together. Otherwise, I will not object to this bill because, as I said, some things are good. However, I would like it not to be so much an obligation for people to do their jobs that services and accommodation activities are open to people to work. Because if I tell you, employees want to work. How many times have many said to me, "Let us work," and this is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u269	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to you all! I myself will personally support the proposal on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism, but it has been difficult for me to listen to all this deception, all these lies that have been flying out of the mouths of opposition Members and Members today. I believe you are doing a certain part of these measures and the success of this government's work on the nerves. I am sure that these measures are absolutely necessary. Covid is not only a threat to health, but mainly to the economy and jobs. I am convinced that the government of Janez Janša has succeeded with the measures taken in the eight packages. You're talking about debt, you're talking about debt increases, you see, all this debt is due to the incursion of covid-19 and that we've reduced economic damage, that we've protected jobs and that we've kept a functioning economy. Most of this money went to people, most of it went to the economy, and it wasn't spent for anything else. That the measures have been successful, the current results of Slovenia say: the highest growth of gross domestic product in the European Union, at the moment the lowest unemployment, credit rating agencies are increasing, increasing or maintaining them at the same level as they were, Slovenia remains a credible country and foreign credit ratings have attributed Slovenia a stable outlook. Let's just remember the screams and screams that the opposition launched in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. You almost called extraordinary meetings, but today the European Commission of Slovenia among the first European countries has confirmed this recovery plan. I suggest you think about it a little bit. Not everything is as black as you are in some way trying to present, and I am sure that these measures are appropriate. The government is working responsibly, the government is working for the people, and I am sure that Slovenia will come better from this crisis than most other European Union countries, mainly thanks to all these measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC, the amendment of the SD and Levica parliamentary groups and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members and SDs. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of SD and Levica's parliamentary groups and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since he doesn't want to discuss anything anymore, I'm closing the debate. Amendments will be decided on Wednesday in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Seven. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on measures to address the consequences of the cold in agricultural production between 5. AND 9. April 2021 in the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I'm guessing the government's representative isn't among us. The proposal for a law dealt with the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as its parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u271	Nice greeting once again in my name to all present here! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law as a working body at its 29th emergency meeting. 6. 2021. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on a number of articles of the bill, some of which were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. In an oral presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made a particular point of view, namely that the text of the legislative proposal contains several solutions whose standardisation is reserved in the executive branch and not in the legislative branch. The intention of the proposer to regulate in one law all material related to the resolution of the situation caused by the late spring 2021 is, in the view of the Law-Legal Service at the outset, inappropriate because it does not distinguish between the purpose and the meaning of the law and the law in the Slovenian legal order. Such a way is not correct and constitutes a violation of certain articles of the Constitution. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposal for a law should regulate measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production, while the legal provisions make it clear that most of the measures concern only the removal of the effects of fruit and wine-growing. She also drew attention to the question concerning the irrigation system Vogršček. Legal and regulatory services believe it is disputed that the problem of Vogršček is being resolved in the intervention law. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food presented a report from the Commission, which, although supported by the Commission's proposal, highlighted the issue of unequal and even unequal treatment and resolution of the consequences of natural disasters in agriculture. The case is last year's point of view, which led to fruit growers in individual parts of Slovenia at the time of all production, but did not receive interventional legal treatment. The majority of the members of the Committee announced support for the adoption of the bill and agreed with the legislative and legal services' warnings, as well as with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, that the problem of natural disasters due to climate change must be addressed systematically and in the long term and in cooperation with insurance companies. It is also necessary to be aware that natural capture has become a constant and the continued payment of damage is unsustainable for the state budget. They also warned that due to natural disasters, floods, hailstones, droughts and acorns, one or two intervention laws are passed each year. Such a practice is unacceptable and it is therefore necessary to consider how to address the risk in agriculture in the future. With regard to the issue of insurance against natural disasters, the belief is expressed that the current mode of insurance is ineffective and is not of interest to farmers or insurance companies. If a State were to establish an effective insurance system, such intervention laws would probably not have to be adopted. In particular, smaller farmers do not normally opt for insurance in particular due to high insurance premiums and excessive haircuts, even though the State subsidises 55% of the insurance premium. Although the latter has slightly increased the share of insured farmers, from 50 % to 55 %, the share of protected areas is falling significantly. Consideration should be given to establishing a risk fund for the risk of natural disasters in agriculture. This was discussed six years ago, but there was no solution to how the Fund was supposed to obtain funds. However, it is also felt that long-term insurance alone is not a solution. The Ministry should be better prepared for natural disasters, should act preventively and should plan such measures so that they can act immediately. Only with effective prevention will the damage be reduced in the coming years. Agriculture should also have a country-specific strategy, which differs greatly from country to country. This would encourage the production of crops that are more resistant by nature in individual areas. Members of the Committee also asked some questions. They also asked why intervention measures did not provide for aid to beekeeping, which also suffered a great deal of damage. Next. It is also questionable how effective it will be to purchase grapes from other wine-growing areas for natural persons who are not individual entrepreneurs, given that the frost has affected practically the whole country and there is a widespread shortage of grapes. As the proposal for a bill to help the most affected agricultural economies will provide the circus with €7 million, the question is raised on the basis of which data is set for such an amount, if the damage is estimated at €50 million. Before the final vote on the articles of the bill, some members of the committee of opposition parliamentary groups said in explanation of vote that they would not object to the bill because they were aware of the need to provide assistance to the affected, but would not support it because of the constitutional dispute between certain articles, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. The Committee has identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I have to warn you that you've gone a little over time, but it's good. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u273	Your Honor! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 5 and 9 April 2021. This has led to a significant loss of production, which has had a significant impact on the economic situation of some Slovenian producers. In the case of this year's cold, there were indeed extreme climatic conditions which were extremely insignificant for the first half of April. Unfortunately, these temperatures were lower than those at which fruit plants can still survive. This, however, caused damage to many kinds of plants and thereby significantly reduced the quantity of crops. Indeed, Slovenian farmers have suffered damage both in fruit and wine production and in beekeeping, and many crops and vegetables have been affected. The damage suffered by the individual producer depends on the quantity of production and the proportion of exposure to natural disasters. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, the proposal for a law is understood as a set of concrete efforts to help beneficiaries as soon as possible and a step towards normalising the operation of the affected activities and limiting the economic damage suffered by the beneficiaries due to the cold. We particularly support the efforts because we recognize the importance Slovenian agriculture has for our society. But we are aware of the uncertainty that agriculture is exposed to in us. It is not a year before we are hit by such or other natural disasters in Slovenia, so it is all the more important that we come to the aid of these vulnerable economic activities that are so vital to our society when they need us. The bill foresees many solutions for the situation of producers. In this context, it intends to provide aid to the most affected agricultural holdings in fruit and wine production, which will limit economic damage and, consequently, preserve activities. Among other things, the proposal provides for the implementation of measures in the field of credits, the provision of financing for agricultural production for affected agricultural holdings and the call for favourable loans for plant and wine production assets. The proposed set of solutions also includes some other measures, such as the call for more favourable interest rates on loans, the adjustment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for the injured, and the possibility of purchasing grapes and other fruit from other areas. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the assistance provided under the proposed law is in our common interest, as it will be quite encouraging to the sectors and will be appropriate, proportionate and transparently allocated. Transparency in granting aid is an extremely important factor in the issue of stimulating damaged parts of the economy. Indeed, it is necessary to ensure that only those who really need it are actually receiving the aid. We believe that the mechanism for the location of the aid presented in the bill follows this principle well. On the basis of these facts, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the colleagues and colleagues present! The proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the April cold in agricultural production was submitted for consideration following an urgent procedure and sent to the National Assembly. The draft law provides the legal basis for the final assessment of the damage to April’s cold and for the necessary intervention measures to remedy its consequences. Among other things, the proposed law allows for extraordinary harvesting of grapes from areas outside the wine-growing environment, as the april frost has affected fruit trees and vines the most. The proposed law is also the legal basis for implementing aid to affected agricultural economies in the form of favourable loans to finance current costs. For the implementation of remedial measures and for ongoing financing, the Slovenian Regional Development Fund will, from its own resources, offer favourable loans for operating assets of up to five years' duration and for the two-year moratoriums involved for repayment of the principal. The Ministry of Agriculture will provide funds to subsidise the interest rate. In the SAB Group, we believe that it is necessary to help affected farmers who suffered damage during the April cold. However, we note that when we adopt such a bill as we have before us, which our legal and legal service has literally torn apart, something is not going together. We warn that we cannot constantly disrupt our legal system by adopting intervention laws and that we need a consistent agricultural policy, which unfortunately we do not have at the moment. Overheating the earth and resulting climate change with extreme weather conditions increase the likelihood of natural disasters, which is negatively reflected in both the quantity and quality of crops and livestock production. In recent years, the biggest damage to Slovenian agriculture has been drought, heavy rainfall, floods, storms with hail, wind, cold, snow, stomach and weather-related diseases and pests. Climate change is changing from year to year. This requires the urgent adoption of a new, different agricultural policy that responds adequately to all the major changes and challenges posed by the present climate change. As I have already mentioned, agriculture will not be changed by adopting intervention laws that only partially and occasionally solve the problems of Slovenian farmers. We will not oppose the law in the SAB Group, despite the contention of the law, because it is a matter of helping Slovenian farmers who have not received the appropriate agricultural policy. We must stress, however, that we find it extremely unrealistic and inappropriate to adopt legislation that is not compatible with the legal system and does not even reflect any deliberate policy that would tell producers how to plan and act and what the state will do in the context of a new climate reality. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all present, especially the chairman, and of course to the minister who has just joined us! This year’s cold was just another disaster in the last eight years for farmers and fruit and vegetable processors. It is time we slowly realize that there will be no food without agriculture, and we will be able to talk slowly about the lack, the possible hunger that threatens us if we do not take action here and immediately. As already mentioned, mainly fruit growers and vine growers, who are at the forefront of the law of discussion, have been facing problems for the last eight years or eight seasons. Nature has been destroying their crops for several years. In 2014 and 2015, they were affected by the consequences of the Russian embargo and the flood of cheap Polish fruit in Europe. These were followed by catastrophic colds in 2016 and 2017. As a result, in 2018, an abnormally abundant crop followed when the fruit could not be sold and the purchase prices were so low that they did not cover the costs of harvesting. It's crazy, they'd say. In 2019, the resulting quantitatively weaker harvest followed, but at acceptable buying-in prices. In 2020, the spring frost again picked up a large part of the crop. The second wave of the epidemic took place in autumn 2020. The epidemic hit agriculture with a strong blow due to closed borders, pubs and educational institutions. A cold in April this year, along with quite full refrigerators of fruit that could not be sold, many farmers were given the last nail in the coffin, and they would call me a flower in a coffin. Without the help of each fruit sector, farms will not survive. As a result, I don't think there's any particular need to be exposed. Agriculture needs help yesterday, if we are of course in the interest of buying Slovenian, proven, quality and healthy citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to France Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The fact is that in this year's April 5-9, 2021 there was tremendous damage, frost, especially on the kosher fruit, meaning apricots, peaches, pears, including apples and early grape varieties. That is why we have proposed seven measures worth €50 million. The law allows for the State Commission to confirm the damage instead of the municipal commission, and this law also extends the time limit for reporting damage, instead of 15 days after the occurrence of the damage itself, it is time to report damage 60 days after its entry into force. Second point. The lease will be written off in full if and in cases where the damage is on a certain surface, more than 30% is claimed by the farm. Exceptional purchases outside the wine-growing environment already allow affected farms to be able within the wine-growing environment, and by this measure we extend the possibility that certain areas are fully affected so that a natural person can also acquire outside the wine-growing or affected environment. Fourth. When purchasing fruit, we allow those who are engaged in primary fruit production, such as processing into fruit and vegetable juices, preserving fruit, vegetables, production of vinegar and spirit drinks from fruit to continue their complementary activities. Point five. Aid under the disaster management programme and actually subsidising part of their income to these agricultural economies. Six. By means of this law, we allow the current financing measures to be lifted if they borrow loans from the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from the Ribnica, and these loans are extended by a maturity of up to five years with a two-year repayment moratorium on principal repayment. Seven. Exemption from payment of the maintenance fee of Vogršček. We have a strange system that doesn't work too justly in the face of natural disasters, and therefore I think it's a topic that needs to be thoroughly cleared, but we need to establish a system for all natural disasters by amending the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, so that we don't solve individual matters through intervention laws. Natural captures are a constant and occur virtually every year. Our SDS party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! Natural captures have become a constant and are linked to marked climate change. Studies by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia even show that the climate in Slovenia is changing even faster than at global level. Today is a fundamental question of how Slovenian agriculture has responded to this and what we have learned from the measures so far, and more importantly what measures the country will take in the 2021-2027 programming period to ensure that Slovenian farms are less afraid of droughts, droughts, droughts, droughts in fields, orchards and vineyards. Over the past six years, this has been the fourth year of a larger era and it has been called into question that every time the state budget is burdened to pay for damage, while in the area of preventive action or development and the strengthening of the mechanisms for adapting agriculture to climate change is still a great deal of space. In the LMŠ, we believe that it may be necessary, in the new agricultural programme period, to separate climate change adaptation investments into a stand-alone scheme with measurable and transparent measures and, of course, with an appropriate increase in funding for operations. Farmers and farmers have been waiting for three months for an intervention law, for which we find that seven measures and seven million largely follow the decisions of the law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in 2016 and 2017. This is why it is unusual for the law to be adopted in exceptional times of distress, and it is also legally weak and inadequate for cities, as the Law-Legal Service has pointed out. In the face of persistent natural damage, only a focus on the insurance system is a short-term measure that does not deliver key objectives and solutions in the long term. The establishment of the so-called mutual risk fund, which is indicated as a way of changing the insurance system, should, in our view, be primarily a complement to the preventive measures of technological protection of agricultural areas. As such, it must primarily be based on broad and fair integration, unlike the current system, in which for various dissuasive reasons a majority of farmers and farmers are excluded. The inefficient system of agricultural protection is thus reflected in the proposed law, as it clearly shows a significant difference in the aid of the State in favour of those with agricultural areas covered. In the interest of food supply, the country and the Slovenian farmer, it is not for the crop to receive an insurance premium, but for the sustainable processed food which it will be able to sell at a fair price on the market. It will be crucial in the future how to produce more food, how to take preventive action in individual areas, how to counter the production of more resistant cultures in the face of increasing natural conditions. No payment for the damage to the insurance companies can compensate us for the loss of destroyed crops that would feed us. The measures must therefore be geared towards safer and more reliable production, both qualitatively and quantitatively. We protect vineyards and orchards to the greatest extent by protecting the law, we are disappointed that the measures are not given to Slovenian beekeepers who still face an extraordinary fall in honey due to the cold. As announced on the home committee by the representatives of the Ministry, we expect a decree in LMŠ to mitigate the effects of the frost on Slovenian beekeeping. New green technologies and science in agriculture will play a key role in ensuring that farmers, when adapting to climate change on the one hand, will provide food surpluses affecting Slovenian self-sustainment and, on the other hand, maintain an ecological and sustainable approach to farming with extended food production seasons. Investments in research and development in agriculture and forestry, such as flow technology, irrigation systems, frost protection technology, seed banks, sustainable forest management based on adjustment trees, tree species and so on, of course, are crucial for the development of Slovenian agriculture. The spring catch has caused damage to an exceptional extent, and there is no longer any means of emergency maintenance of the plantations, which is also necessary if there is no crop. Therefore, regardless of what the Slovenian farmers and farmers have said, we cannot wait any longer. We will support the proposal in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u283	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We once talked about extreme weather conditions and centuries - old weather events, and today, hundreds of years of weather events have actually become annual or monthly, and unfortunately, extraordinary weather conditions have become regular. The reason for this is certainly global warming, which is the result of mankind’s irresponsible and reckless treatment of nature. Exceptional frosts, prolonged droughts, floods and winds, all of this is increasingly a threat to our daily life. And all these weather events and this situation are happening more and more often in Slovenia. The law to be decided at this meeting is intended to remedy the consequences of the extraordinary cold that took place in early April of this year. The damage caused by the ice cream suffered by the wider agricultural sector, and some farmers of agricultural products lost their crops for one year. The Ministry has drawn up a proposal for a law with the main objective of enabling the implementation of measures to assist affected entities due to the ice cream already mentioned, which is, of course, also a natural disaster. With the proposed solutions, which the drafter has written in the law, we are also mostly in agreement with the Group of Social Democrats. After all, we have some concerns about some solutions, but this does not mean that we will not support the law. In particular, we have doubts about the effectiveness of the exceptional purchase of grapes and fruit from other wine-growing areas or from other farms. We wonder how this measure will work if, at that time, it has affected almost the whole country and destroyed most farmers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we see a solution to the systematic and long-term resolution of such natural disasters in agriculture. There are many ways of resolving these aids, and we believe that a broader debate, involving all stakeholders, could provide a systemic and long-term solution. For we see that the weather conditions and phenomena are increasing, and sooner or later it will be necessary to find a solution to protect our farmers from agricultural products or how to jump to help them in such phenomena and mitigate the consequences of these devastating phenomena. Promoting and assisting and supporting local food producers and other agricultural products are of course essential for us to be able to buy, enjoy quality, health and, above all, locally produced food in the future. The legal proposal that we have before us today will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u285	Dear colleagues and colleagues! President, thank you for your word. We always point out that climate change is not a one-time event, but will not only be a constant, it will also increase, and preventive measures need to be considered. Now, for every single event, we are adopting a new law. The Legislative and Legal Service also wonders why there is no proposed system-wide regulation of similar events, if it is obvious that climate change often occurs. The regulation of each case separately with the law is not only inconsistent with the basic purpose of the law, which is intended to address certain issues in general and in all similar future cases, otherwise it may lead to a violation of the principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14 of the Constitution. And this is already the third law on the elimination of the effects of spring cold in the last five years, i.e. on average more than one every two years. Of course, no one is opposed to helping farmers who have suffered damage due to spring cold, but the law is badly written, as the ZPS also points out. In the spring we had two waves of cold, late March and early April, and the law itself speaks only of April’s frost. The SPS also points out that the law governs a whole lot of things that should essentially be regulated at a sub-legislative level. They say that the text of the law, I quote: "It contains several solutions whose standardisation is reserved to the executive branch and not to the legislative branch. The intention of the proposer to fully regulate in one law all material related to the resolution of the situation caused by the delay between 5th and 9th April 2021 is inadequate at the beginning because it does not distinguish between the meaning and purpose of the law and the sub-laws in the Slovenian legal order." End of quote. We often face a problem when the Government of certain things that should be regulated at a sub-legislative level simply does not want to be regulated and waits years and years for such solutions, but it is very unusual when the Government itself proposes a law that regulates things that could be regulated by itself in any way at a sub-legislative level, and the hierarchy of legal acts is turned to the head, because when dealing with problems, the law refers to the regulation rather than to the rule of law. Furthermore, the law appears to be misleading in its title, since it is clear from the provisions that most of the measures concern only the specific cold and the elimination of the consequences only in fruit and winemaking. And in a few months, some farmers who have suffered the loss of the cold will wonder how they are not entitled to the aid provided for in this law when it comes to the law to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production. The Act for Land Borrowers in Irrigation Systems in the Area of Irrigation of Vogršček in the calendar year 2021 abolished the obligation to pay compensation for the maintenance and operation of irrigation systems and in fact waited 13 years for recovery. This was finally the end of last year; the recovery was supposed to take two years and a few days of cold could therefore not have had a significant impact on the process of recovery itself. It is absurd, however, that at the moment we are talking about eliminating the effects of spring cold, we are already in the middle of a hot wave in which world-wide temperatures are falling. Climate change caused by global warming is increasingly showing their teeth and extreme weather events are becoming more common. Of course, it is necessary to help farmers affected by these extreme phenomena, first allowing them their own survival, and in the future to maintain at least the minimum food safety that remains for us. At the same time, climate change adaptation processes must be initiated as soon as possible. We don't practically have these or they run very slowly. Climate change mitigation processes or greenhouse gas reduction processes must be initiated immediately, where the situation may be worse than in adaptation. According to scientists united in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, we have a decisive step on the road to carbon neutrality, i.e. to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 alone, i.e. only eight and a half years. If we do not act by then, the consequences will be irreparable, and if we do not get serious on this issue, there will be laws like this from year to year. Since the law is potentially unconstitutional, we cannot support it in Levica, but because we agree that it is an emergency for farmers, we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u287	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, the well-respected choir! Agriculture as part of the economic sector is almost entirely dependent on weather conditions. It is strongly subject to natural conditions such as drought, heavy rains, floods, hail, winds, pharynx, and not least cold. And all of these captures are due to the climate change we have witnessed in the last 10 years. Between 5th and 9th April this year, we have already received captures in springtime for the fifth time in the last 10 years. The frosts are feared by all who live from agriculture and by different approaches, one of them is the approach by saving young buds in fruit trees, trying to protect their crops. This year's cold is expected to be one of the worst damage estimates so far, according to the estimated damage. The law we have today in parliamentary adoption regulates measures to remedy the effects of the cold and procedures for the implementation of these measures. The fruit industry, which was considered a parading sector of Slovenian agriculture in Slovenia, found itself practically on the verge of survival. In Slovenia, due to this year's cold, there are almost no skeletons, and also because of the cold, many vine growers will also lose their crops. With the help of candles and foil coatings, farmers could only save berries and fruit growers, and this time they could not be completely saved, not by irrigation. Even as low self-sustainment in Slovenia has worsened this cold, food is becoming more and more important and today it is practically the sovereignty of the country, which is more pronounced during the period of natural disasters. Being self-sustaining and ensuring food security for our people is a goal that we are pursuing and striving for in New Slovenia. The importance of food safety during the invisible enemy covida-19 could be seen when food supplies, especially vegetables, were partially disrupted by the closure of borders between countries, which also affected price rises and poorer care. The New Slovenia programme clearly states for agriculture that measures to adapt agricultural economies to climate change and to regulate the aid system in the event of natural disasters will continue. For Slovenian agriculture to exist, it is essential to regulate the aid system in the event of natural disasters and animal and plant infectious diseases. In New Slovenia, we are committed to making more money from the budget to co-finance insurance premiums aimed at reducing risks in agricultural production and fisheries by increasing insurance coverage. It will also be necessary to provide adequate assistance to farmers in cases of price and other fluctuations in agricultural crops and foodstuffs. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 5 and 9 April 2021, as it follows, among other things, our objectives and brings necessary assistance to affected farms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-06-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In line with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will make a decision on the draft law on Wednesday 7. Seven. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Since we have 10 minutes left, I'm asking if you want us to continue, or if we stop at this point. We're breaking up. Okay. I also adjourn the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, July 7, 2021, at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
