ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Igor Zorčič from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Marjan Šarec to 13 p.m., mag. Dejan Židan by 12 noon, Brane Golubović, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Željko Cigler, Soniboj Knezak and Aljaž Kovacic. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. Agenda item – Proposal for a Decision on the approval of the Rules of Procedure on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual SPORT FUND programme in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 16, paragraph 16, of the Sport Act, Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 24 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of the Sport Foundation submitted the Regulations on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sport Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Sport Foundation Council, Aleš Remih.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and other Members present! My name is Aleš Remih and I am the President of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia or the Sport Foundation. The Sports Foundation is an institution established by the State in this area 20 years ago to co-finance various sports programmes in the Republic of Slovenia. The largest proportion of these concession fees are contributed by Lottery Slovenije and Sport lottery. We co-finance competition and top sports programmes, building sports facilities, performing sports events, development activities in sport, science and research projects in sport, sports and recreational programmes, publishing in sport, scholarships for gifted athletes, contributing to the Fund for Excellent athletes, supporting activities in the field of protection of the rights of national associations and athletes to participate in non-dating sports and so on. Each year, he runs for the Foundation very many sports organisations, municipalities and other institutions active in the field of sport. In 2021, 215 different organisations or institutions were nominated for the Foundation's invitation to tender, and we received a thousand 222 applications for various programmes. The value of all the programmes with which they run was 36 million euros in 2021 and 9.5 million euros in the tender. We distribute all funds in accordance with the rules and other acts of the Foundation. In order to prepare a new Regulation on co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, for which we have asked your consent, the Sports Foundation decided, on the basis of the structural consistency of the existing 2017 Regulation with the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia. The Foundation has eliminated these structural derogations from the national sport programme by means of a new regulation which is subject to consideration, and at the same time the new regulation does not in fact bring major substantive changes to the co-financing of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for Sport. We have also aligned the Regulation with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport, or the Directorate for Sport, and have taken into account all its comments. The Regulation was also approved by the professional Sport Council of the Republic of Slovenia and was also addressed by the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Rules of Procedure. In order not to be too long, let me conclude that the foundation is one of the main pillars of co-financing of Slovenian sport and that the decision of the state to set up a foundation 20 years ago was an excellent decision, which greatly helped to develop Slovenian sport and achieve such top achievements in all segments of sport. Thank you very much for your time and good work.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Regulation considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as its parent body, which submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on consent to the Rules on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Sir from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations! At its 18th session, on 5 May 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the rules on co-financing the implementation of the annual Sport Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia under Article 16, paragraph 4, of the Sport Act and Article 24, of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service examined the Foundation's Rules of Procedure from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and did not comment on it. Following an introductory presentation of the proposal, the law of the decision by the representative of the proposer followed a brief discussion in which a member of the committee thanked everyone who had participated in the draft regulation and addressed to the president of the Foundation, the Board of the Foundation the issue of the funds allocated to the regional offices the conditions for co-financing and the amendment of the legislation. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree on a co-financing regulation for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, of 17 December 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The government has not announced time at this point. Similarly, the parliamentary groups which had been announced cancelled their presentation of their views. We will decide on the proposal for a decision on an agreement to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION ON STARS' PROTECTION AND SOCIAL ACCOUNTS IN THE FIELD OF THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 41 Members and Members with first-signed Alexander Rebersk. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Aleksandr Reberšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Today is a very special day for me. Since my entry into parliament, I wanted to make life easier for children with special needs and their parents, not by collecting stoppers and individual donations, but by helping everyone for once. As a member of New Slovenia, a government party that is close to people is being realised today. For children with special needs and their parents we have been in Novi Slovenija since last March, since which we wanted to do in the government as much as possible. Let me briefly summarize the most important solutions we have been able to adopt in this short time. In the first wave of the epidemic, we insisted that the solidarity allowance was given to all parents of children with special needs. At that time, I stated that if the money was received by healthy individuals receiving financial social assistance, the parents of children with special needs should also receive it. We have arranged for free accommodation of parents with sick children in the hospital until the age of 15 and without age restrictions when talking about people with special needs. The parent also automatically owns a hospital allowance of 80% of the basic salary for the period of stay in the hospital without the special confirmation of the medical commission. In the second wave in Nova Slovenija, we made sure that all parents with special needs receive a 100 euro higher care allowance each month from the beginning to the end of the epidemic. We have a new proposal from New Slovenia and the coalition ahead of us when we increase the compensation for the lost income of children's parents with special needs by equaling gross minimum wage. If we look back in time, we can see that the partial loss of income payment since 2011 has only been harmonised once, from 734.15 euros to 751.77 euros as much as it still is today. That's 588 euros net. Therefore, in 11 years this refund increased by only 17.62 euros, which is 1.6 euros per year. In this Government, however, we want to raise compensation by 150 euros per month. The difference is obvious, so I believe that today this proposal will receive not only coalition support but the support of all Members of this National Assembly. I am grateful that Nova Slovenija has a hearing for our weakest citizens, as we have proved many times in the past. But I am aware that parents are children with special needs to earn much more. Children are our wealth, so much the more we can feel when we meet parents who nurture and protect children with special needs. This is also related to the patience and denial of both parents and children. In Novi Slovenija and in the coalition, we want to make it possible for such families to be at least slightly more patient. In this place I also thank you and all those who work and strive to improve the status of children with special needs sincerely for everything you do good for children or people with special needs. Many individuals have paid a variety of hours of therapy, bought diapers for the child, filled empty refrigerators, paid off loans, or allowed children to operate. You have helped parents of children with special needs because alone with the incomes they have not been able to do so, I am extremely grateful to you. In this house, we are even more responsible for our fellow man and for allowing him to live a decent life by means of legal regulations, so that these parents will not have to stand in front of the cameras and ask for money so that they can give their sick child a decent life. Only actions count all words are superfluous. It is our collective victory, which I personally dedicate to all children and Anita from Šmartno in Paka, Luke from Žalec, Larissa from Celje, Loti from Slovenian Konjice, Luke from Poljčan and Tijan from Šmartno in the Rosna valley and their courageous parents. Their life stories are not easy, but they are still fighting and looking forward to tomorrow. But you always touch me in the heart, make me weak, and encourage me to fight for you all the time. We did it together.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Alexander Reberska to the Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposer, namely the Ministry of Labour, the State Council, the Legal and Legal Service and the representative of the company Viljem Julian, the Association for Assistance to Children with Rare Diseases and the representative of the Happy Legs Society. The Committee was provided with material which was published on the website of the National Assembly. The representative of the candidates briefly presented the novel, the government representative said that the Government supported the draft law and was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. Their representative said that the novelty was recognised as one of the important steps towards upgrading the system's care for children in need of special care and care and their families, recognizing that the material part of the concern was only one aspect of the complex needs associated with the provision of one of the most vulnerable parts of the population. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law from the point of view of their competence. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendments tabled were prepared on the basis of their opinion and pointed to a transitional provision where it was necessary to examine whether the deadline was long enough for all necessary harmonisations to be made in time for the transition to a new regime. Representatives of the company Viljem Julian, the Society for the Assistance of Children with Rare Diseases and the representative of the Society of Happy Legs presented to the members and members of the Committee the efforts of associations and NGOs to improve the situation of families and parents who have children with special needs, disabled children or children with rare diseases. They shared with us their hard life experiences that they had on this journey. In the debate, all the participants stressed the need for law to be subjects that clearly link us together. All the debaters also stressed that they would support the draft law in their parliamentary groups, and they also unanimously supported the two amendments tabled. They agreed that the legal changes related to the partial payment of lost income were recognised as one of the important steps towards upgrading the system's care arrangements for children in need of special care and protection and their families. Of course, it must be realized that the material part of the concern is only one aspect of the complex needs associated with the provision of one of the most vulnerable parts of the population. It was pointed out that active cooperation is important in such procedures and content, but that there is always room for improvement in this area. The Committee has adopted the amendments and all the articles, and a proposal for a new law has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u9	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Cvet Uršič, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and one option. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Family policy in Slovenia pays particular attention to the care and protection of children and follows the best interests of children. The State shall, to the greatest extent possible, ensure the exercise of the rights of the child and monitor their situation closely. Children are a special social group because they are entirely dependent on adults and because of their age they are excluded from decision-making. Because they cannot influence their situation themselves, they are extremely vulnerable and need special care and protection. Their situation and circumstances are largely linked to the situation of parents and caregivers. Parents in need of special care and protection are entitled to a number of rights under the applicable legislation: the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act provides for the right to extend parental leave, the right to work with shorter working hours than full time, the right to an allowance for the care of the child and the right to partial payment for lost income. The Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028 contains as an important measure for all families a friendly company, including, inter alia, increasing the amount of the partial payment for lost income to the amount of the minimum wage under the regulation governing the minimum wage. In the case of a partial payment, the remuneration received by one of the parents or another person when he leaves the labour market and begins to work shorter hours than full time due to the care and protection of the child with special needs, the spouse or the extra-marital partner shall also be entitled to partial payment when he actually nurtures and protects the child of his or her spouse or extra-marital partner, provided that such rights do not, of course, benefit the mother or father of the child and fulfils the other conditions laid down by this law. Partial payment can also be used in half-hours. The amount of the partial loss of income payment is currently gross EUR 751.77 per month. If one of the parents is working with a shorter working time than full time, he shall be entitled to a proportional part of the partial payment. On 3 March this year, the Group of Members and Members, signed by Alexander Rebersk, tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, proposing that the amount of partial payment for lost income be increased to the amount of gross minimum wage per month, currently EUR 1024.24. If one of the parents or the other person takes care of or protects two or more children referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the amount of the partial payment shall be increased by 30%. The amount of the partial payment for lost income will no longer be coordinated as other transfers to individuals and households, as it will be linked to the gross minimum wage. It is anticipated that, as long as it is accepted and I believe it will be adopted, it will enter into force with 1. Seven. 2021 and social work centres will coordinate the amount of the partial payment to existing beneficiaries by 31 July of this year. The payment will thus not affect the duration of the rights of harmonisation of the amount in the month of August. For children who need special care and care and their parents, the government is doing its best. Even at the time of the epidemic, we did not forget about them and were given solidarity allowances. The government understands that parents or that these children need special care and help and therefore understands that parents need to be properly rewarded. This is why the Government supports the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Sports Party of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Finally, the day has come when we will decide on a proposal for amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, namely to raise partial payment for lost income. Partially paid for lost income is the personal income received by one of the parents or by another person when he or she terminates a working relationship or starts working for shorter working hours due to care and the protection of a child with severe mental impairment, a difficult-to-moval child or a child with a disease listed in the list of serious diseases. The amount of the loss of income is nominally fixed under the applicable legislation and has only been harmonised once since 2011, from EUR 734 to EUR 751 gross, which amounts to only EUR 580 net. With this amendment, this amount changes and will be fixed at the minimum wage. Parents or guardians of these children would certainly earn much more for their outstanding mission, but their work and worries cannot be calculated in money. No height outweighs their devotion and love for their children. We are all Members and Members of the coalition who are proposing amendments to this law, and there have also been many contributions to this change from different societies that are constantly fighting for the rights of children and their families. With the amendment of the coalition, we have also upgraded the law by increasing the amount of partial payment for lost income by 30% in cases where a parent or another person is caring or protecting two or even more children with moderate or severe mental impairment or moderate or severe mobility. It is parents who face extremely difficult circumstances and especially high costs, since they also care for and protect two or even more such children. This work or a better - said mission of life is extremely difficult, both physically and mentally, and unfortunately, it cannot be paid in real height. As of 1 July, the amount of partial payment for lost income will no longer be coordinated under the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, but will be linked to the amount of the minimum wage. The existing beneficiaries of the partial loss of income payment will be harmonised by the competent social work centre to the amount of the partial payment at the level of the applicable minimum wage at the level of the official duty, so no role of the party will be required. The aim of family policy in Slovenia is mainly to ensure the quality of life of families, with particular emphasis on the quality of life of children, as well as the protection and protection of families. In 2018, the Resolution on Family Policy for the period 2018-2028, entitled "All the Family-Friendly Society", was also adopted. This gave a clear signal that the family has a special status in society and that we are aware of its importance. At the same time, it was listed as one of the measures just to increase the amount of the partial payment for lost income to the amount of the minimum wage. Family benefits and benefits help parents to survive, train, educate, and care for their children. The purpose of these different rights and facilities is to ensure in particular that families do not deteriorate in material situations due to the birth of a child. This is particularly important in large families and families who care for children or children who need special care and care. We want to help these families today, even though we should have helped them a long time ago. In the SMC Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! One of the basic tasks of the social state is to create the right conditions for the quality of life of citizens and their children. So to ensure their protection and protection. Family benefits are part of family policy. One of the family benefits is partial payment for lost income. Part of payment for lost income is the personal income received by one of the parents or another person when he or she terminates a working relationship or works shorter working hours due to the care and protection of a child with severe mental impairment or a severe movemental disability or a child with a disease listed in the list of serious diseases. One parent who cares for and protects two or more children with the need for special care and protection may also exercise justice. This means that either one of the parents leaves the job so far, works only four hours a day, or logs out of the unemployment register to stay home with a child in need of special care. One of the parents in this case receives a salary of 734.15 euros per month. According to the law, he also has a child care allowance. The new law, which is before us today, stipulates that the amount of the partial payment for lost income in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act is no longer nominal, but is set at the gross minimum wage, which is a thousand 24.24 euros for full-time work. That's an important move. We also recognize the proposed change in the SAB as a step towards upgrading the system's care for children in need of special care and protection and their families. We also supported the amendment, which provides for an increase in the partial loss of income payment by 30 per cent in the case of the care of two or more children who need such care. As has been pointed out several times in the debate on the parental committee, material care is only part of the concern of the complex needs associated with the provision of one or more of the most vulnerable parts of our population. [[…]] Caring for a child with special needs is a work that lasts 24 hours a year and is both physical and psychologically demanding for parents and the whole family. Therefore, in addition to the material aspect, appropriate adjustments to the field of life and assistance in the whole-day physical care will have to be provided in the future. We will also support the proposal in the SAB Group, and we are pleased to see that this is one of the few proposals that enjoys a broad consensus in the National Assembly, as caring for children with special needs is one of those categories for which we simply need to find funds in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The phrase “children are our greatest wealth” has all been heard or spoken many times, and at least those with whom we are blessed are aware of it in full and with all our heart. The Republic of Slovenia devotes a relatively good traveller to family policy. With many institutions under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, we are comparable in terms of international comparability, and we can be proud of that. Today, by confirming the change in the amount of the partial loss of income payment, we will once again show that we are a society in which the family means something. In Slovenia, the Institute of Partial Payment for Loss of Income receives one of the parents or another person when he leaves the labour market or starts working shorter hours than full time due to the care and protection of a child who needs special care or protection. It is possible for parents to exercise the right to leave the labour market or to work with shorter working hours until full time and to devote more and more intensely to their child, who, due to severe illness, mobility or mental impairment, needs significantly more help than a fully healthy child. The current legal standard provides that the amount of the partial loss of income payment shall be fixed at a nominal amount of EUR 734.15. This is the amount of the minimum wage fixed in 2010. Finally, the amount mentioned in accordance with the law was valorised in 2019 to EUR 751,77. The proposal that is before us binds this amount to the amount of the minimum wage. The latter is followed by a new formula this year to determine the amount of the minimum wage by reference to the minimum cost of living. This creates a meaningful relationship between the incomes of workers and inactive persons and a more equitable and fairer treatment of all employees, in particular those with the lowest income. The amount of the minimum wage shall be determined, taking into account the rising prices of the living needs of wage movements, economic conditions or economic growth and employment movements, between 120% and 140% of the minimum cost of living by reference to tax rules allowing for the determination of the gross amount of the minimum wage, in particular in this year's figure, that is a thousand of 24.24 euros. Taking care of a child with special needs for the above reasons cannot be imagined if you do not directly experience this as a parent or a loved one. Work is as hard as physical as it is psychological. The contribution of love and patience is invaluable, not even talking about the substantial cost of living that affects the family. Today, all members of the Desus Group will contribute to the amendment of this law, and I myself have been a co-signer of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State, say good-bye to all! We are co-signed by the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, and we will, of course, support it by today's vote. This is a problem that has been unregulated for many years and has been pointed out by many in the first place by parents of children who, due to the protection and care of children with special needs, have been compensated for the loss of income, as well as by the Ombudsman and other representatives of civil society who come in contact with children and their parents in their work. We are talking about the most vulnerable members of our society who are facing severe mental development problems or who have been more difficult to deal with, and their parents are those who, for objective health reasons, either have to break their working relationship or work for shorter working hours. Parents have received compensation to support themselves and their child, which is an additional social problem due to the amount currently set, and therefore the requirement of all those who point to a lower amount or a higher need for compensation is justified. So today's amendment to the amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits raises the level of partial payment for lost income to the level of gross minimum wage per month. At the same time, the law provides that if one of the parents or the other person nurtures and protects more children, the amount of the remuneration is increased by an additional 30%. This is probably not the last legal change that would have been necessary to make these children and parents easier every day, and at the same time at the systemic level, their situation has been fully regulated, but regardless of all the important steps towards this goal. Some of these have already been adopted in this mandate and in previous references to the National Assembly. However, attention must be paid to those areas where further improvements in the situation of children with special needs are needed. As already pointed out in the introduction, we will, of course, support the proposal of the Non-Aligned Members in the Group of Members. We believe that we are in need, caring for the quality of life of families and especially the quality of life of children and their protection and protection today are all united. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group will be presented by Dusan Šiška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The law is very messy and chaotic in the area of people with special needs. It is necessary to advocate a comprehensive regulation of the law, where a rise in the amount of compensation has been pointed out over the years by the guardians of children with special needs only a small pebble in the sea. The current amount of the refund, which amounts to around €752 gross per month, does not allow them to live normally, as children and parents are being pushed to the brink of poverty and survival from day to day, thus making their social problem worse. After the new loss of income, the proposal would align the novelty with a gross minimum wage of EUR 1 000 gross. The latter would be more than welcome, for the daily work of parents with children with special needs is responsible and difficult both physically and mentally. As you can see for yourself, so far there has been no political will to deal with the burning problem, which shows the fact that the compensation has only been harmonised once in the last decade, which is a disgrace and only for about €18. Let us not forget that families and children at the time of the COVID-19 epidemic carry an additional burden on their shoulders, are exposed to many hardships both in the workplace, in school and at home, so it is our duty to listen to them and, of course, also to help them. At the time of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, approximately €600 million was provided for family policy measures in the previous year, the largest amount of funds in the last eight years. The increase in the amount of the partial loss of income payment to the minimum wage would thus amount to around EUR 3 million, additional funding per year, which we believe in the SNS does not constitute too much for our country. It is right that the listening initiative of the Association of Villas Julians, a society to help children with rare diseases, continue to hear the voice of the initiative of the three mothers who have established a special working group, and to adopt the New Slovenia initiative — Christian Democrats, who are unselfishly striving for their better status.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The views of the SDS Group will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, let me say that I am very pleased that today we actually have finally before us the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which will at least slightly improve the material situation of all those families that have children who need special protection and care. When I was contacted by William Julian Society, a society that came from the difficult trials and experiences of the parents of little William Julian, Mrs Nina and Mr Blaž, and presented me with an initiative to improve the situation of these families, I listened to them immediately and most importantly, I heard them. As has been heard by the proposer of this item on the agenda. On the basis of these discussions, we then decided to table a law before all of us today in the NSI, SMC and SDS groups. It's a small change of law, but it's very important. The law increases the partial payment for lost income received by one of the parents, who, because of caring, caring, and protecting a child with special needs or severe rare diseases, had to break the working relationship. In 2018, in the National Assembly, we adopted a resolution on family policy in which we committed ourselves, inter alia, to be a family-friendly society, to take care of the most vulnerable, to give special care to families with children with special needs, in order to ensure their material security, including through family benefits and benefits that help parents to survive, raise, educate and care for their children. The purpose of the various rights and facilitations, as already stated in the introductory observations today, is to ensure that families do not deteriorate at the birth of the child and that this somehow protects and protects them. This, of course, is particularly important in large families, to which we pay particular attention in this Government, and in families with children with special needs. Let me also say that, as President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I am truly pleased that we are opening the Committee's contents and proposing new laws that actually improve the situation of the most vulnerable in our society. Already on the committee, we have shown by vote that in the political space we can unify ourselves, that we can step together, and I believe that even today's vote will be exactly the same, and that all Members will support a law that will greatly cheer up families who have children with severe mental impairment, a hard-to-moving child or a child with a disease in the list of serious diseases. It is a matter of families facing difficult life experiences, trials, and circumstances. These, however, require particularly high costs for the treatment and care of children, so it is appropriate to help them and at least make their situation a little easier for them. Finally, let me say that I am grateful that I was able to listen to the inspiring speech of the initiator of this change of law, Mr Blaž Besenšek, the father of little William Julian, who is looking at us from heaven today and who is forever a messenger of all children with severe rare diseases. Mr. Bezenšek said among other things (quote): “We grow together through experience, we develop. Sometimes experiences are very tragic, but if we turn them in the right direction, they can become useful and also inspiring." (The end of the quote.) Let there be not only time for stumbling in the political space, but time for useful things and especially for working for the good of people. Today, this law is one of these steps for the good of the people. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u24	Your Honor! The new law before us today is the fruit of the efforts of the Association of Villas Julians to eliminate injustices and improve the situation of children with special needs. The company has recently pointed out the long-standing issue of the inadequate amount of partial compensation for lost income and called for legal changes in this area. With amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, we follow the social proposal and raise the amount of partial payment for lost income. The latter belongs to one of the parents or the other person when he leaves the labour market or starts to work shorter hours than full time due to the care and protection of the child and is currently set at around EUR 580 net. This is the amount of the minimum wage from 2010, which is absolutely too low. Newly, for one of the parents or the other person caring for or protecting the child, the amount of the partial payment will be fixed at minimum wage, i.e. EUR 736 net. However, for a parent or other person who cares for or protects two or more children, the amount will increase by an additional 30%. In LMŠ, we support the proposal of the law. Last but not least, on 1 March, with a question from the competent minister, we called on him to listen to the initiative of the Association of Villjem Julian and to prepare amendments to the law. We then unanimously supported the new law in the LMŠ at the meeting of the parent labour body, as well as the decision of the committee proposing to the Government to prepare appropriate legislative corrections to enable family assistants to coordinate lost income with the height and growth of the minimum wage. A good week ago, we witnessed the rejection of the agenda of the May Assembly, which included the consideration of this law. Coalition Members have begun to deceive, lie with the President of the Government, that the actions of the opposition will not be taken into account by the law and that the parents of children with special needs will not receive a higher payment for lost income. It should be said that in any event, the law would be dealt with at the next meeting of the assembly, even if no special extraordinary meeting had been convened and adopted on time. How vile it is to make a political campaign and find fault with my own mistakes on the shoulders of children with special needs, I will not lose words. It is, and this must be made clear, that no one opposes the adoption of this law and that the amendments will, of course, be adopted. In addition, the entry into force of the Act of 1 July is envisaged, which means that there is nothing lost. In LMŠ we are aware of the pressures faced by parents of children with special needs. We are also aware that many parents of these children have devoted their lives to caring for these children. They are cared for night and day, seven days a week and 365 days a year. As a result, they often leave their jobs, which means they give up their income and careers. They don't have sick leave, they don't have regression, they don't have working hours. Members and Members of the LMŠ will certainly support the amendment of the law and continue to strive to improve the situation of children with special needs and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members, honourable Members! Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law tabled by the Group of Members, as we support all good measures in the field of improving the material situation of families and children. Such solutions are all the more important in families that care for children in need of special care and protection due to severe mental impairment, severe mobility, or diseases in the list of serious or rare diseases. A new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits proposes to increase the amount of partial payment for lost income to the amount of minimum wage under the law governing the minimum wage. This will increase the amount from today's €734 per thousand to €24 per month gross. In addition, a 30% supplement is proposed for those parents who care and protect two or more children with special needs at the same time. A resolution on family policy for the period 2018 to 2028, adopted by the National Assembly at the initiative of the former Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač, also provided for an increase in the amount of partial loss of income. The resolution also states that the dynamics of the imposition of measures will depend on budgetary capacity. We are certainly pleased that budgetary resources have been provided to increase the amount of the partial payment for the lost income already foreseen by the family resolution. We only hope that this increase in the amount will become a permanent and long-term measure. With the latest tax exemptions proposed for the richest and fastest indebtedness of the Government, the government is in a state-funded disaster, where pensioners, socially weak families and young people will be paid the highest price again. It is only in 2012 that the second government of John John Janša adopted the infamous Zujf, with the aim of balancing public finances. At that time, the Government of Janez Ivan Janša reduced the parental allowance, the children’s allowances, set the property price for the child’s birth and the allowance for a large family, and stopped the coordination of social transfers with the growth of living costs until the economic growth exceeded 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. Respected and respected, the country has committed itself in its resolution on family policy to creating the conditions for decision-making for the family and achieving a high quality of family life, and to ensuring the protection of children. The purpose of all rights and facilities for families is to enable parents to have quality parenthood and children to have quality childhood. They also help parents to coordinate their family and professional responsibilities. In the future, social democrats will also work to strengthen family policy measures aimed at improving the lives of children and families, especially for families that care for children in need of special care and assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! In Levika we advocate the inclusion of all vulnerable groups and a strong robust and stable social state. As a society, we are worth as much as we are able to help the downtrodden and the weak among us. The present proposal amends the basis for determining the amount of the partial loss of income payment, in a way that the amount is no longer nominally fixed, but is aligned with the height and growth of the gross minimum wage on the outside of the technical term in practice, that means that the parent who breaks the employment relationship and stays at home with the child with severe mental impairment in the development of a severely mobile child or a child with a disease in the list of serious diseases receives about 150 euros more per month. The proposed legal change touches on the important pillars of ensuring social security for the weakest and the area that we have consistently exposed in Levica, for example, the situation of the disabled. The austerity measures that followed the economic crisis decades ago have severely affected the disabled. In the past, the amount of partial payment for lost income has already been legally determined by the amount of the minimum wage, but the amendment with Janšev ZUJF has been frozen and later deleted from the law. Poverty and family. Long-term cost of living currently varies to 613 euros per month, while the poverty risk threshold in 2019 was 703 euros. Caring for a disabled child should go beyond both thresholds in order to give the family at least about a decent life. And the position of women. Women do most of the invisible care work and work in less-paid jobs, so we can be sure that most women are the ones who withdraw from the labour market and take care of the disabled child. Increasing the partial payment for lost income will make women's economic independence slightly better. Taking care of a child with special needs or severe illness is a work that lasts 24 hours a day, every weekend and every holiday, even when a child sleeps, it must be monitored many times, as he may need medication, perhaps even breathing aid or must be turned around during the night, and so on. At one point, this child’s health is generally permanent, not for the better, but for the greater for the worse. By the age of 18, when these children are given the possibility of personal assistance, most of these parents themselves will have to cope with the efforts and concerns of various chronic and psychosomatic diseases, so it is appropriate to help these families immediately. Parents who care for a disabled child are entitled to a child allowance and an allowance for the care of the child, and some other minor benefits, if they leave the labour market fully EUR 588. This is his salary, he does not receive a regression, he has no sick leave or leave, and the basis for calculating his pension is appropriate. With this income and the remaining revenue, it must cover all the costs that we all have, while at the same time all the additional, specific costs of a child with special needs that are few, and at the same time it may also have costs with potential relatives. As a result, we are pleased in Levica that the government coalition has intended to recognize the hardships of children's families with special needs and has proposed present solutions despite the fact that their coalition treaty did not contain the topic. At the meeting of the competent working body, members of the Left also proposed an additional decision calling on the Government to harmonise the amount of the partial payment for lost income with the growth of the minimum wage for family assistants as well. The decision was adopted. However, in response to the State Secretary's comment that he intends to address the problem that we are pointing out to include in the long-awaited Long-Terms Act. In the last two decades, however, the promised law has traditionally served as a convenient excuse for ineffective social care for the weak, even if urgent solutions could be achieved without waiting for smaller sectoral steps. With steps such as this, which will all be shown by the National Assembly unanimously today also by the votes of Members and Members of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Kids are our future. Those who decide for their children and take this responsibility on their shoulders will be the ones most likely to contribute to the future of our society, community and country. This deserves special respect and support from the state. Family policy measures must be sustainable and coordinated in all areas from tax to family benefits, education and education, health care, housing policies and care for older family members. Today we are considering a proposal to amend the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. Alexander Reberšek has long been dealing with the problem of children with special needs, and I am glad that, along with the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, John Brickler the King, he has found a solution that will facilitate the lives of these families who are facing illness in the family. Partly pay for lost income is paid by one of the parents when he leaves the labour market or starts to work shorter hours than full time, due to the care and protection of the child with severe mental impairment, with a severely mobile child or child with severe illness, such as cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, cancer and so on. We propose that the amount of the partial payment for the lost income is no longer fixed in the nominal amount but that it be raised to the gross minimum wage. Under the law in force, the harmonised amount of partial payment for lost income is EUR 751.77 per month. The minimum wage for 2021 is set at a thousand EUR 24.24. The amount of the partial payment will move along with the amount of the minimum wage. Last year, the Ombudsman also proposed to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that this right should be assessed at least in the amount of the minimum wage guaranteed with a view to reducing institutionalisation and abandoning children with special needs. Previous Parental Protection and Family Receipts Act, which was in force until 29. 4. 2014 has already established that the monthly amount of DPID is the minimum wage, so we propose that, in accordance with the Resolution on Family Policy 2018 until 2028, the proposals of the Ombudsman and the calls of various societies and individuals should be reinstated. The work of parents exercising the right to partial payment for lost income is extremely difficult, responsible, physically and psychologically difficult, and it is therefore right for parents to receive at least a minimum wage for this. Parents who exercise the right to DPID by means of the funds they receive are surviving themselves and their minor child, which is possible due to the low amount of DPID is an additional social problem. Taking care of a child with severe illness or severe illness also entails additional costs, due to medical material and various devices, therapies, medicines, travel costs to doctors and hospitals, adjusted diets and so on. The increase in the partial loss of income payment to the minimum wage amount is therefore necessary to improve their material situation. However, for parents who care and care for two children with the most severe disorders, mobility and severe diseases, we suggest that they receive a 30 - percent higher partial compensation for lost income, as they face particularly difficult living conditions and especially high costs. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the change of law, because we are aware that children are our future and that support for them is our best investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after item 4 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION PROCEDURE FOR RECOGNITION OF CLAIMS FOR THE SERIMINATION OF REGULAR INVESTMENTS UNDER THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Cvet Uršič, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and one option to submit the proposal further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u32	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today you have before you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. The proposed text is the fruit of the transposition of European legislation into the national legal order, namely Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the test of proportionality before the adoption of new regulated professions. This Directive was adopted because the European Commission has found that the criteria used by Member States in accessing regulated professions are not sufficiently clear and that disproportionate regulation between Member States for the same profession is also characteristic of the European Union. The European Commission has also found that Member States' poor regulatory decisions distort competition by restricting access to the market and their consequences may also be lost employment opportunities. To remove these obstacles, the European Union has adopted a directive and the text of this Directive is transposed into the law you are considering today. The text you have received for admission is thus due in the majority part to mandatory implementation of European legislation and to the provisions of the European Directive being fully followed. The aim of both the directive and the legislative proposal before you is, as I have already said, to establish a common framework for assessing the proportionality of measures before the change or new regulation of professions. Clear criteria and rules are laid down to prevent disproportionate measures, ensure better regulation of professions and reduce the administrative burden faced by experts, consumers and national administrations. Regulators will from now on have to justify the eligibility of restricting access to regulated professions and, on a case-by-case basis, prepare a proportionality assessment and examine the effects of regulation. Taking into account that the proposed legal text currently exists, i.e. the transposition of the directive into national law, and that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is committed to transposition, we propose that the law be adopted in the National Assembly and that it be possible to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure and then confirmed the procedure by the College. Representatives of the proponents, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council took part in the meeting of the Committee. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. A representative of the candidates presented a proposal for a novel, a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons said that the Commission supported the bill. [[…]] The Commission has no comments on the proposed legal provisions as it is aware of the obligations of each country in the transposition of European directives into national law. It also calls for consideration of possible additional ways to protect the Slovenian labour market from the point of view of the so-called net labour exporter. In the past, the Commission has repeatedly pointed out the need for action in relation to excessive outflows, in particular highly educated and skilled labour in more developed European Union countries. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that in the present case it is questionable whether it is a matter of transposition, of the implementation of the directive, since the entire content of the proposed law summarises the directive, namely that the entire content of the proposed law is represented by the directive in question. It should be pointed out that the text of the legislative proposal is legally formulated in such a way as to prevent the law from being implemented as a matter of fact. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities then briefly presented the issue of regulated professions and said that the effects of deregulation of professions were multiple. In principle, they agree with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service that there is also a better way of transposing the Directive. However, they also decided at the Ministry for such an approach due to delays in the transfer. This is not contrary to the nomotechnic guidelines allowing for the transposition of part of the Directives. They see no difficulty in implementing the agreement itself. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The main objective of the bill before us is to comply with European legislation, in particular with the Directive on the test of proportionality before the adoption of the new regulation of professions. This Directive lays down general rules for carrying out a proportionality assessment before the adoption of legislation or other rules governing access to and exercise of regulated professions. The transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order follows the European Union's objectives of ensuring greater clarity, objectivity, transparency and comparability of the regulation of access to and management of professions. More simply, the bill seeks to remove unnecessary administrative burdens and simplify the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, which would enable more effective implementation of the regulation of professions. The proposal for a law of other amendments does not, but the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has highlighted an important aspect, which I must stress myself. The SPS notes that in this case it is questionable whether it is at all a transposition of the directive, since the entire content of the bill summarises the directive, in a way that the entire content of the bill is the subject of the directive (copy-paste). The text of the proposal is also too vague and will not be implemented as such. A questionable transfer is also the solutions already regulated in other legal acts in the Slovenian legal order. In the SAB Group, we believe that such comments by the ZPS should certainly be taken into account and taken seriously. We must be aware that in the Republic of Slovenia a number of different bodies are responsible for conducting procedures relating to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. It is therefore particularly important to provide a basis for the best possible implementation of the legal provisions. In the SAB, we would certainly like the proposed solutions to help alleviate unnecessary burdens and facilitate the implementation of legislation, but with such comments, we are really afraid that the proposed simplifications will not be possible. Therefore, in the SAB Group we simply cannot support such a proposal, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The regulated professions shall be those for which special conditions are laid down in respect of special professional qualifications laid down by laws or regulations. Currently, in EU Member States, more than 5 000 500 are reported by Member States to the European Set of regulated professions. There are significant differences between countries, with Lithuania notifying only 77 and Hungary notifying 502 regulated professions. There are currently 220 in Slovenia. In recent years, the Republic of Slovenia has often received recommendations for deregulation or reduction in the number of regulated professions that have been above the EU average in the past. Slovenia's 2019 report specifically emphasises that regulatory constraints in key professions and administrative burdens are still seen as obstacles to investment and are one of the most problematic factors in operating in Slovenia. The European Commission notes that job regulation affects 22% of the workforce. However, since European legislation does not have harmonised rules on access to or exercise of a profession, each Member State has the right to decide which professions it will regulate and how, except for a few exceptions in areas such as transport, aviation or insurance. The fact is that the regulation of a profession must be based on public interest, with elements of public health, public safety or public order and elements of public interest based on the case law of the EU court. The basic objective of the amendments under consideration and the addition of the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions is to transpose European legislation into our legal order. The main objective of content in accordance with the European Directive, which speaks of a proportionality test prior to the adoption of the new regulation of professions, is to ensure greater clarity, objectivity, transparency and comparability of access to regulated professions and the performance of certain tasks. The law thus submitted provides for the obligation to weigh the proportionality of the reasons for the regulation of a profession and lays down uniform criteria for assessing proportionality. Any new or changes in the regulation of professions will have to be carefully examined in each case, with the assessment or proportionality test supported by evidence of justification. This is supposed to help prevent further burden or fragmentation of the internal market, increase labour market flexibility and labour mobility, improve the competitiveness of entrepreneurship, reduce administrative burdens. Even after the introduction of regulation for a specific area, the proposers will remain committed to monitoring their compliance with the principle of proportionality, taking into account the development of an individual area. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposed legal innovation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u40	Thank you for saying the oldest vice president. The law transposes European Union legislation into the national legal order, which is the Directive on the test of proportionality before the adoption of the new regulation of professions. Case studies show a positive link between a greater service initiative, competition and quality. The removal of barriers in highly regulated professions such as doctors, doctors, pharmacists would have a beneficial impact on the added value of a particular sector and employment. In the past, the Republic of Slovenia has received many recommendations to reduce the number of regulated professions, which we currently have about 220, as regulatory constraints and administrative burdens are still perceived as obstacles to investment and a problematic business factor. The reasons for imposing certain restrictions on access to regulatory professions, their management must be justified by the public interest recognised by the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Among others, consumer protection, more anti-fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, protection and preservation of national historical and artistic heritage are important elements of public interest. The preparation of a preliminary assessment of the proportionality of the measures shall be made on the basis of a European law which prevents disproportionate measures that would result in additional regulatory and administrative burdens. The positive effects of the adoption of the law will be demonstrated in the areas of public administration, economy and social affairs. The fact is that regulation of professions also has indirect effects has competitiveness, entrepreneurship, the labour market and employment, mobility, labour force and cross-border services. It is also relevant that, in the case of restricted access to or exercise of regulated professions under disproportionate conditions, experts be provided with judicial protection. In addition, it must be ensured that each natural or legal person has the right to an effective remedy against restrictions on the freedom to choose a shelf, to establish or to provide services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u42	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. This is the transposition of the EU Directive or the harmonisation of European legislation, i.e. Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the test of proportionality before the adoption of the new regulation of professions. By transposing this Directive, we want to ensure that the public as much as possible, transparency, objectivity and comparability of the regulation of access to occupations are ensured. Solutions to the bill are proposed with a view to harmonising EU legislation for national legislation. The proposer of amendments to laws or regulations restricting access to or exercise of a regulated profession will have to draw up a declaration on the assessment of the conditions that will allow the assessment of compliance with the principle of proportionality and provide justification for the eligibility of the restriction. The criteria to be included in the declaration in the preparation of a proposal for amendments to the law or other regulations restricting access to or performance of a regulated profession shall be laid down by law. The EU Directive has been adopted to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of creating economic growth, new jobs, ensuring the free movement of experts, improving the environment for businesses and offering consumer choice. Therefore, as I have already said in the introduction, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the conduct of regulated professions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u44	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Government amendment to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions provides for solutions to be transposed into the national legal order of the European Directive of 2018. The transfer should ensure greater clarity, objectivity, transparency and comparability of the regulation of access to and occupations by introducing uniform proportionality assessment criteria in order to avoid further burden and fragmentation of the internal market. As a key objective, the text of the bill states: “Prevention of the adoption of disproportionate measures that would result in regulatory and administrative burdens”. The legislative and legal service has given a comprehensive opinion on the proposal for a law. Let me point out just a few comments: "It is questionable whether this is about transposition, the implementation of the directive, because the entire content of the bill summarises the directive in such a way that the entire content of the bill is a directive in question." Next: "The nature of the directives and the nature of the law are different. The text of the proposal is legally drawn up in such a way that the law cannot be implemented as a matter of law." And "the question whether the content of the directive can be regulated in law at all". However, as well as many other comments, the parent body coalition has not tabled any amendments to try to take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and amend the law. We also did not get an answer to the question at the Labour Committee's meeting why such a lack of legal material is prepared, which in practice will not be implemented. There's nothing left to chance in the government of Janez Janša. Things are always happening for the purpose, so we are asked what the Government wants to achieve by adopting such a law. Because of the above, Members and Members of the LMS will not support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the law is to transpose the European Directive on the attempt at proportionality during the adoption of the new regulation of professions into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive lays down general rules for the mandatory implementation of the assessment of the suitability of the regulation of each profession before the adoption of a law governing access to regulated professions and their way of carrying out them. The transposition of the Directive follows the European Union's objectives of ensuring the free movement of professionals in regulated professions in the EU, improving the conditions for businesses and consumer services. The procedure for assessing the proportionality of design in such a way as to allow for the exchange of good practices in regulated professions, thereby preventing excessive and disproportionate regulation of professions, which could make it difficult to freely access individual regulated professions in each Member State and consequently lead to less quality consumer services. Respected and respected, the Social Democrats are aware of the responsibility of membership in the European Union, which obliges the Republic of Slovenia to transpose the European Directive into national law. Although it was necessary to point out that the proposed way of transposition of the directive was problematic, the proposed amendment to the law constituted a literal copy of the Directive into Slovenian law. The only difference between the directive and the proposed amendment is that certain terms are replaced and a different order of articles used. Such a way of literally transposing the Directive into national law is particularly problematic because the purpose of the Directive is completely different from that of the law. The Directive is intended for EU Member States and contains the objectives and programming standards that Member States have yet to incorporate in their national legislation with appropriate legal rules. However, the law regulates the rights and duties of natural or legal persons located in the territory of a particular country. Problems may arise mainly in the implementation of the law, as the literal transposition of the Directive into Slovenian law also introduces European programming standards that are insufficiently clear and specific. Social Democrats, for this reason, we will not oppose the amendment, because we believe that the ruling coalition must take responsibility for the normatively correct and appropriate transposition of the European Directive, by which the Republic of Slovenia will fulfil its obligations as a Member State to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The European Directive on the proportionality test shall be transposed into the Slovenian legal order before the new regulation of professions is adopted. Proposers of amendments to laws or regulations restricting access to or exercise of a regulated profession will have to carry out a preliminary proportionality assessment and make a declaration on the assessment of conditions limiting access to or performance of a regulated profession. We are talking about a regulated profession where someone can only carry out it with the specific education required for this profession, perform special examinations such as the state exam or is registered in a professional association. If his profession is regulated in the EU country he wants to pursue, he may have to gain recognition of his professional qualifications in that country. The restriction of access to or exercise of regulated professions must be justified by public interest. This is defined as public order, public safety and public health or their important elements. This law will not apply to professions regulated or regulated by sectoral European legislation, such as professional drivers, statutory auditors, seafarers, insurance agents and so on. A term of professional title shall be introduced which means the regulation of a profession in which the applicable title in professional activities is subject to special professional qualifications and where penalties are imposed for the improper use of that title. Detained activities shall constitute a form of professional regulation where access to professional activity is reserved for persons carrying out regulated professions with special professional qualifications, including cases where the activity is carried out in other regulated professions. In the context of the European Semester, which monitors the success of the Single Market, Slovenia has often received recommendations over the past years for deregulation or reduction of the number of regulated professions above the average of the European Union. The 2019 report specifically emphasises that regulatory constraints in professions and administrative burdens are still perceived as barriers to investment and are seen as one of the most problematic factors in operating in Slovenia. There are currently 220 regulated professions in Slovenia. Poor regulatory decisions distort competition by restricting market access and can result in a large number of lost employment opportunities, higher consumer prices and barriers to free movement. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we will support changes in the law. The social market economy needs a strong framework with clear rules and an effective country will make sure of that. The regulatory framework shall only be cut to the level necessary to ensure fair management. The State must be present only where regulation is strictly necessary, where self-regulation and self-responsibility are ineffective. We are strongly opposed to excessive regulation and bureaucratic hairbrushing, which has a desire for comprehensive control of authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the final provision have been tabled. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after item 4 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on covert grave wars and the burial of victims, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Andrej Couch, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u50	Dear President, honourable Members, a nice greeting! You have before you a proposal for a law that will allow the transfer of the responsibility of the protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Ministry of Defence. On 4 March this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia laid down the text of the draft law and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption following a reduced procedure, as it is a matter of less difficult amendments. The Ministry of Defence notified us last autumn, in 2020, of the intention of establishing a new body in the composition of the Ministry of Defence, namely the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage. In its framework, the establishment of three internal organisational units at the sector level is planned for the performance of the tasks. The sector responsible for the war graves will also be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. To this end, the Ministry of Defence has called on us to adopt amendments to the law, which will transfer the law to the Ministry of Defence. There was no public participation in the drafting of the draft regulation, since it is a regulation governing the internal organisation of ministries as authorities of the state administration. The key objective pursued by the bill is therefore to transfer the work area of the protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Ministry of Defence. The bill thus allows the transfer of the powers of protection of hidden military graves, and of course we add that the powers of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves do not change with this bill. The Commission continues to conduct activities in the process of detecting hidden war graves. However, the MOR will carry out all professional, technical and administrative tasks for the Commission and will provide funds for its work. The draft law also amends the deadline for the preparation and adoption of the annual work programme of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issues of hidden graves. The amendment is proposed because the implementation of the work programme of the Commission is not yet completed by 31 October of the current year. On this basis, work for the current year may also be included in the work programme, which for any reason has not been carried out in the previous year. The bill also stipulates that the already appointed Commission of the Government to resolve the issues of hidden graves shall continue its work until the appointment of a new commission to be appointed by the Government within one year of the entry into force of this Act. In the Government, we expect that with the proposed amendment of legislation, we will also allow the Ministry of Defence or the newly established Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage to provide an integrated service for the area of military graves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u52	Your Honor! The Committee on the Economy, held at its 14th meeting, 5. 2021, as a working mother body, considered the proposal for a law amending the law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 97th session, 15. 3. 2021 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was presented with the following material, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. Qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the draft law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the draft law allows the transfer of the powers of protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage as a body of the Ministry of Defence. He stressed that the powers of the commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to resolve the issues of hidden graves, did not change. The proposed law also provides that the Commission shall continue its work until the appointment of a new commission to be appointed by the Government within one year of the entry into force of this law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in the supplementary explanation that the Legal and Legislative Service has no comments to the proposal. In the debate, some members of the Committee supported the proposed solution, stressing that it is most important that the work of the Commission continue, that it is also expressed the view that it is substantive to the victims of war, so it is appropriate that this topic be dealt with in a comprehensive manner within the Ministry of Defence. Some discussers opposed the proposed solution to the transfer of powers because they considered that the reasons for the transfer of competence was not technical or realistic, but ideological. The view was also expressed that it was unnecessary to open up the contents of the past, which further contributed to the controversy between people. The human resources and financial implications of the proposed solutions were also raised. The Secretary of State explained that there will be no change in staff at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and the financial resources for this area are provided and will be transferred to the Ministry of Defence. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. The Committee on the Economy, as a parent of the labour force, has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and the National Assembly proposes that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The protection of military graves and the protection of hidden war graves are regulated in the Republic of Slovenia by two laws, namely the War Cemetery Act and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. Both are within the competence of the State, specifically the Ministry responsible for burial and funeral activities, which are economic activities, namely the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Until the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the protection of all military graves, both military graves and the graves of war victims, was carried out by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The proposal to supplement the law allows the transfer of the powers of protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage, as a body of the Ministry of Defence. Simplification – the matter is the same, only to be transferred to the jurisdiction of the third ministry now. The purpose of the novel Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims is to regulate, in accordance with international humanitarian law, the principles and rules on the handling of the dead set out in the Geneva Convention and the complementary protocols on the protection of victims of international armed conflict, issues and procedures such as the detection of hidden war graves, their marking, their entry into the register, and the final and dignified burial of all victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is often stressed that the biggest problem in the public sector or in the public administration is the lack of organisation and inefficiency of individual services within the system. In an exposed case, we can see how certain powers are imposed on the wrong authorities, which have nothing in common with matter, or have little in common. It is, however, that open cases are dealt with by institutions, where these matters are judged by the nature of their affairs. History is not just a teacher of life, it is also a light of truth, a life of memory, a Witness of times, and a bearer of antiquity. The mission of history is to revive the limits of ignorance. Everyone has a right to ignorance. But it's a question of decency if it's publicized. However, ignorance, of course, must not be the basis for decision-making or public determination. A man without a wide range of historical explanations, views and resources becomes susceptible to a single story, usually the one imposed on him by authority. Facing history is the first condition for a confident nation. But let's be careful, a confident nation is not the same as a self-sufficient nation. Self - interest policy in a collective celebrates only its own achievements, while the ethics of self - confidence allows us to think about our own mistakes. Thus, the historical truth is similar to clouds whose shape can be seen only from a distance. History doesn't know the last word. In the DeSUS Group, we share the belief that a fundamental civilisation principle must be followed that every human being has the right to a decent burial, to a grave and to a memory, so we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u56	A nice greeting to all present in the Chamber, especially to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State and, of course, the Vice-President of the National Assembly! In most countries around the world, war graves are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, and so is the case. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is certainly not suitable for this area, so the transfer of powers to the Ministry of Defence is a proper step, so it should have been regulated long ago. The war of the cemetery and the victims of wars are part of the history of the nation, and it is right that, regardless of which side of the war, the national past is remembered. It also makes sense that the Ministry of Defence is responsible for this, because it is the victims of the war and not the classical graves. A complete and dignified burial of all victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is something that should be self-evident in a modern country. The fact that everyone has the right to a decent burial, to a grave and to a memory, is not only a basic civilization principle, but also part of the historical heritage of the nation. In the Slovenian National Party, we also welcome the establishment of a new body to take care of the military heritage. Maintaining a military heritage helps us to understand social values and traditions and also unites the nation. We also very much welcome the preservation and management of military history items in the framework of museum activities. We are, of course, skeptical in the Slovenian National Party about the potential ideological colour of this bill. We do not want to see an ideological magnification of certain events or historical bias that would further divide the Slovenian people. Therefore, in the future, we will pay attention to ideological topics and be extremely critical if certain sensitive topics are to be opened in the enforcement of the law. We Slovenians must be proud of our history. We must also be proud of our past in times of war, and we must not allow ideological divisions to tear our own people apart. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the Law on Amendments to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. However, as I mentioned earlier, we will closely monitor that there will be no ideological manipulation of history in implementation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franc Rosec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. The protection of military graves and the protection of hidden war graves are regulated in the Republic of Slovenia by the War Cemetery Act and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. To this end, in 2005 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appointed the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issues of hidden graves. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is in the phase of planning and establishing a new body in the composition of the Ministry of Defence called the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage. The administration will be divided internally into three sectors whose tasks will be: the care of war graves, cemeteries and cemeteries, the distribution of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest of societies, associations or other non-governmental organisations, and the recording, collection, storage and other activities of museum activities. The proposed law proposes the transfer of the powers of protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Military Heritage Authority as a body of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also proposed to amend the deadline for the preparation and adoption of the annual work programme of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issues of hidden graves and to continue its work until the appointment of a new commission by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u60	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which will transfer the responsibility to the Ministry of Defence for the protection of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Work areas will also be transferred to war disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence. The Ministry of Defence plans to establish a new body on the transfer of powers, namely the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for military heritage, which will also take over the care of war graves and the establishment of a register of war graves, cemeteryes and graves in Slovenia, as well as of Slovenians abroad. This raises the issue of human resources and financial implications on the budget, as the Government ensures that the impact on public finances will not be, but it is difficult to believe that a new body is being established, which means that a new staff will need to be employed. Furthermore, we are not sure that this movement is really necessary, since we have not found any specific technical improvements in the proposal for delegation of power, nor have we heard any substantive or operational reasons for such an action from government representatives. Despite the concerns expressed that the purpose of establishing an administration for the military heritage will be to satisfy the human rights appetites of this Government, the placement of the area of war graves, disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence within the Ministry of Defence makes sense to us, so in the LMŠ Group we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues1 Amendments to the law that has been dealt with today change the scope of jurisdiction for war graves and a decent burial of victims. The Ministry of Defence will assume responsibility for this area next to the recently adopted amendments to the Law on State Administration. Since the adoption of this law, the Ministry of Field Affairs has changed several times. Initially, this area was included in the work around the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and later this area became the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In order to coordinate the work, a government commission was also set up to address the issues of hidden graves, which, despite all of this and the adoption of this law, will maintain its composition and competence, and the new Commission will be appointed within one year. The legal solutions foresee that the jurisdiction for the area of hidden graves will be transferred to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for military heritage, which is the body of the Ministry of Defence. It is important that this move does not result in human resources changes, that the budgetary resources provided will also be transferred and that a smooth follow-up work is expected within the new resource. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the transfer of substantive powers will not impede further work, which will also take place normally within the Ministry of Defence. However, we also expect to continue to carry out legal tasks in a respectful manner that will not lead to new divisions among people. Social Democrats will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u64	Epidemic, poverty, housing crisis, economic and environmental crisis. This is this moment or in the near future of Slovenia. And what does the government of Janez Janša do? By interesting "buckling" who will dig up the bones of fascists and collaborators from 75 years ago. This is precisely what the bill is intended for today’s consideration. The Ministry of Defence, under the supervision of the NSI Party, is responsible for the protection of hidden graves. The Administration of Military Heritage is more than just a technical service for the protection of military graves. It is designed as an ideological apparatus which will be able to share the status of the organisation in the public interest of various companies, associations and other NGOs, and to intervene in the archival and museum activities. The purpose of handling war graves is thus not to burn to the dead, which is something that everyone can unify. She never was. The warming of history, made by the far right, is a dual ideologically interesting agenda. If we start with the first – a review of history under the auspices of the SDS, NSI and friends would re-write textbooks, as is daily politics, with a bunch of lies and lies. But why would anyone feel obliged to do so for a period of generations that is not even between us anymore and to lose energy so urgently to solve the problems that here and now plague people. Answer – to excuse his own “wannabe” fascism. The rehabilitation of historical fascism and collaboration is not meant for our ancestors, but for our present. The extreme right invented historical injustices, transformed them into its mythology and imposed them on the whole society, so and exclusively to legitimize itself and its wet dreams after total control of people. The back of the same coin is the demonisation of historical socialism and labour movements and the denial of its unfavorable success in the advancement of emancipation and humanity. Again, it is not about digging through history, but about the political effects of the present, to protect Slovenian peripheral capitalism and the incompetent capitalist class from the ideas of socialism, which can lead the working majority of the population to a better life. Yes, only eco-democratic socialism can save 800,000 Slovenian workers from parasites, self-called “businessmen” and managers who even bathe in luxury in an epidemic, in a labor account of course. By forceling employees into the pens p.-is and on minimum wages on one hand, and by sucking state subsidies and tax exemptions on the other hand. And where better to start by brainwashing people not to be exploited by financial aristocrats and industrial barons, but to blame themselves for their own hardships, as well as spitting, lies and fabricating history. The second reason is interesting. The extreme right in institutions wants to translate its power into strengthening the far right outside institutions. Just as they did with the information money that they took from the serious media and devoted to illiterate trolls in Novi24, Democracy, the Honesty Institute and elsewhere, they would also do with archival and museum activities, that is to say redirecting the resources of their satellites. All these are the reasons why we will vote against this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Černigoj will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The protection of military graves and the protection of hidden war graves are regulated in Slovenia by two laws, the War Cemetery Act and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which was adopted in the 7th Congress on the initiative and with the first signed by the then Member and President of New Slovenia, Ljudmilo Novak. At that time, an important step forward was taken in regulating this painful area of ours, as well as in the work of foreign history. Every man deserves a decent burial. Every man deserves a grave and a memory. This is one of the fundamental elements of the principle of respect for human dignity, which is also a key principle of the Christian Democrats. But the work did not end with the adoption of the law, but only then did it start well. The current law provides in Article 3 that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is responsible for the protection of hidden military graves. In accordance with the legislation, the Government appointed a Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the issue of hidden graves. The work of the Commission is difficult, and the Commission nevertheless does its work well, while respecting the principle of pieta to the deceased and their relatives. The Department of Military Heritage of the Republic of Slovenia will carry out, inter alia, the tasks of caring for war graves, burial sites and burial sites. The establishment of three internal organisational units at the sector level is planned to carry out the tasks of the administration. The sector responsible for the war graves will be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of both laws and other tasks related to war graves, burial sites and cemeteries. He will be responsible for the establishment of a register of war graves, cemeteryes and graves in Slovenia and Slovenia abroad. The sector will develop and implement uniform professional standards for the exploration and management of war graves, graves and burial sites. In cooperation with the Institute for Recent History, it will complement the list of victims of World War I and II with data on grave victims. It will coordinate activities with the Ministry of Culture, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia and the High Representatives for Heritage. He will also work with successor countries with war graves, cemeteryes and graves in Slovenia and those where Slovenian war graves, cemetery and cemetery are. However, the proposal for a law is necessary to transfer the safety of hidden military graves from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the administration of military heritage as a body of the Ministry of Defence. Christian Democrats respect the victims and their relatives. We wish that in our country, we will finally once ensure respect for the dignity of all. This law contributes to a more systematic regulation of this issue. In Novi Slovenija we will be supporting unanimously the proposal for a novel of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u68	Your Honor! Under this item of the agenda, we are deciding on a proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which regulates the transfer of legal duties to a new body under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence. At the end of last year, the latter informed the competent Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of the intention to establish a new body, namely the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Military Heritage. This framework will also include the scope of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology agrees with the transfer of legal duties to a new body under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence, which will be responsible for the new implementation of the legal provisions and other tasks related to military graves, burial sites and burial sites. It will be responsible for the establishment of the Register of War Cemetery, Cemetery and Cemetery in Slovenia and Slovenian Cemeteries abroad. In addition, it will develop and implement uniform professional standards for the exploration and management of war graves, graves and burial sites. In cooperation with the Institute for Recent History, the Administration of Military Heritage will complement the list of victims of World War I and World War II with data on grave victims and coordinate activities with the Ministry of Culture, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia and the High Representative for Heritage. The Administration will also establish contacts with those countries that have war graves, cemeteryes and cemeteryes in Slovenia as countries where Slovenian war graves, cemetery and cemetery are recorded in the message. This arrangement also follows the example of some other European countries, and neighbouring Italy regulates the protection of the graves of the victims of war under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence, under which the so-called Honorate Chamber operates, and Germany has regulated the issue of war graves with the Federal Graves Act, which is divided into several ministries. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre we advocate a fair and transparent regulation of the state of war graves, graves and burial sites. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims does not somehow interfere with the principle of existing regulation but merely solves the issue of jurisdiction over this segment. We believe that the proposed regulation will not affect the work of the Commission, as only this work is ongoing. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u69	Thank you very much. He'll be a mag as the last one. Alenka Bratušek presented the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u70	Your Honor! You can't build the future if you live in the past. This is true today when adopting amendments to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries. The only thing you are changing in this law is the transfer of jurisdiction to cover the grave wars and funerals from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Defence or under the auspices of New Slovenia. Let us recall that today's amendment to the law introduced in 2015, and it is with this law that the protection of hidden military graves has come under the responsibility of the economic ministry under the leadership of Mr Zdravko Počvalska. Today, the same ministry with the same minister is transferring powers to another. That is why, respectable and respected, the very question is why this change is necessary. Is it just an ideological subtitle or is there actually a substantive reason for this change? The representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs could not be listed, except to clarify the substantive reasons for the delegation of power. He also could not explain how many new people would be new to the establishment of a new body within the Ministry of Defence and what the financial implications would be for the state budget. But the fact is, there will be consequences. In 2015, I also confirmed the law governing the hidden war graves, because I believe that it is only right that all the dead are buried with dignity and that this chapter is settled once and for all. I'm sad that today you're using our half-time history to divide people into yours and ours. We are all citizens of Slovenia and we all have the right to a beautiful life, to a beautiful future in this country. We who are here have even the responsibility to take our country and our people to a better future. We can't change history, whether you like it or not. And I really want this part of our history to stop being exploited for political purposes once and for all. Use it to divide people into yours and ours and finally start dealing with our future. There are many things that we should discuss today, why there are more and more unemployed people, why the situation in the economy is getting worse every day, why you have not yet drawn up a law that would help the restaurant and tourism that you have been promising for months, why we have a historically high public debt and how and how Slovenia will go forward when the epidemic is over. Dear New Slovenia, as part of the ruling coalition, you are obliged to work for people, for young people, for the future. And you're always turning back. And once again, you can't build a future if you're living in the past. In the SAB Group, we will not support laws that change only because of the needs of one political party, without any substantive and rational need for change.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the proposal for transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I will conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the closing of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 8 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matei Tašner Vatovci. With regard to this bill, the group of 28 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovci requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Dr. Tašner Vatovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The law that we have proposed seeks to be a small step in the field of legislation in the fight against a broad range of inequalities that takes place between men and women in society, as regards menstruation, is quite simple. Sanitary devices, menstrual devices are a matter that is not a matter of luxury, which is not a matter of decision, but is a necessity for the vast majority of women in this country and therefore also a question related to their taxation or their financial weight, if you want. Even after this Coronavirus epidemic, and before that, the social, economic differences between men and women were large and remain so. The same goes for, say, data indicating poverty, which is higher between women than between men. If you look at, say, single parent families, it's almost mostly on the shoulders of women. So this is a question that is multi-layered, the question of society as such, but also, if you want, a fiscal or tax question. Therefore, this bill proposes to introduce a specifically reduced tax rate in 2019, which is 5%, also used for products intended for menstruation, we are talking about hygiene deposits, tampons and menstrual cups. This is not a thing that comes as some kind of lightning from the clear, it is, I will say, a trend in Europe and even the world lately. It is a question of how to address inequalities between men and women as a society, and how to ensure greater accessibility to hygiene devices for women, which are also related to psychological, health and so on. So we have, say, a number of countries at European Union level that have already introduced such a measure. For example, Germany reduced the tax rate from 19% to 7% last year, Italy from 22% to 10%, Poland reduced it to 5%, France to 5.5%, the Czech Republic has already announced a reduction to 10%. Ireland, before becoming a member of the European Union, has introduced a zero tax rate, which is something that everyone should really defend, and so on. In short, since it is not a choice of products, something where users can choose to use or not, it makes sense to lower this tax rate at European Union level by a minimum, that is currently 5%. This is, of course, a small step in this story. In this respect, of course, as a country, we should also consider introducing free distribution of such products in certain public places, in public institutions, such as schools, health homes and so on. This is a measure also known by some countries where users of these products can come to these public places free of charge, it is said, free of charge. This is a matter that goes beyond the question of personal choice, which goes beyond the question of the concept of value added tax. It is a question of equality, and it is also a question of understanding the company's difficulties in this respect. And since I think we have matured as a society, we propose that today, at first reading, this law be adopted. If there are any specific nomotechnical or other concerns, we can correct them or eliminate them at another stage. However, today's vote on this proposal is in particular a reflection of whether as a society we are prepared to overcome any form of inequality.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion. Mag. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u74	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to present the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the Assembly for consideration and adoption on a regular basis and the requirement for a general discussion. The amendment of the Value Added Tax Law proposes the introduction of a specific, lower 5 per cent VAT rate for menstrual hygiene products, of which 22 per cent VAT rate was paid at the time of the submission of the proposal for a VAT law. This is for ladies cartridges for single and multiple use, tampons and similar products, and menstrual cups. The proposed amendment to the law is justified by the fact that these products are not a luxury, but for women part of the essential necessities of life that men do not need. Thus, women have higher basic cost of living each month, which can lead to severe hardship in the event of social threats. The applicant considers that the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for these products would reduce the cost slightly so that the material situation of women would improve slightly. The regulation of the reduction of the VAT rate on menstrual and hygiene products is possible by amending the sub-legislative act regulating the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act already drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which is why the Government of this proposal does not support the law. Menstrual hygiene products are thus already included in the list of hygiene protection products for which, under the Added Value Tax Act, VAT is charged and paid at a lower rate of 9,5 per cent. The amendment of the rules on the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act, which has already entered into force on 3 May 2021, has made the reduction of the VAT rate faster than it could have been with the proposed amendment of the law. With regard to the proposed classification of menstrual hygiene products in the list of supplies of cash services, which are subject to a specific lower rate of 5 per cent, the Government points out that such a solution would constitute an inequality in the burden of similar supplies. It is also intended to meet the basic needs of end-users with a lower rate of 9.5 per cent. As an example, I find food and medicine. In view of the above, the Government recalls, in particular, the constitutional aspect of respect for the principle of equality in tax law, adding that the legislator has a broad field of assessment in the selection of the tax subject and the scope of taxation and in the determination of the tax base, the tax rate of exemptions or the general burden, in so doing, that it must respect equality in the burden which reflects the general principle of equality in tax law and that it cannot abandon these requirements without a reasonable reason. On the basis of the above reasons, the Government does not support this law. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with everything I have said, I propose that you support the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration and that the procedure for this proposal of the law be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Dušan Šiško, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we agree that it is wrong for women to be wrongly taxed in emergency hygiene products. These products are not luxuries, but basic goods of life, so the tax rate of 22 percent is certainly exclusive and unfair. For the gentler sex it is necessary to create an equal environment and therefore it does not need high tax burdens on basic necessities of life. In particular, women living on the threshold of poverty do not need exclusive taxation on the basis of high margins of producers. We agree with the proposers that this area needs to be regulated. However, we are interested in who will control this at least in practice, when VAT fell, the margin increased and the price may have been even higher. In other European countries, too, they are aware that only women have an additional monthly cost, which must be treated differently. The loss of revenue from the State Treasury on the basis of a reduction in tax may only justify an additional benefit for the citizens who benefit from this reduction. If we take the budget deficit to be a good EUR 5 million reduction, this justifies to some extent an additional benefit for the gentler sex. On the one hand, we have €5 million, which is not much for the state treasury, and on the other hand we allow the gentler sex costs for their living goods, but the reduction of the tax from 22% to 5 on the other is an inequality in the burdens of similar products, which is why in the Slovenian National Party we feel that the gentle sex of products that represent the cost must be burdened by them alone. From a tax point of view, a much lower tax rate is much more appropriate, i.e. 9.5%. Women's hygiene products are more similar, for example, medical equipment with a lower level of 9.5% than music, books, paintings and similar products with a level of 5%. In the Slovenian national side, we believe that Slovenians need to be given a lower tax rate of 9.5% for their basic products. Dear colleagues, the esteemed Vice-President, you are the best for today's holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Shisko. Thank you so much for your nice congratulations. We're moving on with our positions. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj has the floor. It will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Slovenia, the system of taxation of supply of goods and services with value added tax was introduced in 1999. Since then, the VAT law has been amended several times, as several EU directives have had to be introduced into Slovenia's legal order. One of the major amendments to the VAT law was in the wake of the severe economic crisis in 2013, when the overall rate of 20 % was temporarily increased as a crisis measure to 22 % and the VAT rate fell from 8,5 % to 9,5 %. Despite the temporaryity of the crisis measure to increase VAT rates, this crisis measure has been extended twice over the coming years by the Law on the Implementation of Budgets in the Republic of Slovenia. Since 2016, the VAT crisis rates have been confirmed as permanent. The 2009 Law introduced a new 5% VAT rate for the supply and library rental of books, newspapers and periodicals on physical electronic media. The proposal seeks to extend the list of supplies of goods and services for which a lower VAT rate is also applicable to women's hygiene products, such as hygiene inserts, daily intakes, hygienic multi-use cartridges and menstrual cups. These products are essential for women and represent a higher basic cost of living, which men do not have at the same time is a higher risk of poverty in women, so the aim of the law to reduce the VAT rate from general to lower is 5% in hygiene products for women, as these products are fixed, monthly costs, not luxuries, but essential supplies. This is the way to reduce the risk of poverty; the bill provides for a reduction in the potential revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's VAT-selected account of EUR 5.2 million at the annual level. Lower VAT rates for women hygiene products are also introduced in other Member States, such as Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, Germany, France, Poland, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. These products are subject to VAT exemption, while for others the VAT rate is different. With us, such a proposal was addressed by the National Assembly years ago, but it did not receive sufficient support for technical reasons. At that time, a broad consensus was established at the committee responsible in the debate in the National Assembly that this could be regulated through the VAT law, which has not yet happened until this year. This year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore joined the solution to this problem. A Regulation supplementing the rules on the implementation of the value added tax law, which entered into force on 3 May this year, introducing a 9.5% tax rate for menstrual cups, hygiene pads, tampons and similar menstrual products, was adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the changes adopted, as we are aware that these products are part of the urgent needs of women, which men do not need and are not a luxury. Also, by buying them, women have higher basic cost of living each month. In addition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of women, both in the family and in society. That is why we will be even more careful not to find themselves in distress in providing essential necessities of life, among which hygiene products for women are certainly among them. With the adoption of the amendment to the Regulation, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has demonstrated compliance to address this problem and consequently reduce the possibility of problems arising in the event of social threats that could lead to severe hardship. In reducing the rate to 9.5% and not 5%, as proposed by the applicant in the proposal under consideration, the government followed the principle of equality in tax law, which should apply the same level of burden for similar goods and services. Otherwise, there will be different treatments of those, which need to be argued and justified reasons to derogate from the rate of taxation. Therefore, since the change in the reduction of the tax rate to 9.5% for hygiene products for women has already been adopted in the rules on the implementation of the value added law which entered into force on 3 May 2021, the objective of reducing the VAT rate from the general to the lower level has also been met. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the continuation of this procedure is irrelevant, which means that we will not support the proposal to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Andrea Zabret. It will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u80	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The new value added tax law seeks to further reduce the VAT rate to 5% for single and multiple use hygiene inputs, tampons and similar products and menstrual cups. On 3 May, however, the rules on the implementation of the VAT law have already been amended, whereby for hygiene deposits, tampons and certain other menstrual hygiene devices the VAT rate is 9 and a half per cent and not more than 22 per cent. The reduction of value added tax is a hard nut, where it is necessary to argue the different treatment of the various subject matter of taxation and to show justifiable reasons why an individual subject of taxation deserves a specific tax treatment. In LMŠ, we believe that the applicant has demonstrated well the legitimate reasons for special tax treatment and we agree with the purpose of the law, but how to achieve the objective is slightly different. We believe that only a further reduction in VAT will in the end not reduce the price for the consumer or consumer, so we are first seeking assistance in the form of subsidising such life-threatening needs, especially for socially disadvantaged citizens and also citizens. However, we would like to point out that such aid in the form of subsidisation would also be expected in the case of protective masks and PCR tests for at least the duration of the epidemic. In contrast to Belgium, Portugal and other countries that have reduced mask taxation and decontamination during the epidemic, Slovenia still insists on a maximum of 22 % of VAT. In Spain, too, the Government initially argued that the European Directive prevents them from reducing value added tax to masks under pressure from groups that pointed out the high cost of consistent use of masks for individuals and families, in particular those with large numbers of children, decided to reduce the value added tax from 21% to 4% at the end of last year, with Brussels providing that no sanctions would be imposed on countries as a result of such moves. Even better, in our view, it would be temporary to subsidise the purchase of protective masks and PCR tests for citizens for the duration of the epidemic. As a result, we will not oppose the proposal of the novel in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! All of us are aware of the reduced rate of this tax applied to vital necessities of life and other services and goods that are necessary for everyday life such as food, medicines, medical supplies and material, municipal services, transport, social housing. It would seem logical for all of the products listed for the reduced tax rate to include menstrual and hygiene devices (inches, tampons, menstrual cups and other devices). Annex 1 is an integral part of the Value Added Tax Act, which provides for, inter alia, the application of a reduced rate of taxation for medicinal products in human and veterinary medicine, birth control products and hygiene products. For most young and adult women, the concept of hygiene products in practice means different types of menstrual and hygienic devices to be purchased in the open market. Although taxed at a reduced rate on very diverse hygiene products, such as vats, gauzes, diapers and dental swabs, this is not in practice used for menstrual hygiene devices. Therefore, all these years women have to pay the full market price charged at the highest tax rate, i.e. 22 % of the value added tax. The typical Slovenian problem is not described, and the European Value Added Tax Directive is equally vague and uses the general term of the hygiene product. Since countries may tax only the services and products listed in that Directive, this has enabled similar movement in other countries, and also elsewhere, and is also taking place, today, initiatives to at least clean the criminal tax treatment of menstrual devices, if not completely eliminated. In other countries, too, they have established and are still applying a higher or lower tax rate only so that for some reasons of menstruation, natural physiological phenomena do not appear to be public speaking or writing, except that the products are clearly defined in the regulations. Respected and respected! Menstruation is not a choice for women, but in those days they must go to work and to school with the same obligations as men. Menstrual and hygiene facilities for women are not a beautiful asset or luxury, they are the only means to enable them to study, work, career, social engagement and also motherhood. For minimum freedom and dignity, for the right to education, to participate in the labour market, to compete with men under more difficult conditions, it pays the full market price and the highest tax. This is unfair and unfair. In particular, taking into account the wage gap between men and women and the fact that in Slovenia the most rapid rate of risk of poverty among women is increasing, while time is running and running. Since the last attempt of legal change, it has been five years since the bill was not supported, since it would have been quicker and more appropriate if the regulation issued by the Minister of Finance had been supplemented, but unfortunately, in the fight for women's rights, the will for solutions had always been extinguished if the pressure had also eased. Therefore, first of all, we are delighted that today’s or this year’s March 8 International Women’s Day has renewed pressure. With the cooperation of several women's organisations and Members, we have once again called on the Minister of Finance to listen to calls by supplementing the VAT rules and, at least, to mitigate the consequences of criminal regulation in some way or in some way. The dialogue, at least this time, produced fruit. In my dialogue with the Minister, I have achieved that menstrual hygiene devices have been subject to a reduced 9.5 rate of value added tax since this May, as is the case with other hygiene products, food and medical devices. The bill before us today was created at the same time with the same aim of applying the permitted reduced rate of tax for products necessary and necessary. In the meantime, Slovenia, with the votes of all Members and Members, has also adopted a second additional reduced value added tax rate of 5%. It is currently in exclusive use for books, newspapers and their electronic versions. The bill therefore proposes that this tax rate should also be applied to menstrual and hygiene aids, citing the unnecessary use of these products for a large part of the population, as well as the fact that the risk of poverty in women is much higher than in men, and all of this is unfortunately true. The financial implications for the budget are estimated at around €5 million per year, but we must also take into account other circumstances; the global pandemic, the threat of democracy and, in particular, the public financial chaos caused by the Government's actions already taken and announced. These constitute a public financial erosion of such dimensions that it could jeopardise the functioning of the State in the coming years. We remind the Social Democrats that we cannot participate in the decommissioning of the tax system, which could be triggered by a general tax reduction hysteria. Therefore, as we and we want to remain responsible, we will require a thorough reflection on the structure and adaptation of Slovenian taxes before further interference with the revenue of the budget. However, the arguments of the applicants have a strong weight. These are products that are essential for half the population, for products that cannot be thrown into the same basket of medicines, because menstruation is not a disease. These are products that women must buy that are already poorer, less paid and even more burdened. This is a fiscal outturn, which is negligible compared to other "consumers" currently in charge. It is a matter of maintaining the pressure on women's rights, otherwise progress is halted. Therefore, this pressure must be maintained and it must be stressed that today, 28 May, we have been celebrating menstrual hygiene day since 2014. In the wake of all this, we believe that this proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Violeta Tomić, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Menstrual poverty is a social and health problem that affects only women. The introduction of a special reduced tax rate for women hygiene products would reduce the total cost of emergency living needs and thus significantly improve the material situation and health of socially disadvantaged women in Slovenia. Menstrual poverty is not only a problem of third-world countries, but it is, unfortunately, also of low-income women in developed countries, including Slovenia, who use toilet paper or newspaper paper or diapers of their children because of financial difficulties instead of hygiene products. Inaccessibility or inadequate devices may cause medical problems in women in the form of urogenital infections such as fungal inflammation, vaginosis or urinary tract infection. Greater financial accessibility of hygiene products for women is thus a necessary measure to achieve gender equality and improve women's reproductive health. Women's hygiene products are not luxury consumption, but a necessary cost that burdens exclusively women. Therefore, there is no reason not to be taxed at a special lower VAT rate. 9.5% of the rate already includes supplies of medical equipment, devices and other means intended for the relief and treatment of disability or disability and intended exclusively for personal use, including their maintenance. Of course, this is also the case for tools that do not represent luxury goods, but are needed by those with a poor health status and are needed for the successful management of certain diseases. The same applies to the supply of medicines and certain other supplies, which are also intended for the functioning of basic consumer life needs, such as food, water and housing, which are part of a social policy that is also subject to a lower tax rate of 9.5%. These devices are at least partially financed from health insurance, whereas women's hygiene products are not. All healthy women up to a certain age have menstruation and therefore need cartridges, tampons, menstrual cups and so on. The costs associated with menstruation should also include underwear, painkillers and the like. According to the 2019 project on income and living conditions, the risk of poverty in Slovenia was as high as 12%, which means that about 243,000 people lived under the poverty risk threshold in Slovenia. In doing so, we must not overlook the fact that it is in women that the risk of poverty is higher than in men. A healthy woman spends an average of about 16,000 800 hygienic cartridges or tampons in her life, amounting to about 20,000 euros. We can imagine that someone who can barely afford basic necessities is significantly reduced by the cost of quality of life or is forced to resolve in a different way, of course, at the expense of his own health. There are also many, more and more long-term unemployed women who do not receive unemployment benefits, as well as those who, due to the tightening of the legislation on the recovery of the aid received or the remuneration from the property, do not receive even financial social assistance. All vulnerable groups are represented by a relatively large purchase of hygiene products, if not a very high cost. The risk of poverty is higher in single-parent families, with 95.47% of all single mothers. The risk of poverty in single-parent families was 24.7% in 2018 and 26.1% in 2019, which means that it increased by 1.4 percentage points in one year. In Levika, we are aware that the reduction in the tax rate does not fully address the problem of menstrual poverty. Since a zero tax rate ban is in force at European Union level by 2022, it is currently possible to reduce to a maximum of 5 per cent. When Britain left the EU, it was able to introduce a zero rate of tax, and we hope that a similar measure will be adopted in Slovenia as of 2022. However, we now propose that, at the same time as the reduction in the tax rate, the gradual introduction of free hygiene facilities in public institutions should begin. Many European Union countries are already implementing such measures to prevent menstrual poverty. Free hygiene supplies are available in schools, colleges, and hospitals. This would also significantly help to break taboos and stigmatise women's reproductive health. Otherwise, we are in a position to ensure, as soon as possible, that women's hygiene products are covered by compulsory health insurance because they are essential products for health care. Compulsory health insurance already provides 100% of health care in the field of family planning, contraception, pregnancy and childbirth. We see no reason why the provision of hygiene products for women would be excluded from this set of services. I find it unacceptable, however, that the representative of the Government, a woman, calls on Members not to support the proposal that would eliminate these injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will be next in line to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In New Slovenia we are pleased to be Minister of Finance, mag. Andrej Šircelj listened and amended the rules on the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act on 12 April this year by applying a reduced VAT rate of 9.5 per cent in the draft law. Therefore, the VAT rate for these products decreased by 12,5 percentage points, or about 57 %. This Regulation entered into force on 3 May this year, i.e. already in force. In our view, the introduction of the regulation has achieved the rational objectives of the law and therefore the new VAT law is not worth supporting. This is how the New Slovenia Group will act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As a last resort, the position of the SAB Group will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u88	Have a nice hello again. And at the outset, let me say, of course, that in the SAB Group we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. The European Union is aware of the standard rules for value added tax, which can be applied differently in EU countries. According to their own assessment, Member States shall set a general VAT rate of not less than 15 %. In addition to the general tax rate, Member States may set a maximum of two different reduced rates for specific types of goods or services listed in the Annex to the Value Added Tax Directive. Slovenia is aware of three different tax rates, 22% overall tax rate, and two reduced tax rates, namely 9.5% and especially 5% tax rate, which we have accepted in the previous Government for the taxation of the book. In the event of the adoption of this law, a specific 5% tax rate would also apply to women's hygiene menstrual devices. The fact is, every woman's monthly menstrual cycle costs about €10, but there are also many women in developed societies who unfortunately cannot afford these products and are using alternative inappropriate substitutes. Many European countries have begun to address the problem of so-called menstrual poverty either by lowering the tax rate or by installing machines in public institutions that enable women to obtain hygiene products free of charge. We also encounter menstrual poverty in Slovenia, which has recently really reduced the rate of menstrual tax from 22% to 9.5%. The government has already rejected the possibility of introducing 5% of the rate in this respect by stressing the importance of the principle of equality, in order to introduce such a special rate only for menstrual hygiene devices to treat equally the various necessary hygiene devices, such as those needed by those with a poor health status, of course, the latter in the proposal for a law that is also before us. We cannot fully agree with the Government on the basis of this. It is a well-known fact that women are still being treated unevenly today, as the advocate of the principle of equality also points out. Compared to men, women receive lower income either from work or from pension. Data on the poverty risk rate for 2019 show that this is at least 2% higher in women. There is no way to ignore the fact that women dominate single - parent families. The risk of poverty was 26% in such a family in 2019. For women facing poverty, any monthly expenditure on menstrual hygiene devices may present a problem that increases their health, menstrual health and health risks. In Slovenia we overcome poverty with various social transfers and assistance. Hygiene for menstruation is one of the basic and essential products and can therefore be used for both regular and exceptional social assistance. But given that today's need for these devices is still a taboo theme in the SAB, we are proposing a simpler solution. Social threats are already justified in special food packages today, so we believe that there are no obstacles to the fact that part of these packages also become menstrual needs for women, so we call on the Government to make such a simple but urgently necessary solution possible tomorrow. In the SAB Group, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration because it is a law that would reduce the basic cost of living for women. If we cannot provide women with immediate equivalency on the income side, it is appropriate to take a step towards equivalency on the cost side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. The first one wanted the word "proposer," Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u90	Thank you again, Vice President. I would like to highlight this argument briefly and, in essence, deny what the Government has pointed out in writing and today, in this oral position, some representatives of coalition parliamentary groups. Now, as far as inequality in burden is concerned, when we talk about the need to look for this general principle of equality in tax law. Look, the government's representative has compared hygiene products with food, or with medicines, it's just a complete problem in perception, what we're talking about. I understand that the Ministry of Finance treats this mainly as some percentages and figures, but the specific situation is significantly different. Food is something that we all need regardless of whether we are male or female, of any other sex, of other skin color, I do not know any other personal circumstances. It's also a cure. I hope that for the most part something that is instantaneous for those with chronic diseases, and so on, is something that is hidden from medical cash and cashiers after most or then with additional insurance so that they do not represent this aid and medicine as well as any additional burden for individuals. But when we talk about menstruation products, it's hygiene products for menstruation, and then it's something that a person doesn't have to decide whether or not to have. It is a matter of necessity, a thing that is part of everyday life for a period in which a woman menstruates and is something for which there is no valid reason why we should not try to achieve the lowest possible tax rate. As I said in the introduction, in Slovenia this tax rate was 5%, which we really introduced for books and other periodical publications in 2019. But now we have this category, why don't we spread it. I think it's also smart and important that these things be written in law, not regulated by the rules. While it is commendable that the government has reduced the rule to 9 1/2 percent, the entry into the law or in the annexes to the law also means a measure of sustainability. No one guarantees that the next government or some other government will at some point want to increase this tax back to 22, let's say, something like that. So that this thing is written in law, I think it makes sense. So I'm here once again, but the argument is that 5% is still meaningful when we talk about gender equality when we talk about eradicating poverty among women. Today, we have heard many times that the risk of poverty in women is higher, even because of such things, even because of this so-called menstrual poverty and so on, it would make sense at the moment it is possible to seek or try to achieve the 5% target. Of course, we would like these products to be taxed with a zero rate and in some respectable time, of course, even available free of charge in the context of possible health insurance in pharmacies and so on. In short, this is a step that would mean actually one of the key steps towards greater gender equality in society. As far as control concerns and the difficulty is concerned, only when VAT cuts increase margins, which is, of course, partly justified. As early as 2016, when we first proposed a similar law announced that there would be monitoring and a similar call came this year when we tabled this law and when the SD Group of Members took the initiative to do something in this area, the Slovenian Consumers' Union announced that if these changes occurred, of course, they would be very careful about the prices, the margins and so that they would not end up being the same, even though the tax had been reduced. So such actions are, of course, useful and also have an effect, but when the Union of Consumers controls similar matters, these margins are usually maintained at the same level. This is clearly the main observation, or main reservation, that the government has in this regard, is the general principle of equality in tax law. I am only responsible to you that the government has, the finance ministry has a legitimate reason to derogate from this general principle, because it is not comparable, it is not the same products as you mentioned and such as those in the 9 1/2 percent product category. From this point of view, I think there should be no reservations. And if the real sentiment is that it is necessary to defend and fight for gender equality, then today you have an opportunity to show it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm going to read all the debaters that are still on the list. The first one gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič, behind her Boštjan Koražija and Mrs Nataša Sukič. So, three. Mrs. Mursich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. First of all, in the introduction, I should like to thank the Minister for Finance for taking a close look at my initiative. I believe that this was also the reason for our discussion, because otherwise this initiative of mine, which I gave to him, could have come at the same time as the proposal for this law, could have reduced the VAT rate for these menstrual hygiene devices to 9 per cent, 9.5 per cent, which is definitely a step forward. Even though I have been asked by a number of women — there is nothing to see in the store. I was also reminded by the Minister in his conversation that I should not expect the prices of menstrual aids to go down. But I still hope that this will happen sooner than later, because the Union of Consumers of Slovenia has announced a list of prices and in short I expect that prices will also have to go down in this area, because it cannot increase the margin by so many percent. So here I have to say thank you again. Nevertheless, I think that, personally, I would like this rate to be nothing, but as we know, we are, we live in the European Union, we need to respect the European acquis and there is the lowest rate that is available and we can use it, that is 5 per cent. Therefore, I must say that I support this proposal for a law passed by the party Left or we are also co-signers. We think it is right that this is one step forward for half of the population in Slovenia. We must be aware that women face an extremely insurmountable situation towards men, and this is one step forward towards inequality. And somehow good practices abroad have shown that, for example, in 2018, Scotland was one of the first countries in the world with its pilot project to provide free hygiene products to all with low incomes. I sincerely hope that we too will ever get this far. Today, it has also been pointed out that the United Kingdom has also provided free medical care in public schools and also in public institutions, I mean sanitary menstrual devices. I would like to do that myself, but I know that this is conditional on costs that would fall on the local community, but look, you have to think wider, and I sincerely hope that things will move in our heads a little bit and that we will take steps forward, because a lot of girls have one too long, using one tampon or a cartridge too long. Absolutely, because a lot of girls, I'm talking about young girls, just can't afford the cost that just comes. And also, I'm going to tell my parents, with such a nuisance, it just says that they need it, but they don't have their own resources. So I really appeal that the state may also consider providing these free menstrual hygiene facilities in these public institutions and schools. Because we need to be aware that women here have no choice, that is certainly what awaits us, however it is. And the girls, when they get their first period, they're placed in an even more difficult position, they feel, I'm gonna say, maybe a little less valuable. And if we had the opportunity to get to this machine and get to it, it would be much easier. I have to say that, although I have spoken with the principals of primary schools, which is to these girls, as long as the first period occurs, or even if they happen to get a menstrual cycle in the school process, to enable them to have social workers in the secretariat, they also have these tools with them and they provide them with them. However, this is not a practice, but it depends on each individual and here they are thanking those professors, teachers, principals who are using it. So I might really suggest that we also think about this, so that we can give everyone some sort of normal education, of course, women a career, because we all want the same kind of behavior in all of this. Although I also understand that today this is not the top topic when we have in fact another problem, the pandemic has left serious consequences for all of us, but it will be one step further and I really also appeal to the Ministry of Finance to connect with the Union of Consumer Friends to really achieve that lower price, because somewhere estimated it is an annual cost for a woman or a girl between €70 and €120, depending on the quality of the device itself. I must say that, too, we have been reminded of this by non-governmental organisations that issue these food products and actually warn us that many families do not have these devices, so they have started putting these hygiene pads into social weak packages. So this is one step further, but this is just for those of the most socially disadvantaged groups, but I believe that some are below the honor, and I believe that those who are already on the clean edge are not going to go looking for help unless someone somehow finds them and somehow helps them. And yes, today is the right day for such a conversation, since I see that there is no great desire for a discussion. In 2014, Menstrual Hygiene Day was mentioned for the first time, and it seems to me that today, as far as this law receives support, I appeal once again to my colleagues and colleagues to support that the bill is suitable for further consideration, a step forward. We started to talk about a very important topic, about equality, there was a lot of this speech in the opinions themselves, and now it is also a step forward to make sure that this inequality is also guaranteed, because women and men are not equal, far away and even after income we are less paid for the same work. That's what we have to worry about. Half the population is actually women, and I really see that the debate behind my back has arisen, but since it is also right, we have to start fighting for our rights, the rights that women have or that women have today have been acquired over the years, and I really appeal to all of us to continue these steps, because we will only work together in the right direction, for which we will be grateful to the next generations, our craftsmen, so that I absolutely support this law. There would be a lot of talk on this subject, but the minister took one step forward, 9.5% of VAT on these menstrual hygiene devices is a positive issue, but of course we want this rate to go down, I don't know how much deficit in the public treasury. So I really appeal once again to support this bill, because today is the right day, today, when we mark menstrual hygiene day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u94	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. See, here in the National Assembly there should indeed be several times in the midst of this debate on gender equality and, as Mrs Member mentioned earlier, it is indeed, in this case and in most other cases, as well as in employment and politics and these things, they are in fact often discriminated against, neglected and unfortunately pushed to the brink or into poverty. And when we talk about poverty, there is also a lot of poverty among these single parents, or between singles and singles, and in fact among these singles and singles, there are 96% of women. And imagine, I know a lot of these mothers' cases, ladies who take care of their children themselves, and if they can, I help them, of course. And when you listen to these stories, it's really not only terrible, but it's imperative that we be the first ones here in the National Assembly to start solving these stories immediately at the legislative level and then everything else goes on. And, of course, I support the law, and I hope you will also support it. And I'm going to have a little fun at the end, and recently someone marked me on the social network, that I'm a bearded woman's rights fighter, and I'm proud to wear that title, and I'm going to keep it, and I'm going to fight for women's rights and always, so thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Natasa Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u96	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Good-bye! Yes, it is an unusual coincidence that today this debate, as the colleague has already mentioned, has been a global day of menstrual hygiene since 2014, whose purpose is to undermine the menstrual taboo and to speak openly about menstruation and to promote awareness of the importance of equal opportunities for adequate hygiene during menstrual periods, as this has an important impact not only on women's equality in society, but also on women's reproductive health, since basic hygiene at the time of menstruation is preventable from inflammation, from fungal diseases that can lead to serious complications and to serious health risks for women. And I think that if ever, we should listen to this today and understand that this rate of taxation should be reduced to the lowest possible extent and a zero rate of taxation imposed in the future. I mean, what's this all about? I have heard earlier that some praise has been given to how rational targets have been achieved with a level of 9.5% VAT. Really? What, though, are rational goals that are respected and respected? What will you say to a poor woman, who lives below the threshold of poverty, or who lives just above the poverty threshold and who has to count down about 10% monthly for hygiene supplies, if he does not want to get sick, to be infected with some kind of fungal disease. What will you say when you are faced with a dilemma or buy a loaf of bread and a litre of milk so that you can eat something and also its children or yet buy those three packages of hygiene cartridges as much as the average consumption. I mean, how can you think like that from the position of well-reserved and well-paid people. And how can men Members deny the right to understand how urgently this rate of taxation must be reduced. It is you who are never in the face of this dilemma because you simply have no menstruation and do not face this problem at all. And the fact is that around the world there is actually a big problem of inaccessibility to both water and adequate sanitary and hygiene facilities in large numbers of the population, it is said, women in this case. But menstrual poverty is not only a problem of the third world or of the underdeveloped countries, the financial accessibility of hygiene products can be a problem for a large number of women in the European Union as well as for us. We know that the risk of poverty among women is much higher than in men. Women are less paid on average for comparable jobs, there is more unemployment, there is greater precarnation, etc. And of course, 95 percent of single - parent families mean a mother with children. And imagine 10 euros a month times 12, about 120 euros a year, that's a big problem for someone who's poor. I know this may be for us Members here with our salaries for change, but it's not for them any change. So I appeal that you simply understand what this is about and that you do not insist on some senseless formulations as rational objectives are achieved with a level of 9.5 VAT absent. For forgive what is perhaps rational for some here has nothing to do with real life. Once again, on the one hand, you have a loaf of bread and a litre of milk on the other hand, and you are a woman, a poor woman, preferably a single mother, who has to decide whether to find herself in these days so that I don't know how to help herself with a newspaper or buy a hygienic cartridge or risk an infection that can develop more seriously into kidney infection and kidney failure and so on or how? We speak of this with respect and respect. I think it's embarrassing that we're going to make savings or taxes on the poverty of women who are forced into this once a month and why on May 28th the world menstrual hygiene day, because the cycle is menstrual for about 28 days and because it lasts about 5 days a month, so this is the day. Please really think about it. I think that today the National Assembly should unitedly support this novel proposal without doubt. If we understand that there is energy poverty, then we understand that menstrual poverty is also a form of other forms of poverty. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Does the Secretary of State want a word? [[No, no, ……]] He doesn't want to. Nor does Mr Tašner Vatovec, then, given that there is no desire after the discussion, there will be no sharing of time. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the votes, that is, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item — Defence of the proposal for a resolution on amendments to the Resolution on the National Programme for the Development of Transport in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. The motion for a resolution was submitted to the assembly for consideration by the Government, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, to further explain the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, distinguished other guests! The motion for a resolution amending and supplementing the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030 essentially covers amendments and additions to the resolution adopted in 2016 in the National Assembly. The main content of the amendments is mainly related to the substantive harmonisation of projects in which changes have taken place in the planning processes during its implementation period and, as a consequence, the current document does not adequately define them at the same time as the current paradigms of gradual changes need to be transformed into a thorough transformation in line with the strategy for sustainable and smart mobility, which supports the achievement of climate objectives by 2030 with a target of 90% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The changes relate to road and rail infrastructure and sustainable mobility. In the field of roads, it was found in the spatial planning and placement process on the basis of professional grounds that certain measures should be adapted as the original planned and adopted baselines were modified by the national programme. Thus, from different perspectives rather than the previously envisaged reconstructions, a new construction was identified as the most appropriate measure in terms of profitability and economy. In some projects, the project manager is also being modified or the project investor is clearly defined. Here we had some dilemmas or ambiguities and it was more detailed here whether the investor Dars or the director. In the light of achieving sustainable objectives and sustainable mobility and thus reducing environmental impacts, investment in the development of rail infrastructure is a top priority. This is also reflected in the motion for a resolution which provides an additional basis for investing and other activities in the field of rapid development of railway infrastructure. The draft national programme, which is under consideration, is linked to projects which are just prior to implementation and cover the necessary changes and additions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I therefore give the floor to Mr Michael Prevc, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is sitting in session 5. 5. 2021 as a parent working body considered the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030 submitted to the national assembly for consideration by the Government. An additional explanation for the motion for a resolution was provided by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, on behalf of the applicant. He pointed out that the main content of the amendments was mainly related to the substantive harmonisation of projects where changes had taken place in the planning processes during the implementation period of the national programme and were consequently not adequately defined in the current document. He pointed out that the changes relate to road and rail infrastructure and sustainable mobility. In the field of roads, inter alia, some projects have identified the implementation of new construction as the most appropriate measure with most of the assessed aspects in the spatial placement procedures instead of the envisaged reconstructions. In addition, it is important to change the implementation of measures in order to ensure that more extensive new construction is planned as toll roads, as budget funding alone does not allow financially demanding investments to be carried out. In the rail sector, investment in regional development needs to be strongly accelerated and infrastructure arrangements should be planned as a priority in the area of sustainable mobility, which will contribute to ensuring conditions for greater use of all forms of sustainable mobility. The Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the motion for a resolution. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supports the motion for a resolution. Overall, support for the motion for a resolution was expressed in the debate, as the transport situation is changing constantly and rapidly and, as a result, it is likely that there will be a further change and complementation of the existing national programme in due course. In this way, MEPs have drawn attention to some projects that should be given to them as soon as possible or as soon as possible. In the field of rail transport, the view was particularly expressed that, in addition to the construction of the second track of Divača-Koper, more ambitions should also be focused on the development of regional railway links, making it possible to travel by train to compete with cars and to transfer as much freight traffic as possible from regional hubs from motorways and state roads to railways. In the field of road transport, inter alia, Ljubljana’s motorway ring, the southern part of the third development axis at Novo mesto-Bela Krajina and road links in Zasavje were exposed. In particular, the fourth development axis was exposed and it was pointed out that this resolution was poorly addressed in 2016 and, contrary to the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. The opinion was expressed that, in view of the transport connectivity and development importance of the fourth development axis, which connects the upper Soča and Cerkljansko to Gorenjska, and through the Idrija-logic arm, with central Slovenia, planning and construction of sections between Cerkni and Hotavia, and between Želen, Idrija and joining the Logatco motorway, the duty and obligation of the State. In this regard, Member Samo Bevk has also tabled an amendment which makes the draft a new resolution. With regard to the fourth development axis project amendment tabled, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Aleš Mihelič explained that a number of actions or projects on individual sections proposed in the amendment were either already implemented or already planned [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Consequently, it considered that the specific classification of the projects in the resolution referred to in the amendment was not necessary and the applicant did not object. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment by Mr Sam Bevek to supplement Annex 1, namely road transport. The Committee then voted on the entire text of the motion for a resolution together and adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Dušan Šiško, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. The motion for a resolution is moving in the right direction, as the amendments to the 5-year-old resolutions are urgently necessary in order to modernise the amendment of the actual situation and needs. A number of infrastructure analyses were needed to monitor the functioning of the system, or where those critical points, problems and problems are in the field, as it is intended to move matters to general actions for concrete activities through preparation and implementation. The situation shows us that things have been suspended for a few years, which we are only extending, even at the expense of long-term procedures. We expected more substantive and more concrete changes in the Slovenian National Party. Some measures may be overly ambitious, more at the first ball, as some beautiful corrections merely establish consistency between document 2016 and document 2021. Changes and additions are linked to road, rail infrastructure and permanent mobility, which has been widely discussed recently. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not think that the objectives of sustainable mobility can be achieved if the railway does not represent a competitive way of road transport with the transport of goods, passengers, where the time component is still very important, but at the same time no one wants to drive on a train that goes, say, up to 50 kilometres per hour. The challenge is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing daily congestion during the tourist season. We have taken a written initiative to the Ministry of Infrastructure to recategorize the withdrawal belts into the vehicle in order to allow them to drive exclusively to trucks and buses with the maximum speed allowed. In road transport are the reasons for the derogations at section Novo mesto east-Maline 1 and 2 stages, the long-term coordination of detailed project solutions with among donors of the long-term process of obtaining environmental consent, the unforeseen progress of land production. Probably involved various NGOs, or civil initiatives, that are intertwined everywhere where it is not necessary. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose first to realize those sections or development axes that are feasible without waiting after 2028 and beyond. It should also work as soon as possible on the third development axis, the central part from Celje to New Town. We also find it critical to have a motorway ring around Ljubljana, which is why the priorities need to develop rail rail rail traffic. There would also be no extra third lane, such as on the lower motorway leg. Investment in the development of regional railways should be accelerated, stations and stations updated. With regard to rail transport projects Zidani Most-Dobova, measures are very relevant to ensure bilateral transport of trains outside the level of access to peron infrastructure and others, since the last section is part of the TNT core network, which is intended for mixed transport. Better transport will be provided in the corridors of all European nuclear networks in the direction of the West-East and at the local level. Slovenia is a small and transit country, so in the Slovenian National Party we believe that these speeds are up to 160 km for passenger transport and up to 100 km for freight traffic are a little hairlifting. For our concepts where the latter will actually be difficult to implement in practice. This is already seen in the construction of a second track that has been going on for many years. If we are to effectively implement measures to move towards sustainable green and smart mobility, appropriate laws will have to be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030 is an important document. It is therefore important to prepare the budget of the Republic of Slovenia where a set of projects is an integral part of the development programme plan with its set of projects in the budget, as it is the contractor and implements these projects by the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the construction of the main and regional road programme in the Republic of Slovenia. In the second part, the resolution is important for Dars, which is responsible for the construction of the highway network in the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution was last amended in 2016. In the DSD, we regret that five years have passed, and this document from 2016 is being revised again. In our view, this is such an important document that it should be updated at least every three years, because the needs are changing very quickly and we are now seeing a great flaw. I will list some important projects that we have not been able to complete entirely in this resolution because of this poppy. Ljubljana's railway hub. The study was produced by the DRI with a German railway company in 2010. Ten years have passed, no noticeable steps are visible to date, and this is not a lack of resources, as we know that the first phase is putting into space. Then here is the next project of highway work Postojna-Yelšane. It is also here that the place is being placed in space, and there was no way in this resolution to provide for appropriate faster steps precisely because of this mannequin. Then there's the highway, part of the road network from Kopra to Dragonje. Nor is this part spatially located and there is no way to take faster steps here, because we know that the needs and burdens here appear to be to a very large extent. Finally, in the SDS, we regret that, in the construction of a second track where we have 4 million surplus materials, the previous government has not prepared appropriate spatial documents so that this higher material will be embedded in the construction of the third pier in Koper, where we would further strengthen maritime transport or as was the planned project for the construction of a child in Isola already in 2007-2008, even here we do not take steps so far and today we are dealing with the problem of where to give four million cubics of surplus material to the construction of tunnels in the second track. If I draw the line. Poor planning, poor strategy, bad thinking, and this cannot be fixed today in this strategy, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we appeal that the resolution is being amended for at least every three years in all subsequent Governments and that it is then possible to follow the needs that change very quickly in the area of transport development and the construction of transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u106	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national transport development programme for the period until 2030 is a comprehensive strategic document that specifies measures for the integrated development of transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to indications of concrete investments that are essential for the implementation of the strategic transport objectives, a key segment of the completed resolution is the evaluation of sustainable mobility measures aimed at implementing international environmental and climate agreements and agreements on carbon neutrality by 2050. As a result, the proposed resolution looks more closely at the development potential of rail infrastructures, especially regional routes, and their indispensable role in establishing rail transport synergies with other forms of sustainable mobility, such as Park and Drive systems, cycling, electricity mobility. In the LMŠ Group, we welcome the proposed addition to the content, since in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recognized and highlighted those forms of mobility that will shape future trends in the field of the 21st century green transport policies, so I will not oppose the motion for a resolution. However, in the LMŠ Group, we are also aware that we must all move together in thinking and understanding that rail transport, cycling and other forms of sustainable mobility in transport must become a primary and not an alternative form of mobility. Without this mental leap, only through which we can radically change our way of life even with unlimited possibilities and capacities to achieve a green transformation would not or will not succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030 was tabled on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice for a legislative procedure and addressed on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The resolution has already been adopted in 2016, but according to the proponents it needs certain changes and additions, mainly in the field of road and rail infrastructure, and sustainable mobility. According to the Ministry, in spatial planning and placement procedures, it was found, on the basis of professional grounds, that certain measures and projects, which were recorded in the resolution already in 2016, need to be adapted and partially amended. The amendments to the resolution are aimed at transforming some of the envisaged reconstructions into new ones, changing some project operators or defining project investors more clearly. The changes are also aimed at achieving the objectives of sustainable mobility, reducing environmental impacts, and increasing the use of different forms of sustainable mobility, while at the same time allowing for faster development of public passenger transport with the proposed changes and additions. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome these changes and additions. Strengthening public passenger transport, following the objectives of climate neutrality, reducing environmental impacts, are solutions or measures that we are also committed to in our group and the party. As a Member, I have also proposed an amendment that eliminates some irregularities in the planning and construction of the fourth development axis, and I am pleased that the amendment to the Infrastructure Committee has also been adopted. With this amendment, the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, for the period until 2030, included the Idrian Logan Leg of the Fourth Development Axis, which runs from Želenjan via Idrija to the Logatco motorway connection. In addition, the new construction of the road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi is particularly exposed to this development axis, and the modernisation of the road from Želen to Logatc. The second amendment to be decided at today's meeting, however, specifies the course of the two arms of the fourth development axis, which are concluded on the A1 and A2 motorways. In this way, like the third development axis, a transverse road link is established between the two European corridors across Slovenia. Thus, at the beginning of the fourth development axis, we add a road link between the area of Bovec and Kobarid, while the end of the church's mountain leg of the fourth development axis is extended from Jeprce to Vodice. As has already been said, the proposed changes, as well as the additions, are necessary for certain projects already under way or just before implementation to be carried out smoothly in order to be able to follow the objectives of enhanced sustainable mobility and to reduce environmental impacts. We will support this motion for a resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for cleaning up. The resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030 contains some good developments. For example, the position on the importance and urgency of investing in the development of regional rail lines and their means sustainable mobility. Whether recognition of road infrastructure in Slovenia is sufficient, but its maintenance is costly and therefore forms of mobility should be encouraged to replace passenger vehicles. The view that space is limited and therefore its use is to plan carefully, with cities exposed to the measure of man and not to the measure of the car, i.e. those that will be particularly friendly to pedestrians and cyclists. These views express a sustainable and environmentally sustainable note and should, of course, be welcomed. It is interesting how different from these declaratory positions are the changes in the annexes themselves which contain these specific projects. Even the most recent positions are followed by the cancellation of the extension of the Ljubljana bypass. We have repeatedly warned about the controversy of this project in Levica, and given that the motion for a resolution removes the measure, we expect that all plans, all studies, all the preparatory works, all the rest of the work related to the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass will be completed in Levica, and that efforts will be geared towards modernising rail and cycling connections, as well as other measures to increase sustainable mobility within the Ljubljana urban region, in particular by shortening access time to key points, which could also be addressed by some of the architectural solutions presented, to mention only the one supported by, for example, the extremely fruitful architect, Mr Matija Suhadolc and other architects on the deepening of the raids, with two payloads, car cages and garages, and a bright overhead salary intended exclusively for urban traffic, bikers and pedestrians. The other amendments in the Annexes, however, mainly extend the deadlines for the completion of certain projects, and once again, the time limits of the measures on railways are substantially increased incomprehensibly. Thus, the completion of the construction of the second track has been on the move for eight years. From 2025 to 2033. Completion of the 7-year upgrade of the mountain line, from 2022 to 2029, construction of the Ljubljana-Esenice parallel track for four years from 2025 to 2029 and completion of the Tivoli arch again for 7 years, from 2021 to 2028. Thus, most of these measures on roads are suspended from 2 to 3 years. For example, building a third development axis in the south and north. Of course, in Levi, we support everything that is sustainable and green, because we are a sustainable and green party and, of course, we want in these resolutions, in particular, guidance or solutions, which will follow these guidelines, and I must admit that I very much agree, although we are not doing this to involve other Members from representing positions, but I fully agree with Mr Ljub Žnidar of the SDS that the resolution should be recast or completed every three years, every three years. I would also like to draw attention to our problem on Ptuj, says the Ptuj bypass, which we expect to be completed as soon as possible, because people who live on this road experience a really extreme situation and also a lot of those people who live on this option or at this test, in fact, on the armo road have also experienced and also suffered and all the other health-related problems are happening to them. And I expect that in this National Assembly, as well as in general, there will be more hearing for this decentralisation or for the local environment where we are mostly coming from. Of course, in Levica we welcome the changes in the theoretical starting points of the resolution, which, of course, go as previously mentioned in the direction of sustainable mobility, but we also miss, as Mr Ljubo Žnidar said earlier, a more consistent transfer of this philosophy into practice, because one theory is another practice and I think it will really be necessary to start managing practice differently from theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u112	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2030, adopted in 2016, concerns the area of road and rail infrastructure and sustainable mobility. In spatial planning and placement procedures, it was established on the basis of professional grounds that certain measures should be adapted as they were originally planned and amended by a resolution. It is therefore a matter of harmonising projects where changes have taken place during the implementation of the resolution and some measures are being amended by their institutions. It is important that more extensive road new construction is planned as toll roads, as budget funding alone does not allow financially demanding investments to be carried out. It is also necessary to ensure federal progress and equal starting points on all sections of the newly planned roads. Therefore, sections of the third development axis in its northern and southern parts, for which so far it has been the carrier of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, are transferred to the company for motorways. In the area of sustainable mobility, priority should be given to planning infrastructure arrangements that will encourage the wider use of all forms of sustainable mobility, strengthen the development of public passenger transport and promote solutions for forms of mobility to replace passenger vehicles and solutions to other forms of mobility. Otherwise, it will not be possible to achieve Slovenia's long-term binding climate change objectives. The motion for amendments to the resolution provides for the prioritisation of those public railway infrastructure projects that are necessary in order to establish the so-called tactical transport. These are mostly Tivolian arches. [[?]] which will enable the connection of the coast and the mountain line, while upgrading the line number 20 at least to Kranj and upgrading the line number 21 to Kamnik. Additional connection from Ljubljana to the airport of Jožet Pučnik and upgrading of the line number 80 to at least Ivančna Gorica or to the New City. Investment in the development of regional lines should also be accelerated, as these, together with the core network, are very important for ensuring the sustainable objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. Priority planning and accelerated accommodation is therefore also important for the establishment of high-speed railways for passenger transport, which are time comparable to road transport and allow for wider regional and international integration of Slovenia. These are in particular the links between Ljubljana and Maribor or Murska Sobota and towards Austria and Hungary and Ljubljana and Koprom and Sežana and further towards Italy. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will certainly support the motion for amendments to the resolution because we are convinced that opportunities need infrastructure. The economy needs roads, people need mobility. Slovenia can take advantage of all its options only with a modern built-up infrastructure that allows the mobility of people, goods and services. Only with such an infrastructure policy, which is seen in the future, will we be able to combine effective solutions and protect our living environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, which puts forward a strategy for a gradual transition to sustainable forms of mobility. The resolution emphasises that more and more ambitious projects for the development of public rail infrastructure are needed in Slovenia. Such projects should be developed in an efficient manner and within a reasonable time frame, and it is therefore necessary to first draw up appropriate legal bases which will form the basis for future planning for the placement and implementation of such projects. The resolution also points out, inter alia, that short travel time and an appropriate timetable are crucial to the user when it decides to choose the route of travel. I'm sure that's true. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we agree with the view that regional routes are a very important segment of the sustainable development of the transport system in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that with the appropriate development of the network of regional railways, we can reduce the environmental impact of transport, so we welcome the intention of the motion for a resolution which, when one of the key objectives points to such an upgrade of the network, will be the railway where the so-called backbone transport network is already established. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the motion for a resolution addresses the real problems and that it is also appropriate to respond to them both by legislating laws and by users to make efforts to use more environmentally friendly forms of mobility, but it is important to stress that, in particular, because of the specific population of our population, sustainable forms of transport in some relations throughout Slovenia are quite ineffective. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we strive to ensure that the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia come from wherever they come from, which makes it possible to travel effectively. As an example of efforts to improve logistics efficiency, we can highlight today's amendment of the coalition, which was prepared on the initiative and efforts of our Member Mojce Žnidarič to implement the main road Ormož-Ptuj as quickly as possible, the section of Ptuj Markovci, which will connect the people of Lower Podravje to the highway network as possible. In our opinion, it is important that projects in the strategic interest of Slovenia are given priority planning and placement plan. Railway projects should primarily respond to the demand of regular users of our transport infrastructure, such as daily migrants, which represent an important share of all Slovenian passengers. The only way to attract their interest in more sustainable modes of transport is to improve the competitiveness of rail links, which must be comparable to road transport after time and cost-effectiveness. Construction of infrastructure that allows people to spend less time on transporting to work and other activities has a direct impact on improving both the economic performance and the quality of life of individuals. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we are convinced that investments in the relevant transport infrastructure as envisaged by the resolution are a fundamental investment in the future of such Slovenia as we wish. On the basis of these facts, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u116	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Updates and updates of documents that are crucial for the quality and continued development of transport in the country, which must also be in step with time, are always not only welcome but also necessary. The resolution under consideration was adopted by the National Assembly in 2016 on the basis of a strategy for the development of transport. If the latter had mainly foreseen general measures, the resolution was a step towards concrete activities. The changes on the table today bring complements in line with current developments in all three main areas, namely on road and rail infrastructure and on sustainable mobility. Further clarifications have also been given regarding all these changes and the addition of individual measures. Much attention is paid to the two areas whose importance has increased again after a long period of neglect in recent years. One of these is the regional rail lines, which were from the point of view of past investments in the background, since it was mainly invested heavily in nuclear transport networks. Now that the latter is better developed, it is time for due attention and appropriate inputs to be devoted also to the development of regional lines. These should be upgraded rapidly so that they can achieve maximum capacity and thus contribute to an increased volume, both passenger and freight. It is too much to repeat that strengthening both is necessary, in terms of sustainable mobility, which I will then also touch. It is in this light that stations and stations are urgently updated and linked to other modes of transport. Railway stations are expected to become a popular place for collecting and spending their free time by means of upgrades and modernisation. That is why I have also called on the Government on several occasions, and I also want it, through the management authorities, to charge the owners and operators of the facilities, to prepare a set of measures and to provide a timetable for the provision of services, appropriate time and people's needs. Becomes and accompanying infrastructure without adequate content and does not attract new passengers. [[Incomprehensible]] A very important place in the resolution is the already mentioned sustainable mobility. In recent years, more attention has been paid to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has led the Ministry of Infrastructure. Alenka Bratušek, Directorate for Sustainable Mobility. The central role belongs to railway infrastructure. This is another segment that has been neglected in the past. Efforts to achieve climate neutrality have changed this. In doing so, the left hand hand hand must play a transport sector and the most important role within it belongs to railways which are the most environmentally friendly and energy-efficient form, both passenger and freight. Without modern public rail infrastructure, which follows trends and is constantly evolving, these objectives of sustainable mobility will be impossible to achieve. It also follows from the update of the resolution that only minor line upgrades are not sufficient to achieve the driving time and frequency targets. Priority should therefore be given to the planning of infrastructure arrangements that will contribute to the provision of conditions, to increase the use of all forms of sustainable mobility and to ensure that public passenger transport is further developed. As a result, forms of mobility replacing passenger cars will become more attractive and more frequently used. Of course, investment in infrastructure alone will not be sufficient. These days, new, two-story passenger trains are coming on our tracks, which were commissioned at the time the Ministry ran the mag. Alenka Bratusek. We regret that this government has not acquired new train compositions [[sign for the end of the debate]] and at the same time we call for this to change as soon as possible. The comfort offered by the new compositions will certainly attract new people to the use of trains. The traffic resolution is not a bad document, so we will support it in the SAB Group. We regret, however, that, as has already been seen, the spirit of the resolutions and laws that have been adopted so far is not being implemented. The latter is also shown by the introduction of an electronic tolling system in free traffic [[sign for the end of the debate]] That's the one that's stalling. In the SAB party, we drew attention to this and called for an urgent meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Board. These days it has been shown that our concerns and concerns have yet to be justified and justified, and the responses of the Ministry's representatives are insufficient and inaccurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The strategy, which for the first time addressed the transport system in the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted by the then Government in 2015. The preparation and adoption of the strategy thus exceeded the practice of partial resolution of individual transport subsystems. However, the resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic is a document which in fact means a transition from the general measures set out in the strategy to concrete activities through preparation and implementation. The resolution was adopted in 2016 by the National Assembly. Already in the adopted resolution 2016, the deadlines, carriers and indicative costs of individual activities or actions and the links between individual actions are laid down. The proposed amendments to the resolution also spell out the reasons why certain constructions of transport infrastructure have stopped or are taking place slower than planned in the past and how they will be implemented in the future. The motion for amendments to the resolution thus touches both road and rail infrastructure and, finally, the areas of permanent mobility. The aim of the development of transport in the Republic of Slovenia is not to invest in itself, but to invest in transport infrastructure, which primarily provides direct effects or direct benefits to users. The motion for amendments to the resolution, in the opinion of the Desus Group, ensures the smooth implementation of existing and upcoming transport infrastructure projects. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the need to accelerate investment in all types of transport infrastructure, and we are therefore particularly pleased that in the new motion for a resolution, instead of reconstructions and certain transport infrastructures, in particular road and rail infrastructure, the envisaged implementation of new ones as the most appropriate measures with most of the assessed aspects, which, in our opinion, is very important for ensuring sustainable development objectives for Slovenia. We can make an important contribution to reducing environmental impacts due to transport through an appropriate network of regional rail lines, which is also foreseen by the amendment of the resolution. We also welcome the priority planning of infrastructure arrangements to increase the use of all forms of sustainable mobility and to strengthen the development of public passenger transport and to promote solutions for new forms of mobility to replace passenger vehicles. In the Desus Group, we believe that without such measures, we will not achieve Slovenia's long-term legally binding objectives in the field of climate commitments, for which I believe, we all strive and support them. The amendments or amendments to the resolution, in the opinion of the Desus Group, only establish consistency between the 2016 document and the actual situation, and we will therefore support the proposal for amendments to the resolution in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the annex and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Annex 1 Road transport and the amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of SMC, SDS and NSI. Does he want to come by? Yeah, I'm gonna start the application because there's more interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word "magic." Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just going to respond to one thing, I'm not going to define anything in particular, but just the importance of reconstruction and new construction. So in the reconstruction of the facility, it means that it can be restored or possibly increased to a certain extent the ability of the existing route. In the new construction, this new spatial placement of the building into space can also mean the extension of the construction because of the complications it creates. That's all I'm warning all these changes. I also know the problem of the fast road between Ormož and Ptvoj and, of course, there is one key meaning or problem where the bridge across the lake will take place, whether it will take place over the dam of Markovci or under the anger of Markovci and, of course, I call here all the participants who influence this to find the necessary solution so that this construction of this urgently needed fast road can begin. We must be aware that traffic along the Podravska highway, from Osjek to Varaždin and then Ormoža, is increasing and that the road has already been loaded with more than 10,000 vehicles a day. Among them are many heavy trucks and that people are deeply hurt, even upset. Some also avoid toll roads across these corridors during the summer season. Therefore, it is also necessary to find a solution in this regard so that people can live normally. That's how much I meant to say in that sense. He would also touch on matters related to the second track, as colleague Žnidar said about the excavated material. Therefore, the material surpluses have been detected and the Regulation has also been amended to allow for the installation of extra material, excavated material into embankments and similar infrastructure facilities. I agree, however, that if one thing were to be more comprehensively planned, we could build something else with these things, such as islands or stretches the coast. At that time, however, it would probably be necessary to assume one responsibility, not to deceive people into replacing the second track with cable devices. This is another matter that needs to be made clear. We must be aware that infrastructure is the one that strengthens our geostrategic position and that it also depends on our many jobs. It is therefore necessary to continue to plan solutions that are possible, that are rational and that are for the benefit of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask everyone you've been reported talking about the content of the amendments, not in general and not in other things. Jani Ivanuša has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I'm going to say I'm only going to stick with this amendment that came from the coalition. Because, in this resolution, we have observed that there is a simple or unwitting error in whether this Ormož-Ptuj road or Markovci-Ptuj is moving after 27, which is replaced by this amendment, it is said that the amendment changes the year of implementation of the Ptuj-Markovci Action Plan, which is said to be the Ptuj Oblast, it is proposed that the deadline be carried out after 25 and not after 27, as stated in the resolution. [[Incomprehensible.]] That period was already provided for in the resolution in force. In view of the activities that take place for several years and in view of the signed agreement on the temporary link between transport after the construction of the Markovci-Ormož compartment, it is necessary to place and build a part of Ptuj-Markovci as soon as possible, thereby linking the main road to the motorway network. We know that I'm talking about the Ormož-Ptuj highway, which is divided into three sections. Now I have mentioned the third section, which then has to be done, after 25 years, not after 27 years, as it was written to say a little at home. Ormož, this highway, which has already been mentioned so many times in this National Assembly in this mandate, thank God for the many Members and Members of Parliament. If I mention this first part, however it binds to this road, it appears here where this road Ormož also has one part, the other part and the third part, it is said in three stages it is composed. The first part is essentially all arranged, but in the second part they appeared, so Gorišnica-Markovci appeared, two problems that are currently present, and these are centuries-old waters. And of course, environmentalists have alerted us to the problem of birds living by the canal. And the first problem is that these hundred-year-old waters are supposed to appear somehow. Of course, we don't know when this hundred-year-old water comes into being, but still, this highway section would be underwater. But the other parts are, we're talking about birds that live in the canal and they've warned us that these birds would somehow crash into cars that would drive around this section. And of course, here are now two studies that need to be arranged as soon as possible, it is said to be put on paper, then to get to the second part of the section of Gorišnica Markovci, to all the necessary documents, is said to be a building permit renewal. But the solutions are, as far as I know, that these centuries-old waters will be regulated by concrete barriers to prevent these centuries-old waters, and the second part, it is said, is another problem, but with birds we all know that there is a fence along each highway, which is protected, where there is a height of two meters, and in this part this height would rise another two meters to the height of four meters and, of course, with a more intertwined network, because then these birds would somehow reach the net and find that they cannot make it through, and that they would somehow fly away from the highway itself. These are some of the two problems that have arisen in this second part, and, of course, they are now waiting, because it was agreed somehow from our information that the construction of this highway will begin in the month of May, the necessary, Ormož-Ptuj, but because of these two problems and the production of these two studies is essentially moving for two months, which I think regardless of the 25-year waiting for this motorway we are still happy if it will really start building in two months. That would be what this is about, that. As for the northern construction, what Mr Reich said, or the northern version of S4S5 [[?]] whether it's yes or no, it's basically about putting it into space. However, we still believe that there is also a possible southern option that is now simply currently being erased from this thinking, so that we are here, I have little to say why it is going on, in fact, only so much that this amendment must, of course, be corrected by this amendment, that things go forward so that this will not go on indefinitely if we want some consistent regional development in our part of Slovenia, Podravje and so on, some economic development and then we need the necessary construction of these roads. So much for me, thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'd ask if you'd get attached, we're in charge of the amendments. The next one has the word Joseph Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. So, the amendment submitted to the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the resolution on the national programme for the development of traffic by SDS, SMC and New Slovenia is actually an amendment that contributes to the construction of the emergency, I say emergency roads, the Ptuj-Ormož railways, also points to this resolution and this amendment, which we are proposing that this Minister of Infrastructure and also this Government are looking for solutions that will contribute to the development of a more equitable development of the regions and, of course, the lower Subregion, which means that the amendment actually changes in the year's resolution, namely the completion of the final stage of the construction of the Ptuj-Armous Oblast. Some of it has already been said by a colleague, the Armenian MP. And of course, it changes so that now the 2025 anniversary will be signed, but earlier it was a written year after 2027, which was why there was also something I would say to fear, panic at our end, because it was said that when the siege took place from Ormož to Markovac, then a great veil would occur on Ptuj. The Minister also asked this question with a question from the Member State, and I must say that we have been grateful to hear the answer that he will not allow this to be built and that, then, this link needs to be completed as soon as possible, and from this title, I must say that all the Avian Ormoic Members, together with Mrs Žnidarič, are also trying to somehow remember this Ptuj-Ormoski Oblast, which is of strategic importance for the development of the Lower Podravja, will also solve the traffic jams that are now happening on Ptuj and that they also make Ptuj's inhabitants live worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Mihelič, colleagues and colleagues! Don't expect me to add anything new to the coalition's amendment. I would only welcome a single performance if I could say so to local Members who know very well the places Markovci, Ormož, Ptuj and allow me to list them our colleague Mojca Žnidarič SMC, our colleague Jože Lenart SDS and our colleague Jani Ivanuš SNS. I really welcome this one-on-one show. Somehow I got an idea, although now everyone knows that this Government this Ministry of Infrastructure is sticking to the slogan “Building Slovenia”. If I am looking at this amendment, this slogan will have to be done and it should be read “Successful building of Slovenia” precisely in this direction this amendment and proposal goes. The time limit for the implementation of the said 2027 to 2025 is proposed after 2025. Mr Vice-President, I know that you will not like it was a bit of a deceiving let me just 20 seconds of colleagues from the SAB, who have now fled and Slovenian public, who already know things that trains do not buy by the Government, but buy trains for God's sake by the Slovenian Railway Company, passenger transport d. o. o., I suggest you call Mrs Director. One more deceiving, and I'm closing it. The contract for the implementation of the e-vinite project was signed yesterday, the works are already running and citizens will be able to buy e-vinte as we promised on 1 December this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As the last one in this circle gets the word only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Let me begin by saying that in the Group of Social Democrats we will also support the amendment of the resolution, both of which are tabled, namely, the first amendment of the Group of Social Democrats and the second amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. With the adoption of the New Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, we will finally get a comprehensive fourth development axis. In view of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure on 5 May, which I have proposed to add to the Idrija logas foot of the fourth development axis, which has been ignored so far and is thus in line with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. In addition, this amendment adds two important projects on this section of the fourth development axis, namely the new construction of the road between Cerkne and Hotavljavi and the modernisation of the road Željan Idrija Godovič Logatec with the construction of railways in lower Idrija, in Hotedršica and, of course, also new access to the highway in Logatec with the construction of the bypass of Gorenje Logatec. With the amendment we have now proposed, the first amendments, we will also somehow determine the beginning and end of the fourth development axis. The fourth development axis begins at the Robič border crossing and goes to Kobarid, and now we add a road link from the area of Bovec to Kobarid, so that the connection between Western Slovenia and Upper Soča with central Slovenia will be complete. And then at the end of this fourth developmental axis on the church's mountain foot, and at Jeprca, where it ends now, we extend the fourth development axis to Vodice and I think it will be a good trip for further projects in the area of the fourth development axis. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment to the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Besides Boštjan Koražija, anyone else would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I see you don't. Mr. Korazzi, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I will just join in, or Mr Horvat has voted me out as a Member coming from Ptuj, from the lower Podravje, but fine, I would be more cooperative, but I would involve you, even though, in view of all of us coming from the periphery, and from this more remote part of Slovenia, it is not easy for us to be left or right or in the middle, because it does not matter because people expect certain solutions and results from us and so on. As far as the carriage is concerned, we have also constantly warned Members here, even with Ptuj, I think that as far as I can remember, this problem needs to be solved as soon as possible because the people who live here, on the Ormo road, on Ptuj or with Puhl. [[?]] ‘that’s really catastrophic, to look lively when it comes to it, I’ll say, a traffic pin or, when all these vehicles arrive at once, and make these ‘rush hour’ stop and in fact, all this, I’ll say, all this problem of this road also affects people’s health, the feeling of people and, of course, the quality of life, from the part of Ptuj where they live. I am pleased that we have also consistently been committed by the bird Members to the fact that this bird carousel, or fast road Ormož-Ptuj, as soon as possible, I will say, and to implement from this, that the infrastructure will make its own or the Minister of Infrastructure as soon as possible. But I'd like to warn you about the amendment. The point was that it had already been originally written that, after 2025 and with this amendment, we are essentially going back to the resolution already in force, on the date of the resolution in force, as it had already been. I would also personally expect in these resolutions, or even more specific dates, when it will begin or even when it will continue to be possible for us not only to remain in the resolutions, because, I will say, from the area from which we are coming, we Members, of this Lower Podravje, but more broadly, in fact what these resolutions do not help us much if they are not then implemented or implemented in practice, what Mr Ljubo Žnidar has already said very well. And we also expect that solutions that will or will be already, will indeed be designed for the good of people, nature, animals, especially the well - being and health of people living in Ptuj and the surrounding area. I will, of course, support the amendment, but I would like to point out that the actual date of 25 has already been, and now with this amendment goes back to that date, but I would like it to be earlier, and I hope that, because of the health and life of people, on Ptuj and around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u131	Thank you very much. He also asked Ljubo Žnidar for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. I would like to tell my colleagues that perhaps Mr Horvat did not deliberately release it because more or less, Slovenia is such a small country that we are somehow all involved in this or that project. A little bit to cheer you up. I was responsible for the Ormož Oblast, with 336 metre viaduct and, of course, if this amendment, which I am pleased to support, will be realized by 2025 in quotation marks, I will also come to build this link between Ptuj and Ormož. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LAW UNDER THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of twelve Members and Members with the first supported mag. Meiro Hot. At its 27th meeting, on 6 May 2021, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u134	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the LMŠ we understand animals as sensitive beings and as our duty to be human beings, it is our duty to treat animals humanely, and most importantly, to raise the civil standards of human - animal relations. Slovenia has not yet made a significant movement in animal protection legislation and is fundamentally lagging behind some European Union countries. The entrenchedness in surviving concepts of animal relations has been demonstrated to us by the competent Commission of the State Council and has again tried to draw us into artificial divisions between the countryside and what is the city. Some state councillors' statements inhibit the strengthening of the social awareness of animal care and protection and fuel irresponsible property that causes suffering and suffering to animals. On the parliamentary committee, we were able to find out what kind of gross and cruel treatment we are still facing in society. The proposed amendment would therefore join the countries where the fact that animals are sensitive beings is the broadest meaning of the word to be applied in legislation. Also due to the positive effects that have been detected in these countries, such as the ban on the binding of dogs on the chain, we were expected earlier by the competent minister of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Animals in the National Assembly. From this point of view, we fully understand the proposer's will to offer solutions that will lead to better treatment of animals, despite the government's proposal for a new law, which is now in the legislative process. The proposed amendments to the Animal Protection Act are welcomed and supported in particular in the work that eliminates euthanasia of healthy animals in shelters, prohibits the binding of dogs on chains, broadens the field of prohibited conduct and tightens sanctions in case of abuse of the law. We also welcome the solutions that bring increased local control of wild cats and the introduction of mandatory cat labelling and their owners' entry into the register. In the LMŠ, we regret that the proposal for a law on the home committee has not been adopted, but we will not depart from the solutions outlined further. In our opinion, the Ministry could give support to the amendment of the proposal and, later, complement the broader and systemic law and upgrade it with measures that we also agree with in the LMŠ. Surely there is still a lot of space and ways to make our society as aware as possible of animal welfare and protection, but we believe that deterrence sanctions and more effective controls also play an important role in the treatment of animals in the food industry. In particular, supervision will need to be given special attention, as for example, the ban on dog tying is only a partial solution that fully applies to the normal size of fenced spaces and dogs. We also need to consider more effective control of the size of dogs and fenced spaces or even more progressive regulation of the rules on the establishment of these. As soon as we are discussing the amendments to the Animal Protection Act in the National Assembly, we must look ahead so that we will not only be a follower country but a leader in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The talk on adequate legal protection of animals, which would at least include Slovenia in the gold environment, if not already among the more advanced European countries, has been largely heard by the competent institutions in the past year. It is so unusual today that we still do not have the appropriate sectoral legislation. The needs of the field would have been more than a word in Parliament, for it would have long needed clear legal provisions, even to raise the awareness of the whole society that we are responsible for animal welfare. Unfortunately, reality is different, and politics is also more concerned with whose, but not with what kind of bill should be supported. With all its kind of success, it seems to me that today's debate in Parliament is itself, and I dare say that the Social Democrats' proposal was an incentive to the competent ministry when, after months of promises, just before we consider our proposal, what is expected of it and what is expected of it is an increasing number of people, societies and civil initiatives. In view of the recent debate on the Home Committee, the Ministry's proposal is also a major reason why the Animal Protection Act proposed by the Social Democrats has not received sufficient support. As an MP, I am not surprised by this kind of behavior in your sense and by ours, but I am saddened, as many who practically daily point out the chaotic state of animal rights, that we cannot at least address the content that speaks of suffering, inhumane treatment of living beings, go beyond politics and focus on the substantive reasons. The declarative commitments, the promise of high-flying words, how we can make progress as a society and develop only as much as we are able to handle the weakest, but there have been many. As always, however, it is stuck in action, so I really hope that, with the proposal of the Animal Protection Act, the Social Democrats have only moved the decision-makers' awareness of not being sufficiently committed. That specific legislative solutions will have to be adopted. Such ones will clearly show where the limits of acceptable and acceptable treatment of animals are. We have therefore prepared a clear set of concrete solutions, combined under one law, which refer to the most acute legislative flaws. The red thread and the main guide of our proposal was and remains the principle of human behavior, the principle of responsible ownership. The law prohibits the killing of animals by way of skin and fur. It prohibits restrictions on the movement of animals and their exposure to inappropriate temperatures and weather conditions. The next ban on chaining dogs is extremely important. In addition, we wrote in the law a solution called “no kill policy”, which means banning the execution of healthy abandoned animals in shelters. In doing so, we place the care of abandoned animals as the responsibility of the State, which must take over part of the financial burdens of local communities, thereby burdening the already overburdened budgets of local communities. It is not right that the burden of caring for abandoned animals lies solely and exclusively with the local community. Then all of you who wish to banalize our legislative proposal if you want to change habits, if you want animals to have more rights than people, if you want to take measures in which no one will dare to put a dog on a leash or anything like that, ask that you stop or stop doing this and ask what the actual and specific law proposes, because such deliberate or unintentional manipulations will only further legitimise animals. The company’s tolerance is thus dangerously reduced to the point of apathy and ignorance of animal suffering. So once again, with the proposed law, we did not take anything from anyone, nor did we want to change the habit of people. However, we wanted our relationship with animals to prove to be a responsible attitude based on publicly defined rights and obligations. Your Honor! Although it grieves us that the animal protection law that we have proposed has not been adopted, we are already predicting today that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will actively cooperate with our solutions, ideas and proposals in the process of adopting and developing the legal matter prepared by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u138	Your Honor, thank you very much. At the age of three, we had a final decision on the table, a law that was still needed to protect animals. In particular, since this law would prohibit the compulsory capping of dogs and cats, it would be prohibited to kill or euthanasia animals for the purpose of obtaining skins and fur, it would be prohibited to deliberately restrict the movement of animals in a way that would cause them harm, suffering and pain, to prohibit the binding of dogs, to prohibit the killing of healthy abandoned animals in shelters, to say as previously mentioned, and it would also be determined that the shelter and the municipality actually fund the care of everyone in half the share, as well as to increase the penalties, because I think it is time is finally that we understand that we share space with or adopt it into ourselves or into our home as we are equally responsible for all other living beings. [[Incomprehensible]] As far as the debate on the committee is concerned is concerned, I will say, the financing of these shelters, and also the saddest thing is that this aspect has been constantly highlighted or will not be possible or possible, instead of dealing with the fact that when we talk about animal shelters, these are animal shelters. It is said that they protect them from offering them a home, at least temporary, and then allowing them or enabling them to do better, and, I will say, fit animals a better life. In this case, I would also like to invite everyone who wants to adopt animals or whatever you want to take care of animals, to go to shelters and help with care and adopt an animal if you can. In Levika, we are also generally seeking ethical treatment of animals, to pursue their welfare consistently and to avoid unnecessary suffering. It seems, as has already been said, that it is a pity that this law did not go to the committee through, even if the coalition MPs did not support it. However, I hope, given that it has been said by the government that it is already preparing a new law or that it should be quite similar to the one proposed. I hope that we will be able to upgrade it further with some new issues, and I hope that we will meet again shortly on the committee with a proposal for a new law and that you will support it, that you will also understand that we are not alone in this world and that we are sharing this space with animals. In the end, I would just say that it is not appropriate for animals to be called or named by term or by the notion that they are beasts. Sadly, many times it is man who proves that such a term or designation would be worthwhile. So be good to animals and be good to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! People are increasingly sensitive when it comes to animal relations. It is true that as a human being, we need to think about our lives and diets, for we have already changed our way of life so much that this changed natural environment is almost a threat to us today. Even if a person does not become more responsible to the natural environment, even if he does not recognize the value of animals, we will already have to change our attitude to creation, a creature that is the broadest concept of our living environment, living and nonliving nature. Surely one part of this creation is also concerned and responsible ownership and responsible treatment of animals, their living conditions, and their welfare. The introduction of this law almost coincides with the introduction of a law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which was also pointed out by the Minister himself at the meeting of the home committee. Thus, the government law will be on our benches in the coming days and will deal more fully with certain areas of animal welfare and the relationship between man and animal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The opposition proposal of the Animal Protection Act, which is before us today, comes as a necessary response to obviously insufficient rules, which is reflected in our daily state-to-animal relations. While we can say that we have made progress as a society in relation to animals, many cases of inappropriate behaviour at weekly level point us to the fact that we are still far from the goal of implementing the principle of human behaviour and responsible ownership. In the SMC, we have demonstrated several times in the past, both through individual actions and efforts on the political floor, that we are advocating greater legal security for animals. In the previous mandate, we have allowed, through the cooperation of the competent ministries, the amendment of the Penal Code has been adopted on the proposal of the Group of Members and Members, by which we have clearly established that cruel treatment, torture and the organisation of animal control is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable and that such acts will also be duly sanctioned, not only as an offence but also as a crime. The bill in question proposes several solutions: a ban on killing animals for the purposes of skin and fur production, a clear definition of the conditions for binding dogs on chains, the labelling of dogs by 8 weeks of age and so on. So the solutions that we support in the SMC and we understand them as necessary with some exceptions. A very similar or almost identical solution also comes from the Government's Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Animals, which regulates even more fully the area of responsible ownership and abandoned animals. In addition, it redefines certain definitions when it comes to dangerous animals, regulates the legal basis for establishing and maintaining a register of pet animals, introduces the need or requirement to acquire basic animal care skills for those who come in contact with them after work and introduces a measure to acquire this knowledge when the owners identify inappropriate behaviour. The government proposal also regulates the advertising and broadcasting of dogs and provides for an article defining the procedures for declaring a dangerous dog. I would like to refer to the beginning of 2020 when a new definition of animals as sensitive beings was established in the National Assembly with the Law of Law. I would like to point out a number of inconsistencies in the definition of animals and the fact that only such a record will not bring about a normative improvement in their situation we have received in the SMC not only a few sharp criticisms from the media and fellow Members of Parliament. In doing so, we are aware that only the definition of animals as sensitive beings in the Real Law Code itself will not bring any improvements to animal welfare, we have advocated a restriction on the possibility of flags and the rubble of domestic animals. The last one was passed a few months ago with a new law on enforcement and insurance. Therefore, once again, our position has been and remains the same, animals are sensitive beings, and this must be enshrined in the Animal Protection Act, which sets out as a cover law the responsibility of people to protect animals, protect their lives, health and welfare. We welcome all efforts to improve the status of animals in the Modern Centre Party Group, but we are particularly committed to a comprehensive regulation of the area, so we will devote our support to the Government's proposal for an animal protection law, which is already pending consideration in the National Assembly. The fact is that the sad stories about the fate of animals are too much and in Slovenia too unfortunately we are not able to reduce the number of fines and decisions to take animals because of inappropriate behaviour. This statistic is a picture of our attitude towards powerless beings that we need to change. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Even if we are not forced to do so by a high penalty. It is high time that we change our relationship with animals, so that the articles of law will not remain just dead letters on paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's parliamentary group, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman, respectable. We are already in the party SAB in March last year without any doubt supporting the amendment of the real-law code in the direction of separation between ordinary objects and animals. The fact is, animals are sensitive creatures. This provision, however, was only the first step towards improving their situation. It was clear at the time that the Animal Protection Act would also need to be amended, which we unanimously support in the SAB. The proposal for the amendment to the Animal Protection Act, which has been tabled by the SD, addresses the most exposed missing parts of the existing legislation. The novelty included the prohibition of euthanasia of healthy abandoned animals. It is essential for us to make legal changes to the welfare of animals, it is very important that we consider it important to prohibit binding on chains, set standards for dogs, mandatory chipping of cats, banning the execution of healthy dogs in shelters, restricting the illegal sale of dogs from undeclared breeding, and strongly support “no kill policy”, which prohibits killing animals for the purposes of skin and fur production. All forms of torture are unacceptable to the SAB and offenders should be punished. In the Parliamentary Joint SAB, we supported the proposal for a law on the home body of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I regret to note, however, that although some Members are not members of the coalition, they are subordinated to the government and have unanimously rejected the proposed law, which is good and which goes in the direction of animal welfare, on the Committee. Since the proposal for a law since the proposal for a law on the working body was not adopted, consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of animals on the working body has been completed. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! We live in a country where people are shaken and angry every time they report cases of animal torture. And that's right. Animals are sensitive beings, whether it's in the letter of the law or not. Pets have become part of the family, whether it's obvious, ridicule or fact. That's how children feel. They feel with them and grow up with them. They're an important part of childhood, almost every single one of us. If beings are capable of empathy for each other, the suffering of animals does not leave us unharmed. We are therefore considering today the proposal for a amendment to the Animal Protection Act tabled by the Group of Members and Members of Parliament in the legislative process. In the context of the consideration of this proposal on the working body, we have heard different views. We were convinced by the argument of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who said that the Government already has its own bill on the agenda, which regulates animal protection more comprehensively and more broadly. We support the ban on tying the dog to the chain as perhaps one of the central points of this bill proposal in the Desus Group. We also know that certain exceptions will be needed on the basis of which dogs can also be tied under certain conditions or under shorter periods of time. The government proposal also introduces a ban on dog tying, which, unlike today's proposal, lays down such exceptions. The government proposal also prohibits the killing of healthy abandoned animals in shelters and the killing of animals for skin or fur production. In addition, the proposal prepared by the Ministry provides for a more precise determination of the traceability of the origin of the dog in order to prevent and limit the trafficking of dogs and illegal trade in dogs. It also introduces provisions on responsible ownership of cats to reduce the number of abandoned cats. The government proposal also touches on the areas of the possession of exotic species of animals, and the possession of these animals is limited to the protection of the animals themselves or to the protection of human beings and the preservation of nature. On this occasion, if we touch on the problems of shelters, most in this area can be done by each individual with responsible ownership or adoption of an abandoned animal. If animals remain in shelters for too long, the issue of covering costs arises. Of course, it is necessary to encourage shelters to put forth effort to find new guardians in addition to the care of abandoned animals. So, when we did not support the proposed amendment to the Animal Protection Act on the committee responsible, we did not say in the Desus Group that improvements were made in the area of the ban on animal torture. There is already a government proposal on our tables, which, as we say, is more comprehensive and broader in this area, and we will, of course, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u148	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's nothing between us that's against animal welfare. Humans bear responsibility for their protection, life and health. It is simply the duty of all, in particular their guardians, local communities and countries. The proposed amendments and additions, which have not obtained sufficient majority on the working body, follow noble objectives that are difficult to challenge. They follow even more animal welfare and protection than is already regulated by the law in force. This is also clear from the existing views of the law, which did not express much opposition to the proposed amendments. The Law on the Committee on Agriculture did not receive a sufficient majority because, in the meantime, it prepared its proposal, similar to today's, and has also tabled the Government's parliamentary procedure. This is supposed to be more comprehensive than today's proposal at certain points. In this part, we do not oppose the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We think it's a better solution for voluntary cat labelling. An urgent labelling obligation would lead to problems in particular in a rural area where there are large wild cats and their owners are unknown. Volunteering cats according to our assessment in nothing fundamentally undermines their welfare and protection. It also makes sense to propose a ban on tying dogs to chains. Most of the remaining solutions are similar to the proposals of today's parliamentary law and we agree with them. Unfortunately, we must also point out that the coalition with the ruling party in charge of the style of fake new social networks has published photographs and records that, by blocking the work of the National Assembly in the past weeks, it has prevented the adoption of the Animal Protection Act, and it has been those who voted against it. Manipulation, deceit, deceit, understanding who is more. In the short term, we will be discussing and deciding on solutions that bring greater welfare and protection to animals, which we welcome in our Group of Members, and despite the fact that the law in question is ending its legislative path today, we express our support to the Non-Aligned Members. Because of the noble drive of the proposer and because of the animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have reached the last point of view, this is what the SNS Group would say would be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Once again, a nice greeting to the audience in the hall! The bill before us, let me say that the law has fallen on the parental committee, otherwise it proposes some reasonable solutions such as mandatory chipping of cats and dogs, banning the execution of animals for fur and leather, banning the binding of dogs on chains and so on. Nevertheless, we believe that there is a need for a comprehensive change in the law, as many areas remain unresolved. First of all, I'd like to mention the legal arrangements for banned and dangerous dogs. It is imperative, therefore, to prohibit the free ownership of dogs of dangerous breeds and to severely restrict the current free ownership of these breeds. These are breeds that, despite their upbringing, can be aggressive and dangerous such as bulter, rottweiler, pitbul terrier, dog, bull mastiffs and the like. While many countries in the world have a legally regulated list of prohibited bands, Slovenia does not have this law and the right list. As an example, I can refer to Austria and Denmark. For example, for Austria, all dogs on the list of dangerous belts are required to be tested in public places, must wear a tip and be on the leash all the time. Denmark prohibits the breeding of these breeds and their blends, they are banned unconditionally, so you must not officially have them. But he forbids 13 bands. This is essential in order to prevent the tragedies we have witnessed in recent times. Next thing you know, dog fights. It's a deliberate, planned animal torture. Dogs live in inappropriate conditions, and they are trained in cruel ways, and then they have to fight each other to the point of death. Things should also be tightened up in this area. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter: the problems of stray dogs. The question arises where they are and how to prevent the tragedy when the herd attacks random passersby. For example, we all know the situation in the Republic of Serbia. Travelling dogs are everywhere we look. The problem is, they're in packs and they can be extremely aggressive and aggressive. The area of slaughter of bovine animals for domestic use should also be regulated. The slaughter of bovine animals and equidae for their own domestic use outside the slaughterhouse is not possible under the current law, which in our view is not appropriate, and farmers have a lot of logistical problems and financial consequences. These are just a few examples, and I could tell them why the changes that are ahead of us are not enough and why it is necessary to change the whole law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 75th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 15.40. (The sitting was suspended at 15.09.) (The sitting resumed at 15.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u152	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The national assembly will vote in the following order: 20, 7, 8, 9, 15, 18, 22 and 23 on the agenda. We are moving to a vote on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: “The National Assembly agrees with the Regulation on co-financing the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 17. 12. 2020.’ We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the context of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Conducting Regulated Occupations in the framework of a Shorter Procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since no amendments to the final provision have been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the previous and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Additional Value Tax Act is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 5. 2021. First, we decide on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors to Annex 1 of road traffic under number 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC, SDS and NSI to Annex 1 Road transport under number 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the working body or amendments adopted at the assembly would not have led to the motion for a resolution being unharmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, it is attesting to the official revised texts of the law on foreign workers and the law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. First of all, we move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Aliens Act.” We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “The official text of the law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners is confirmed.” We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Period of the day, that's a mental-voluntary matter. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the expert board of the Agency for Insurance and Control. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that it appoint a mag as members of the expert board of the Agency for Insurance and Control for a period of 6 years. Andrej Zupančič, Peter Pope and Alexander Wallace. In order to further explain the proposal for appointment, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Maja Hostnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Executive Board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be one of the Agency’s authorities in addition to the Director, and its powers shall be laid down in the Insurance Act. In addition to adopting the rules of its competence and the Agency’s rules of procedure, the Expert Board shall decide on the permitted and agreed matters. The competence of the Section also includes the adoption of the State of Insurance report, the Agency’s annual plan of technical services, the annual report on the Agency’s work and the adoption of tariffs. Under the Insurance Act, members of the Council of Experts appoint the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 6 years. The two members of the expert board of the Agency shall expire on the basis of a term of office of 8. 6. 2021. Since the Agency’s expert council currently counts four members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it also proposes that the appointment of a third member be made up of five members, as the law allows. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint Andrei Zupančič, Peter Papež and Aleksandr Volaš as members of the professional council. Andrej Zupančič is an educated university graduate economist who has been employed at the UN since 2012. Since 2015, he has also been a member of the UN Trade Council and the President of the Senate in the conduct and decision-making of individual cases. Peter Papež is a law master who has gained work experience in one of Slovenia's insurance companies. Aleksander Volas is a financial expert who has gained work experience in the field of tourism, where he worked in the field of finance, accounting and control. Given that the proposed candidates are experts in the field of insurance or finance, their appointment would contribute to the professional performance of the tasks of the Agency's expert board. On the basis of this Government, the RS National Assembly proposes to approve Andre Zupančič, Peter Papež and Alexander Volaš as members of the expert council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Thank you, mag. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to the debate. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing the members of the expert board of the Agency for Insurance and Control for a period of six years. Andrej Zupančič, Peter Pope and Alexander Callas. Their mandate starts to run nine. 6. 2021. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 29. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 29.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of proposals for the election of judicial functions in the judicial seat of District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly proposals for the election of Damjan Šavron and Juret Turk in judicial capacity in the judicial seat of the District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which elects Damjan Šavron as District Court Judge in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. (For the vote was 77.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that elects Jure Turk as the judge of the district court in the working and social court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. (The vote was 76.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the district court in Novi Gorica. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Aleš Batistič for judicial office at the District Court in Novi Gorica. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which the judicial function of the District Court is elected by Aleš Batistič at the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. (The vote was 75.)(against 1.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years from the representatives of consumer representative disability organisations on the proposal of the National Council of Disabled Organizations and Educational Institutions, Dr. Andrej Brodnik, Dr. Dušan Caf, Boštjan Okorn and Blaž Urbanč. Among the various electronic communications experts Mladen Bjelac, Aleksander Bucik, Valerij Grašič, Davorin Kopše, mag. Milos Antichrist, mag. Tomaž Slokar and Dr Yuri Franz Tasič. Their mandate starts at 24. 6. 2021. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We move to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Ivan Kramberger as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, for a period until the end of the term of office of members appointed by a decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia of 14. 12. 2017. In doing so, I inform you that, under Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 84 Members present, with 46 votes against 34. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the term of office of members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of a member was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. On 23 April 2021, Andrej Grah Whatmough presented to the National Assembly a statement of resignation from the post of Member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia as he was appointed Director General of RTV Slovenia. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision establishing that Andrej Grah Whatmough made a withdrawal statement from the seat of the Member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for the start of the mandate of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia by 25. 4. 2021 Therefore, pursuant to the seventh paragraph of Article 26(2) of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia has terminated its mandate as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members present, 73 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the unacceptable political interference in the work of the Police and the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members were present, 81 were voted against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the electoral commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 81 Members present, 71 votes against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering in NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternates of the members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified restriction of 14 rights in the implementation of measures related to the COVID-19 disease epidemic. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and measures by institutions and holders of public functions to combat the spread of the disease of COVID-19 out of 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB, EPA 1882-VIII C. Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the functions and appointment of Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination and function and appointment of the Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. You have submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly by the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, terminates the function of Vice-President Marijan Pojbic as Vice-President and calls him mag. Branislav Rajić. In the Committee on Defence, the Vice-President, Mateja Udovč, is hereby appointed Vice-President, Yuri Leipzig. In the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič is called Vice-President." We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u155	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič. The proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members, with first-signed Daniel Krivec. To present my opinion, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u156	Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Two months have passed since the exit of the Non-Aligned Members from the SMC and the first failed coalition attempt to take over the leadership of the National Assembly. At that time, the ruling coalition did not hide the desire to take control of Parliament's leadership at all costs and to strengthen itself even more in the ideological and party-specific leadership of the country to the extent of the largest coalition party SDS. These attempts have gone from public and private pressure on me to convincing me to resign supported by Bianca's signatures of Members with generous offers of honorary resignation and so on. How important the honour of political opponents is to show their attitude towards their own people, to Members and ministers who hope at least a little to resist the will of the President of the largest coalition party. Yesterday, we saw another case where, due to the unlawful conduct of the President of the Government and the direct attacks on the independence of the judiciary, the Minister of Justice resigned, while the President of her own party did not stand on her side for a moment and tried to justify in every way possible the reason why she was forced to resign. I myself have been responsible for this position of President of the National Assembly, which has been entrusted to me all the time with the knowledge of the importance of the work of the National Assembly for this country. As I mentioned earlier, therefore, when we spoke in the first attempt to resolve, the past period was a varied period not only for the coalition but also for the opposition and, above all, for the post of President of the National Assembly, a conflict that arose in society and which was largely encouraged by the functioning of the coalition, although otherwise agreed, it also moved into our house. Not everything was ideal, but today we are touching one particular issue. We are concerned about the role of the President of the National Assembly in the future. We are also concerned about whether the position of the President of the National Assembly of the spoils of each coalition should be reduced to a number smaller than the majority, or whether the presidency of the National Assembly is a function occupied by a majority at the time of the term of office, which, in accordance with the Constitution and other rules, is then appointed by other officials, Prime Minister, Ministers and so on. However, if the number of coalition members falls below the majority, the question or function is, of course, to assign to the minority coalition or not. We know a number of different practices abroad. I think that there is a practice in place that provides in fact some kind of independence and continuity of the leadership of the National Assembly. Indeed, in our system in particular, it may be that even after the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, the minority coalition will not be able to obtain enough votes to appoint a new one. So today we are touching on an important issue where the President of the National Assembly, this function, can be classified according to our constitutional system. I am convinced that we should follow what is being followed abroad, for example, in Italy, where the coalition, when it lost once the majority or when the president of the National Assembly or their assembly moved to the opposition ranks, where he maintained this function despite the fact that the Berlin coalition of those days wanted to replace it. In short, today we are touching on an important issue. I don't think this is about me personally. It's about where we're going to put this national council in the future. Whether it will be the government's tool or whether it will be the Prime Minister's tool or we will be so self-sufficient that we will decide on it ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The initial explanation was five minutes, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, not six minutes. Let's keep an eye out. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear colleagues from the SDS, please, the hour was five minutes down, so the President of the National Assembly had 5 minutes at his disposal, just as you will have 5 minutes. I don't understand what the problem is. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given to Mrs. Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u158	Dear colleague Zorčič! Colleagues and colleagues! After the first collapse of the coalition initiative to replace the President of the National Assembly, of course, we all looked forward to another attempt together. The laxity of this government after controlling and interfering with the work of the remaining branches of government in Slovenia, which are supposed to act independently and independently, is too great. In doing so, it is totally irrelevant that Comrade Zorčič runs this national assembly professionally and properly. Of course, it does not agree that the highest legislative body in the country would become a silent confirmer of the decision and of the dictatorship of the Prime Minister and his subordinates. In recent weeks we have heard a lot about the parliamentary tradition in Slovenia. Often when the current minority government coalition called on the President of the National Assembly to resign, there were insufficient votes to be resolved. But the parliamentary tradition in Slovenia is based on the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly has always been elected by an absolute majority of all Members. With more than 46 votes, Igor Zorčič, a colleague, was elected. The current minority government coalition, however, has an official 38 members in the National Assembly. So, of course, try the media spins and the calls for a withdrawal. Of course, after a failed attempt to resolve the government defeat, pressure was expected to increase on those Members who were not officially members of the coalition. It's probably not hard to guess what requirements are being made. Either the release of Comrade Zorčič or the early elections. But this fear is far too great, my dear. The desire to continue ruling is too strong to be expected by the government or its president. The leader of the SDS Group mentioned the previous days that they must be counted before the vote. That's right. We will count, and the Slovenian public will count. After today's vote, it will be clear who is a member of the coalition of this President of the Government and who we are in the National Assembly. If the resolution proposal gets 46 votes, we have a new coalition in the National Assembly. And it will be appropriate to regulate the relations between the opposition and the coalition, and thus also to distribute jobs in the working bodies, particularly in those in which most of the opposition has a rule of procedure due to the need to control the government's work. The President of the National Assembly shall be elected or dissolved by at least 46 Members. This is a Slovenian parliamentary tradition and a rule of procedure under which we must act, so Members of the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members of the proposal of the official minority coalition with 38 Members for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly will not be supported. Above all, to help preserve the independence and independence of the legislative branch of power imposed on us by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, presented by President Igor Zorčič through his image, not only in the last two months, but since the first day of his appointment. My colleague Zorčič said the following at the first attempt to resolve himself: "Don't let me burden you for reasons why I stepped out of the coalition party. One of these is that the government ignores the laws we adopt in this house, whether it is the PKP 7, the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency or the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. In short, as president of the National Assembly, I couldn't stand to see it and bear it, and so I pulled some sequences. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , even if that is why I have to leave the presidency of the National Assembly.” End of quote. If Comrade Zorčič is released today because of respect for the principle of the division of power and the rule of law and the rule of law, this will be a poor journey for the image of the well-functioning and advanced parliamentary democracy of the Republic of Slovenia. So let's do it again today. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's beyond reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u160	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, Honourable President, colleague and colleague. Now we are faced with some fact that we have on the wallpaper the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, and this, I must say, is the first time happening in the parliamentary history of this Parliament. So far, the President of the National Assembly has resigned when the situation we are now facing has arisen. This is the first time we have been able to resolve the highest, I would say, a member of the National Assembly, who has not respected the practice of this parliamentary system in some way. The first attempt was unsuccessful, we are aware of that, perhaps some expected Mr Zorčič to become some kind of, I would say, mediator during the coalition, opposition, as an unrelated Member. Unfortunately, however, at least in the coalition he disappointed us a lot with his, I would say, interventions that proved very biased in the direction of cooperation or support only to opposition parties. Perhaps all of us in the National Assembly expect that the highest among us is in some way neutral, but not so prominently put on one side. I must say with this that he has personally disappointed me, too, because I know him as a proper and reasonable man and he does not have my trust, but he does not have the confidence of our Group of Members, so of course we will support his resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President, and happy birthday. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, last week, last month, we can see that this government, this government coalition, power, country, ultimately people see as their own. This is the opposite of what we see in the LMSH and the opposition. We see when you take power to run with the country on behalf of all the people, those who voted you and those who didn't vote you, those who didn't go to the elections, on behalf of everyone responsible. But since this government takes over as its own, it also fears people. And today we can witness great shame when all state institutions are being fenced with fences, the reason is that people are not being attacked. We know what you're doing. These people are these institutions, state. These people are this country, we're just temporarily representing these people. The government, the parliamentarians come and go, the country stays. And the state and state institutions are no one's property, especially not from the government. Today is more of a question of who will defend the country against this government demolition, the decommissioning of the rule of law. If it turns out that 46 Members and Members vote in favour of the discharge of the President of the National Assembly and, of course, elect their President of the National Assembly, then, as has already been said, we have a new coalition in this National Assembly, confirmed, not only by action and conduct, but also by votes and it will be appropriate to distribute seats in working bodies. For example, in the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, there under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and in the law, there must be a majority of the opposition because it controls the authority. No, not that you're calling for a break or a break, because you don't have enough votes because the Victory of Jelinčič has yet to come. The opposition doesn't have enough votes. All this is swindling and what you do, colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, is what I said in the introduction, you take power as your own, and you take this position as President of the National Assembly as your own. If you choose 46 votes, then you will get the President of the National Assembly, whoever it is, but you will also confirm a new coalition. We have heard several times in this National Assembly statements that the coalition must have a president of the National Assembly. Okay, but we know that every coalition, if it wants to have a government and the President of the National Assembly, has to have 46 votes. So, if today there will be 46 votes for the new President of the National Assembly and for the discharge of Mr Zorčič, then we have a new coalition and stop moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Matjaž Han, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u164	Thank you so much for wiping out my counter. Vice President! What Brane is saying right now I could have done a dot and gone home, but not because I have to tell you that in this country there are alarms that have been triggered and caused by a ruling coalition called SDS, SMC, NSI, Desus and SNS. You know, it may not be necessary for a politician to hear or listen to another policy, but this is true for those who believe that it is only in politics that each of his views seems to be the only right and only credible. Nevertheless, this policy, and thank God, still has some legality that probably every mechanism has when it has a switch for the “breath”! and for gas or acceleration and brake. Politics should know where the brake is. I'll tell you where the brake is. This brake is a law we can call it, we can call it the Constitution of this brake, we can call it the Rules of Procedure, if my dear common sense is not sufficient. It came so far that the ruling coalition simply ignores this brake. I will say this with one example, when, because of political objections to people who have left the coalition, you do not in fact recognise their voting rights, but nothing is done to some Members. It came so far that the ruling coalition deals essentially with people who went out of the coalition as well as with apostates and essentially cut them off from key legislative processes. I can tell Dana I know that nervousness is a little bit greater, that Parliament, for this ruling coalition, has become like an arena. The arena with no contents. In fact, but constantly presented that one, two, three Members are wanted, that laws, ideas are voted out, that is a war problem, but for this coalition it means nothing. The coalition acts as if everything is in the best order and as if we have not witnessed the parliamentary crisis and since yesterday neither the government crisis will I be in this place, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, because today it would be good to know that the Members do not speak much because we have not spoken much, because today we should have the word of people who will gather outside these premises and I think that there will be more than 10,000 and it is right for Members and Members to hear them and that we are listening to them in particular. Social [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u165	Dear colleagues from the SDS, or you can rest assured that Mr Han will take his position to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u166	We support the Social Democrats of Igor Zorčič and will not participate in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I am very politely asking from this city all Members to let the representatives of the groups of Members in peace express their position, including you, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Thank you for your respect. Mr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will state the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u168	Thank you, Vice President. Today's vote is the second in a few months to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is not a vote on Igor Zorčič personally, at least we do not see it that way in Levica. is in a way a symbolic vote, a vote on what the National Assembly is. Now that we are hearing that the President of the National Assembly belongs to the coalition, that this is the function that must be under the control of the coalition we have already heard today does not have much justification, but it is true that this coalition represents this country. So he imagines her in the government, where we've seen what complete control is, no, even over coalition parties. That's how they imagine it in court or in court, no, yesterday you could see the de facto opening of a new front with the prosecution and the judiciary wider. And so, of course, they picture the role of the National Assembly. Institutions that, in the image of this coalition or, above all, the SDS, should be obedient, subordinate and act only as a very well-oiled voting machine for the coalition. A coalition that currently holds 38 votes on paper. We have seen many times in recent weeks that this national assembly no longer has a convincing majority, not on one side or the other. We have seen that the coalition also has problems and that it needs the support of at least two other parliamentary groups and some other Member to provide an appropriate majority for certain solutions. That is why today's vote on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly is a vote which, of course, is very appropriate for this Chamber, which has recently become a arena in some way. The arena of many battles, an arena that will be monitored and carefully observed today by many people who disagree with the work of this government. 70% are about those that do not support this government. These people will be gathered before the National Assembly building today, and these people have eyes for the National Assembly in particular. Because, on the one hand, they see it as part of a space where it can be achieved that the government leaves. Of course, they do not have great hopes that the space would still be an open space of democracy, of course we are all aware that the good year of the SDS government has been severely divisive, not only of all other state institutions, but also of the National Assembly, not. Let me just mention that we still have the number of working bodies in this National Assembly, which do not reflect in any way the actual relations in Parliament, where the coalition by force provides the majority in contrast to any mathematics. It is, however, that these eyes are fixed on several individual Members, a few parliamentary groups that have the power to preserve the integrity of this National Assembly, which have the power to say no to today's vote and who have the power to say gradually not what is currently going on in the Republic of Slovenia under the government of SDS, NSI and SMC. Today, as a representative of the Levica Group, I can say that, of course, we will not support this resolution because we see it as a question of the existence of some minimum democratic standards in this National Assembly. The one who will, of course, will have to answer, sooner or later, especially to the people who have authority in this country, and also face the fear of men. Why is he afraid to say that this situation is no longer going anywhere and why it would be best to go to the elections now. Until then, of course, you have to figure out which side is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u170	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Igor Zorčič was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 March last year when a new coalition was formed, which was composed of SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC and DeSUS. The election of Mr Igor Zorčič as President of the National Assembly was therefore based on the cooperation of the SMC or on his participation in the coalition. On 26 March this year, the composition of the SMC coalition group changed. The President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, together with two other Members, resigned from the coalition group of the Modern Centre Party. A new group of unrelated Members, which is not part of the government coalition, has been established. In the Slovenian parliamentary system, it is quite common for the President of the National Assembly to come from a number of coalition members. This practice is already firmly anchored in the practice of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. It is taken into account by both the left-centre and centre-right coalition groups, and is therefore expected from the coalition to be the seat of the President of the National Assembly by another member of the coalition parliamentary groups. Last week we were also able to follow the historical case when the President of the National Assembly voted against the agenda he himself proposed. It has thus blocked the implementation of regular meetings and the adoption of laws that would improve living conditions for many citizens and citizens. No matter what, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Igor Zorčič, I thank you for the work done and for the proper cooperation in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u172	Dear, good-bye. Today we are again deciding on the dismissal of the Member of Parliament, President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. If we did not have any comments on his work on 30 March, let us today complement our position at least in the work relating to the recent attempt to block the work of the National Assembly, in which the President of the National Assembly also participated and which should be the president of all those who make up this assembly, and not just a group that is in some way increasingly bitter. We regret that we are in a situation where the political situation in the National Assembly is as it is. To cause us more trouble than to make our work easier. Some seem to be further on the road, so some of us are still making each other’s work impossible. As we have already said in March, two years ago, it was considered to be an excess of democracy if we have a minority government, and it is necessary to cultivate these relations and invest enormous energy and coordination in reaching consensus and compromises. Except when the Prime Minister is Janez Janša. But how, fellow Members? There is still some opinion that the current minority government, according to some, no longer has the same definition as it did two years ago. That there are no more votes and that we have to go to the elections automatically. However, the President of the National Assembly Igor Zorčič does not have enough votes and support. For this reason, the leaders of the opposition groups serve obstructions and prevent some of your Members from exercising their constitutional right because you simply know that they are also in your ranks who would support the resolution of Igor Zorčič. That's why you did it in March. So today it is not so much about assessing the work of the President of the National Assembly, it is about measuring the power and creating the truth in this process of weighing power and finding a new, perhaps even imaginary majority in this House. Each majority in Parliament has so far elected the President of the National Assembly. When most of these people were gone, the president of the National Assembly resigned. Most in the National Assembly, whatever this is, will today decide on the discharge of the current President of the National Assembly and may also decide on the appointment of another President of the National Assembly. And this is a practice that we have not established in this reference to Parliament, not under the mandate of Janez Janša, nor under the mandate of Marjan Sarc. This is a standard that we have established a long time ago, not only in Slovenia, but more broadly in Western democracies. These are verified standards that have some logic behind them, which also entail some minimum level of cooperation needed, including between the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly. However, cooperation must, of course, be bilateral. But can you be sure that the esteemed President of the National Assembly is at least at the minimum level of readiness to cooperate with the current Government? No, no, no. You can't. Its latest actions, which have threatened the legislative process of certain laws which are of exceptional importance to certain vulnerable social groups, show an unconstructive attitude not only towards Members and the Government, which at the end of the day is not even so important, but especially to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And that is why the President of the National Assembly should also step down, because today, in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal for its resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u173	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The first attempt to dismiss current President Igor Zorčič was a clear indication that the ruling coalition does not have the required majority of votes. The failed experiment at the end of March shook the coalition walls and announced that the coalition was awaiting a count and search for the necessary support in any major vote. However, during the month of May it turned out that problems already arise in the confirmation of the ordinary agenda of the meeting. In the appearance of a self-evident confirmation that was not voted on, it has clearly surprised the coalition Members and has further put the issue of early elections at the forefront. In the SAB, we're sure they're the only way. However, the National Assembly should, for the sake of the broken coalition- opposition relations, be reassembled. For the first time in our parliamentary history, and contrary to the clear provision of Article 33, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, the coalition has a disproportionately higher number of members in working bodies in view of the actual relations between the opposition and the coalition. This raises the issue of the full legitimacy of the working bodies and their decisions, and at the very least hinders the functioning of Parliament. We are in a situation where two parties are officially opposition, but in practice they support the government all the time. We don't know who is who and we have a so-called hanging Parliament. The disproportionate distribution of seats in committees and commissions runs contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is contrary to the sense of parliamentaryism. As the Rules of Procedure say, both coalition and opposition must participate in the consideration of laws because of their better quality. For example, the group of unrelated Members was prevented from voting on the committees for several weeks. Let us point out that the quasi-committal gesture of SMC and Desus of broken relations has not yet been definitively eliminated. It is true that the President of the National Assembly usually comes from coalition types. There's no doubt about that. However, given the vague situation in this House, the situation of Igor Zorčič is also not unusual. But it's really hard to work in these situations. This is what we all note, because unpredictability and instability are part of everyday life, and the legislative process is even longer than usual. The cards on the political floor must therefore be mixed as soon as possible. As long as this does not happen, we will be in the democratic opposition and, in particular, in the SAB party, we will draw attention to and monitor the government's harmful practices. It is essential for us to defend democratic order, respect for human rights, the rule of law, public education and public health. We do not want to wake up one day in the so-called second republic, but even though Slovenia is changing under the tactics of Janez Janša, who has a strong and long-known autocratic aspirations, right in front of our eyes. It is unfortunate, however, that it is changing into a direction that most citizens and citizens of this country do not want. This also confirms, according to the latest public opinion poll, that Janša's government is opposed to almost two thirds of all respondents. Despite this harassment and the creation of a state of emergency, the Prime Minister has not yet seen the end of a warning before the party congress against the renewal of the civil war. What are we talking about? These predictions are horrifying, and we can only hope that they will be at the dump of history as soon as possible. Our nation is sufficiently divided and does not deserve further distribution. And if the Prime Minister or the current government supports only 30% of the respondents, it is our view that the support for the first member of the National Assembly is significantly higher. In the SAB Group, we therefore see no reason why we should relieve an individual who does not account with other thinkers, who does not falsify history, and who does not go into a field elsewhere. The resolution of Igor Zorčič in the SAB Group will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a discharge. First of all, I have just been informed that all the panellists who have declared themselves have given up their debate by moving to the conclusion of the debate in which the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič, gets the floor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. I must say that what has been said by the leaders of the opposition groups is not much to add. As for the obvious, I was biased. Look, I'll take that. We must be aware, I am talking about the vote on the agenda for the regular session. We must be aware that we have been in a position to oppose the business and non-constitutional situation in which coalition Members had more votes on their working bodies than they do. And since there is a vote on the agenda that everyone, every time the President of the National Assembly, is voting, that is his right to express this or that opinion, I have no choice but to draw the opposition home. We are all aware that that vote was a surprise at the end. I think that, even in the opposition, no one expected the result to be the way it was, which further indicates that there are some true majority in this National Assembly, but, as I said in my opening position, the question that we are touching today is not a personal question, whether the presidency of the National Assembly should be a more permanent function or whether it would be a once-in-a-lifetime spoil of minority coalitions. Where this is highlighted as a problem, I will draw one parallel with what is said in relation to the elections, the early elections. In fact, in the coalition and in the government, they are very opposed to early elections because we are approaching the Presidency of the European Union, and we would give the European Union a sign if we had an election. I can tell you that the same is true for the presidency of the National Assembly. Look, even the parliamentary dimension of the presidency has already begun to run, we have already prepared a lot of events, we have issued invitations, I think it is equally pointless to make changes in the National Assembly during the presidency. It will be very funny, therefore, after your thought, if those who come from Europe to various events of the National Assembly see someone other than the one who invited them, but I do not think that this is an ad person matter for cooperation with the Government, it is the same for every President of the National Assembly to cooperate with it. He has to cooperate with the President of the National Assembly. The cabinet of the President of the Government must inform the President of the National Assembly or the Cabinet of the President of the National Assembly whenever the President of the Government is unable to attend the session, so that I can return the ball quickly here, in particular with regard to the last meeting, and I do not think that this is a matter that would tantamount to the position of the National Assembly in the coalition or opposition. It's just one of the basic political manners. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not gonna take today's vote to heart. I think that each of you bears one of its fundamental responsibilities, that you understand that if the seat of the President of the National Assembly or another has been enshrined in the 2020 coalition agreement, which was withdrawn by the party Desus, and the SMC party has substantially changed since then, because it has left half of the Members that it is not in place for anyone to support such a break-up coalition treaty, and of course if a new coalition is formed, if we have a new majority, which will show up in about an hour, then I will be happy to propose this function to the new President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I conclude the debate and move on to a secret vote. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with Article 99, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the discharge of the President of the National Assembly shall be decided by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already provided me with proposals for members of the committee who presides over the vote: Franc Breznik The SDS Group of Members, Mr Predrag Baković The SD Group of Members, Mr Boštjan Koražija The Left Group of Ambassadors and Mr Blaž Pavlin The NSI Group of Ambassadors. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] Before we proceed with the procedural proposal, Mr Brane Golubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in LMŠ, we announce the obstruction of voting on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. In the democratic society of the President of the National Assembly, the parliamentary majority always elects a parliamentary majority, which is usually a coalition that also supports the government. This parliamentary majority must always gather 46 votes or more, and if you gather so many votes today, there will also be a new government coalition. However, because in this House some still claim that the opposition is part of this coalition, the Slovenian National Party, for example, does not want them to hide in secret ballots how and what they voted on and we will therefore obstruct this water in the LMŠ and this water in Parliament who is the opposition and who has cleared the coalition. Today at 28. 5. we will see whether the government of Janez Janša has 46 plus supporters or not. As long as you have them, you'll get a new president of the National Assembly. As long as you don't have them, it's nice to remove the fences and go back to history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han wants a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u180	Yes, thank you very much. In fact, on the basis of Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I declare that we will obstruct the vote on the discharge of Mr Igor Zorčič. But history will tell you what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u181	Thank you. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u182	Thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I also declare the absence of all Members and Members of the Left Group in this agenda item. We've told you many reasons. As the coalition's stated responsibility is certainly to elect the President of the National Assembly, and if it wants to be resolved, it is so when we do not participate in this vote that we leave mainly parliamentary mathematics to prove that it has forever, but if it does not, most of us probably see each other in a good hour of protests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Ms Masha Kociper also wants a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the SAB Group, we also declare obstruction at this point in accordance with Article 65, second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. Everything has already been said, I can only add, on our behalf, that relations in this House are not clear and that receptions, such as obstruction, are clearly needed to show who really supports whom and who is the opposition and coalition. To avoid various insinuations, we will therefore obstruct this vote in the SAB Group, and let the coalition and those who cooperate with it prove that they have sufficient votes to vote or first for the resolution, and then to vote in favour of the new President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug also wanted a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We have reached the point where the end of the transfer and when it turns out which side is sitting, we will therefore also be Members of the Unbound Members' Group in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at this point, so that we will not offer these chances of concealing our votes to anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič also wants a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u188	Yes, thank you for your word. I must first say that we will take the votes and we will vote. However, I must also point out that when the constructive non-trust was not long ago, we were particularly colleagues and ourselves under great pressure to take over the ballots, because this is our right and also our duty, even under the Constitution, which is why I am surprised and surprised by this hard deadline, by the discipline of Members who cannot and must not vote as we have seen, they had to leave. I think that this is a very bad sign for Slovenia, for parliamentaryism, as well as for the function of a Member as such. I think it is our duty to vote that we are in favour, against or abstention. Members and Members of Parliament, at least some, are entitled to this right. And this seems extremely bad to me, and such negative practices need to be again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u189	Yes, Mr Gregor Perič, this was not a procedural proposal, because you did not mention it in any way in your implementation, you did not say what you are proposing about the Rules of Procedure and the procedure or the question, you simply commented. And let me tell you from the chair that the Institute of Obstruction is one of the legitimate and legal tools established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so it is somewhat unfair to speak about the fact that Members and Members are in any way prevented from working. They did, but we decided to use this instrument of obstruction, as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly simply legitimately define. So much for the explanation. If there are no further procedural proposals, Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to warn you that those who obstruct have three members on the electoral commission and those who do not obstruct two members. And it would also be good in view of the correctness of the electoral process or the resolution of the matter, to reconcile it somehow with the presence and also, I do not think that it is right to do so. I suggest you think about it and, if necessary, put it together on a new electoral committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko, for your procedural proposal. In explanation, the Commission has been proposed by representatives of the parliamentary groups and I do not see any reasonable and legitimate reason why Members who have just been voted in this National Assembly would not trust this electoral commission to do their work properly, despite the fact that some tools of obstruction have been used, so that we continue to work within the framework of the electoral commission that we voted as the National Assembly. If there are no more procedural proposals, let me read the following text. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of the European Parliament are requested to keep each other's distance when waiting for voicemails to be delivered in accordance with preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with 84. The Constitutions of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly [[…]] Mr. Tanko, if you'll excuse me, because I can't even read in peace. Yes, thank you very much. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be dismissed if the majority of all Members vote in favour of discharge, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that, during the secret ballots, persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. We'll start the vote in 10 minutes, that's 5:00 and 40 minutes and it'll be [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] At 5 p.m. and 10 minutes, I apologize, and it'll take up to 5 p.m. and 25 minutes. So I interrupt this agenda item and we will continue the meeting at 5 p.m. and 40 minutes. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 17.02.) (The sitting resumed at 17.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-28-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u192	Your Honor, we continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the hearing of the 23rd item - Proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič. The minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, shall be read. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 28 May 2021. 47 votes were distributed, 47 votes were cast, two votes invalid, 45 votes valid. 45 members voted in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] As the majority of all Members did not vote in favour of resolution, Igor Zorčič is not dismissed from office as President of the National Assembly on the basis of the outcome of the vote. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 75th extraordinary session, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 1 June, at 9 a.m. and congratulations to President Zorčič. Thank you very much, very nice day.
