ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. We continue to consider the general part of the draft amending budget. I'm sorry. There is also a notification of Members and Members who are unable to attend the meeting. That's Dr. McKinley. Franc Trček until 17:00, Nada Brinovšek, Franc Jurša, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Miha Kordiš from 12 noon onwards, Violeta Tomić between 13:00 and 14:00, Alexander Reberšek, I cannot attend the meeting between 11.30 and 13.30, Nick Prebil from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and then from 17 p.m., Carmen Furman, FPredrag Baković from 9 p.m. to 14 p.m., Matjaž Han from 16:00, Iva Dimic from 16:00, Jerca Korče, Tadej Šuštar Zalar. We continue to consider the general part of the draft amending budget. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm going to set up an application for the list of discussers. Please sign up. [[background advertising]] It's not working? Let's do it again. Please sign up. The first one has the word Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings for everyone. It is also a greeting to the distinguished Minister, Mr Andre Shirtz. I fully understand for a moment the opposition's fiery debate on budgetary documents, which are certainly one of the most important documents that we are considering in the National Assembly. I will, of course, highlight those data that have not been produced in the coalition and not in the opposition and which they give and must give to the Slovenian economy and Slovenian society some positive connotation that we probably all need and miss in these difficult health moments. Although, I repeat, my thoughts are this time and for a few days now, a few weeks with a medical staff who saves our lives, human lives. That's the best we got. I hope that all of us will be able to overcome this deadly virus that is in front of us, which, unfortunately, some people do not understand and thus infect themselves from some selfish tendencies, or help to infect others, perhaps even those closest to us. But anyway, we are in the budgetary documents that have, of course, been produced in this health situation, as we have in Europe, Slovenia, in fact, throughout the world. And it is perfectly normal for these budget documents to reflect this severe health crisis. But as I said, I'm going to write down some positive elements that can give us some optimistic climate. Of course, we are always concerned when we talk about public debt, about the debt of the country, about the debt of the state sector. I know we're worried when we have budget deficits. But if I look at the credit ratings of international houses that specialize in giving credit ratings to countries, in particular our country of the Republic of Slovenia, probably not people from the coalition or opposition, but are experts, if we look at these assessments, we see that they are good, so we have the international community, the financial markets and so on, to trust us that countries trust us. And that's the key. Trust is the key. By the way, I understand the opposition's criticism of public debt. The opposition must warn of that. But if we look at the interest payments. Last year, the government debt service expenditure was nominally €772 million. If I measure this in GDP, this is 1.7% of GDP. 1.7. This figure of €772 million is lower by more than €300 million compared to 2014 when interest was again measured in GDP, 2.9%. Thus, in 2014, interest expenditure was 2.9 per cent of GDP, last year when the epidemic was severe, was 1.7 per cent of GDP. And most importantly, what is always seen by economists, financiers, as are trends. The trend in interest expenditure is declining. I could keep listing these projections, but we've got them in print. It's a drawback. We can make a budget, if I'm more accurate, changes to the budget for 2022, so for next year, without any major problems we can make it without a deficit. Just as the updated draft budget for 2023, which is on the table, can be done without a hitch if we switch a few numbers, without a deficit. Very simple – we only delete investments. You know we have investments planned. This country has planned investments, for the next year more than 2 billion and similar for 2023 more than 2 billion. Once again, I understand and accept the criticism of the opposition, czech, the deficit is great, but also the trends concerning the deficit are good, the deficit is shrinking. We also have trends on this in graphic form. But we need to agree in the National Assembly whether we are to delete our investments so that we have a budget without deficit. Is that what we're for? From the amendments, we're not. No one's for that. Because then we should tell you exactly which kindergarten we're not building. It must be said that an amendment should be tabled to reduce the investment in kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know that in fact there have been no investments in the last decade, there have been no investments, there has been no co-financing of the country into the kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. Of course, they are the founders of kindergartens and elementary schools of the local community, but they cannot. You also know, we've probably been here at the same wavelength, that local communities have been financially fed for several years, over the last few years. Of course, it was an economic crisis and so on, I understand everything. But we have to decide which school we're not going to work, which school we're not going to build, which kindergarten we're not going to build. If the congregations applied for this call, for which we had made a largely obvious lack of money, only 40 million, because we did not know what the needs were, then it turned out that the needs of order were 120 million, thank God that there was so much political will that the government provided an additional 80 million to cover these needs of the congregations. Community? Guys. I'm not going to explain why kindergarten is needed there, why primary school is needed there and so on. There's only one I know in my home congregation where I live. If there is no kindergarten, the kindergarten will have to cancel half of the children in 2022 or more in 2023 because there is no capacity. Thank God, he was some kind of babyboom when there were only more of them, and there's too little capacity. So much for public education and so much for public primary schools. I am very grateful to you when you were in the coalition, the previous government, the previous coalition, that at least some of you supported the amendment of New Slovenia, which provided some additional millions for primary and kindergarten infrastructure. Minister Pikalo was very grateful, but it was all, I don't know, I mean, small things actually. That is why we are now talking about almost 120 million to invest in kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. Do we have the heart to say that we will not build those elementary schools? Why not? Because there's no money. Or some kind of kindergarten. I believe we're all on the same side here, I believe. Clearly, however, the rhetoric of the opposition is slightly different from that of the coalition. It is also clear that these roles are changing. If we want to reduce investment, let us also say that we will not build a home for the elderly because there is no need. We ourselves know that right now in this epidemic, which has exposed many areas in our social sub-systems, in our society, it has actually been shown that some homes for older people simply do not correspond to a healthy human life. We have a nursing home where there are five, six tenants. We all know, and we all know what that means when the virus hits. The section found that some objects are simply not suitable and simply need to be replaced with new ones. Do we have so many hearts to provide these elderly people who built this country with a normal autumn of life, as it is called? I'm not going to talk about how long it didn't work out, but maybe it really invested in some other, yeah, some research and so on, analysis. This is not the theme of today's agenda. But I have to say, I was hurt when a colleague from the left-hand political spectrum discussed yesterday, and I just printed a magnetogram that doesn't lie: "Now she's investing in homes, yes, she's investing in concrete, yes, because you didn't know the recovery plan to report projects that would invest in people, you've prepared projects that invest in concrete and various kinds of frauds that you wouldn't want to do." End of story. You can't believe this. So investing in nursing homes isn't investing in people, it's investing in concrete. Excuse me, colleagues - can we even articulate such words, such thoughts? What kind of shame is that? What is this attitude toward house dwellers and those waiting in line? “Now it’s invested in homes, yes, it’s invested in concrete, yes.” We need to think about it here. Well, I hope this rhetoric doesn't repeat itself. It's about our parents, our old parents. Are they concrete? Please, a little more heart, but one would only expect it. I understand the opposition rhetoric must be sharp, but when we have a budget meeting, we prefer numbers. Yeah, that we didn't know-- what's up there? A recovery plan. I'm in a position, as if I knew, to quickly present the dynamics of fund-raising. I'm talking about a recovery and resistance plan. You know that we have about 1.8 billion grants and about 700 million repayments, that is to say credits with extremely favourable interest rates. The government adopted this recovery and resistance plan in April this year. At the very beginning of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union, immediately, practically on the first day, the European Commission gave a green light to our recovery and resilience plan, which means that this plan is likely to be made in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and that it is good that the ratios, how far into the green transition, how far into digital transformation and so on, are smart, sustainable and inclusive growth to invest. When the European Commission unlocked this, she said here, and yet, we got around to think that 233 million advance payments based on a recovery and resistance plan. And now here's what the colleague says we didn't know. See, health and social security have a total of almost 364 million. Green transition is the largest, one billion 65 million, digital transformation 317 million, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth 737 million and so on. So together, as I said before, it's down to 2 billion and a half. I do not agree with the fact that we did not know in the recovery plan and the resilience to take care of social security. We knew. Yesterday, I also listened to the eyewitnesses, saying what you're bragging about, because no home is ever built. There's some sort of order in this country, you have to have a building permit, you can't start building when you don't have a financial structure closed. Those of us who know this thing for a little bit know how things work. When the invitation is either for kindergarten, primary school, nursing homes, you must have the projects prepared and the financial structure closed. Who's going to give you eyes like that even if they're so beautiful? When you're in power, you'll be opening these kindergartens, elementary schools, nursing homes. Isn't that nice? We're just guaranteeing, not us, the National Assembly. The National Assembly accepts the budget, not Marko Jože. The National Assembly. There is a right to drinking water in the Constitution. Sure, we got her. Although it's a matter of normality, not a constitution. But we have it. How much did we make out of this? True, we do not yet have regulated sectoral legislation. As far as I'm concerned personally, I don't really need any sectoral legislation, I'll just say it directly. However, I need that projects are actually financed or co-financed. Water supply is in accordance with legislation governing local communities or local self-government. It is written down as one of the primary tasks of the local community. Is that right? Hold it, hold it. But as it is said, local communities can't make mega-Romanian investments. That is why we have European resources and so on. I went to the SVR yesterday when I listened to these discussions, when there was nothing to do with drinking water and so on, to check the SVR and I got on the phone information that it was for water supply, that is to say, the supply of people with drinking water, to co-finance such projects, about EUR 380 million was allocated. Big majority in the last year and a half. That's what they call cohesion funds just over 380 million. When the Committee on European Union Affairs examines the half-yearly report on the drawing-up of European cohesion policy funds, Members will be able to request concrete projects funded by cohesion funds. There's a lot of need, ladies and gentlemen, for drinking water supply, a lot. I'm not going to talk about those I don't know so much, but I do know, like, the pomur waterworks, which was the largest cohesion project in the country. We started it years ago when a letter of intent was signed between the mayors of Pomur. There's 27 of them. Why? Because Goričko didn't have any drinking water. Then others also found that we have reputable drinking water, since the village’s water supply, which we built specifically in my village in the early 1970s, is permanent. The volume of drinking water was from a depth of four meters, five, six maybe, and so on. But it doesn't matter now, it's some history for some history books. Let's keep looking. I was talking about Gorika. Yes, Goričko, I'm sorry, but at least she still doesn't have any drinking water. There we have system B from the water supply, covering 10 and 12 municipalities. This project B was thrown out of this financial perspective in the previous government. And they said, "Yes, you have no documentation, you will build it in the next financial perspective." It was a bad will for the mayors of Gore, then we agreed to meet at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and the mayors said they were ready to prepare all the documentation by the end of 2020. That's right. Then they brought her in with the van. During the e-commerce period, one van of documentation brought to the Ministry of Environment and Space is required. There the documentation was reviewed within three months and both ministers, both Minister Vizjak and then Minister Zvona Černač, signed it. With this, this 36-million-dollar project of the mountain water supply, system B of the waterworks, got the green light. 36 million, 22 million cohesion funds. And from Pomurje, system C, Prlecija, 6 million also during this government. It is said that there are 28 million cohesion funds for the statistical region of Pomurje at this time for the supply of drinking water in Pomurje. I can only be grateful to all those, first at local level, who have made sure that this documentation is regulated as required by the rules. If I'm already in investment, if we get together, but I'm not voting to delete the investment, then we can also delete one of the gyms at Rakičan Health School. This school is 61 years old, and she hasn't had a gym in all these years. That's probably a Slovenian record. The school is 61 years without a gym. Thank God, now the matter is so far away that there is about €6 million investment in the development programmes plan. I hope they agree well that they will do the same. It'll be the next government to cut the tape, as they say when the opening comes. I'm definitely not gonna be there. However, I will be there when the budget is voted on and will be my vote for the budget. I'm glad you opened the area of Anhove, the water supply of Anhovo. Anhovo's story, which I confess, was first met during the 2004-2008 term. That's when we talked about asbestos, asbestos and so on. I think it was one of the first laws I covered in this national council. Water needs to be provided. Once again, this is the primary concern of local communities. We will support this amendment, we will support it, but it will not do any good if the budget falls because you guarantee that you will all oppose it. Yeah, I hear we've got some kind of high-level parliament, even though I don't know what that means. But fine, we will support quite a few of your amendments: infrastructure, water supply, education and so on, which is not the custom. It doesn't happen very often. Well, we do, too. I have to be grateful. But if the budget doesn't work, we can accept 100 amendments to the Anhovo pipeline, that's not gonna happen. That's probably very clear to everyone. But it can happen to us, and this is now more of a concern for some future governments to be civil initiatives, and I appreciate them, those who will put pressure on the National Assembly to accept amendments for water supply, and this is a noble act to understand each other. I'm just sorry that I've never seen one of them before, and I've never seen it happen when it comes to water supply to Pomurje. Maybe I missed one. I apologize in advance. But if it's a general practice, it might be a problem. One more thing, because there were a lot of perceptions that we were neglecting culture and so on. One interesting graph came into my hands, I don't know if you see it, one asymmetric Triglav, which says this: Comparison of budgets for culture. And lists the ministers who were responsible. The minister is responsible for his cake, no one else. The Minister of Culture is responsible for the budget cake of the Ministry of Culture. Mr Dejan Prešiček has achieved this 162 million-dollar cake. Minister Zoran Poznic was slightly more successful, for about 10 million he was more successful and achieved a culture cake of EUR 172.8 million. Minister Vasko Simoniti has so far been the most successful in Slovenia. Apparently the government trusts him, the coalition trusts him. This achieved a cake of almost EUR 238 million for culture, for Slovenian culture. It's really hard to hear that the government ignores culture and so on. However, as far as cultural heritage is concerned, it has been neglected and neglected in the past. We have so much wealth, there is so much wealth in this Slovenia, which we could finally sell when we talk about the development of tourism. But no, but no. Now I just want whoever realizes this budget - Dr. Vasko Simoniti probably doesn't, elections are, we know, when - those who come after him will really be able to do it as planned. And one more thing. Digital transformation. I am happy, I always like the positive news, even if it is published by European associations, and I am glad to read that Slovenia has made significant progress on the digital economy and society index. This is the so-called Desi index. We have made progress in the thirteenth place, which is to say, we are above the European average for these two places. It's another good thing we probably can't be in a bad mood about. So much, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, once again, I express my support for these budgetary documents, and I want all those who will be responsible for the implementation of these budgetary documents in 2022 and 2023, that they will actually succeed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone! I have a replica, my colleague Horvat, although I discussed it more at the outset yesterday, I hope that you listened to me in my debate when I drew attention to the preparation and adoption process at the level of the Government of this proposal for amending the budget for 2022. And I'm going to explain again, because it seems to me that you didn't fully understand my words and warnings. If I refer to your debate, you said there was some sort of order in this country. That's what you were saying in terms of building permits. Let me point out once again that this order applies elsewhere. In preparing the changes to the budget for 2022, your government, Sir Horvat, has violated all the rules of the game, the procedures laid down by the law. You have disregarded the basic provisions of the Public Finance Act, which are replaced by a constitutional decision, ignored the financial plans of institutions that have a special constitutional position by the Constitution and asked in their debate where we have a heart to deny or question the correctness and importance of some of your investments either in the sports halls, schools or in the circulars, and I hope that you will understand better if I illustrate the case, I ask you again, where do you have the heart, that you are violating the law and the fundamental rules that apply to the adoption of the draft amending budget. All of this I have pointed out in my debate, and apparently once again this government and representatives of the government coalition show that the law or rules of the game that are set elsewhere, in any other act, are respected selectively, when it suits you when you do not like it, but that is not respected. I give you back the ball, Comrade Horvat: where do you have the heart to break the law to all citizens in front of you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Look, there's no replica on the replica. A colleague said where she was misunderstood in her discussion. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. I hope we calm down a little bit. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! It's a nice greeting to the Minister who's between us. For the second day, we are considering a proposal for a state budget for 2022, as well as a supplement for 2023, which tells us what the government wants to do and what it will spend on, where it will get the money, how much it will borrow and where it will give it. This is a framework adopted by Parliament, which gives the government the tools to implement this plan, this plan. I am pleased that colleague Horvath has drawn on a day-to-day recovery and resistance plan adopted by the European Commission. Thank God, I would say a little in Christian terms that Europe has also learned the necessity of organised and planned action by additional expansion of money. The EU has adopted a decisive plan for the recovery and resilience of EU Member States. For the outcome of the crisis, this plan weighs almost 2 000 billion in the next seven years, which will also give Slovenia a large brownie of grants and also reimbursements, just over 10 billion total. This money I see as the only real source that would enable Slovenia to address effectively the three fundamental issues ahead of us and are in fact our greatest long-term challenges: how to integrate social all layers, how to strengthen knowledge and health and how to care for older people, how to achieve green transformation, how to ensure economic and social development that enables new technologies, digitalisation. However, my view is that for success it is necessary to change the approach and the tools thoroughly. Good hands and cubicles of concrete aren't enough. The main tool is certainly knowledge, which is able to set a future in depth and plan. Knowledge is what separates the master from the servants. With the current Slovenian government, however, I have a feeling and thus an elephant thinking about past beliefs and orientations. He still swears on free-market neo-capitalism, which is a more accurate term than neo-liberalism. Let's just take a look at the economic plan of Horvati's NSI party, which is very much in favour of profit, so they think, and the attitude towards tax cuts, the social cap, the reduction of the protection of workers' rights. This government no longer conducts social dialogue. Somehow there is still a desire here to leave the future of Slovenia anonymous to market forces and predatory capital. This recovery and resilience plan is evidence, this first plan, which was given in a very short public debate and was ripped apart by the professional public. The European Commission has completely rejected it. I'm talking about what's true and not bothering me, please, or, President, I don't know what they're using the green recovery tracker they're using to determine how green this plan is. [[…]] They found it to be only 5% of the plan. Fortunately, this plan was completely rejected, we had to draw up a new plan and this plan was coordinated and adopted. Thanks to this mess from Brussels and the condition that we receive these European funds, including the grants, is now ahead of us this health programme, this long-term care law has come before us, these investments in homes for the elderly, because this is what the European Commission is asking us to get the money at all. However, this is not enough in the present budget. These were also our comments. Many of this remains in the circulars, the periphery, the gyms, as spoke of by a colleague from NSI, which is all that is necessary, do not misinterpret me. Apparently, this was promised to the municipalities at this first stage in the field, and now, before the elections, there is no way that the government coalition can refuse these promises. I believe that this is one of the main reasons for the additional enormous inflatability of budgetary expenditure and, as a result, the enormous indebt. As this budget is drawn up and as prepared by this plan, Slovenia does not guarantee a green development breakthrough. If we want to make this breakthrough, we need a different approach and we need all the knowledge we overcome in Slovenia, both those on the coalition side and those currently in the opposition. As a result of such an approach, this indebtedness makes our country's public finances poor, very poor and therefore justifies the opposition's concern at such a budget that is proposed to us. The numbers do not lie, and despite the good news that the government has saved people and lives, they reveal in black and white what the government has done with public finances and how successful it is in action. The analysis of revenue and expenditure shows very clearly that the government's policy generated 3.5 billion deficits in 2020. Of these, there were only 2 billion to deal with the crisis. The deficit rose to 4 billion in a year, of which only 2 billion are the result of crisis resolution. According to your estimates, the debt in 2022 will amount to about 2.5 billion, of which only 640 million are earmarked for the epidemic crisis. If I tell you from home how we can see such debt, what has happened in many families and households. They went to a bank that offered a lot of money. I set up a house that I inherited from my parents, worth about half a million, then it was, I borrow 300 grand, out of which I give 230 grand for a vacation home, for another 70 grand, and I enjoy it. When the time comes to return the principal, I kind of run out of money. And I borrow it. Only this time the interest rate is not 1%, but it is 5.5% that I have to pay against and the principal. The tides are rising, my incomes are falling, I have nothing to do but sell. But I'm not selling for $230,000 for the weekend. I'm selling for $130,000. But for a car, I can make five grand. I need to borrow some place again. Spiral continues until they finally confiscate me and cash the house for half the price. This is how I finally cover my debt, and in the end, me and my kids are left with nothing. This has happened and is still happening with overindebtedness. Now there's something that the opposition has been told to say to the Flosculs, statements that have nothing to do with life. What we're saying about the factions that coalition parties are talking about, the propaganda contributions like: we work for people, we borrow money to help people, and you borrow it to help banks. Oh, big word! It's a complete delusion! In the money economy, it's the banks that make the money between those who have the surplus and those who lack it. That's how loans are made. That's how the houses were built, that's how the production was built, that's how anything was pumped. But in the end, the banks have to pay back the money. If they cannot recover the money, where they have borrowed it, either from the population or from foreign banks, the recovery or bankruptcy of the bank follows. If there's a bankruptcy, there's a mortgage refund. People would have lost their apartments, their houses, and their jobs, because as a result, businesses would have gone bankrupt. In order to avoid this in order to avoid the consequences of the question, which lasted from 2004 to 2008, when Slovenia's external gross debt increased from 17 billion to 42 billion, the other Janša government made the necessary move. It stopped the company to manage the bad bank claims. The government of Alenka Bratusek picked it up and brought it all the way. With this grip, which cost the country several billion dollars, we have saved the whole system, saved the economy, saved people from breaking down. So they'd say that this move was forced, but I'm afraid if we're going to be so indebted we're going to need another move that's going to cost us dearly. That's another thing. Always an indication of what governments have done in the last 20 years. Again, you don't do math. You're not doing math again. The parties to this coalition have led the government of Slovenia for more than half a year, over 10 years in the last 20 years. The opposition parties, however, led the government for seven years. So you're not good at math. These are the facts. And mathematics, as in debts, is here in these matters. One more. We borrow money at the lowest interest rate, you get it by the highest. We've heard that one multiple times, and it's not true again. The second Janša government paid the highest rate of return. Why can we borrow at the lowest interest rate? This is not the credit of this government, believe me, this is the general situation on the market, all over the world interest has fallen. Let me look back at my colleague from NSI, why credit cards consider us credible. Because, for the first time in this recent history, the previous government has dealt with a budget that was positive. And that's what the credit card companies are looking at. We have made a positive budget and we have not boasted about giving money to people, we have shared their money, the money of taxpayers back to people for what is considered the most necessary. But you boast that you give to people, do not share, and you give. Where do you get it from? Out of debt, which can lead us back to a catastrophic spiral. As in 2004 and 2008, this question is now continuing and growing. And I'm afraid -- I hope this doesn't happen, but I'm justifiably afraid -- that we can also have a big recession. It is easy to boast of the growth of gross social product by pumping it with borrowed money. See what pumps the product on the Coast when I gave the case earlier, what if I get a loan and buy a holiday apartment. On the Coast, all intermediaries and builders are happy to have buyers for vacation apartments mainly of the types of doctors you gave them helicopter money to say so because helicopter money always helps because it increases demand, and this raises economic growth and raises the social gross product. That is why Europe has also given this additional money. These are smart moves, just don't overdo it and don't put money in things that they can't bring. We have made some comments and I hope they will be taken into account. It's a few hundred thousand or a couple of million on this budget. We didn't say what to cancel, they weren't high figures, but we thought it would make sense to add something. I hope that we can balance this budget. In the SAB, we are thinking about the ventilation of schools, because this will help to stop the epidemic. Long-term care needs to be provided because this law does not currently have a financial coverage, nor does it have a budget for the implementation of long-term care. We have given something else for mental health, especially for the mental health of children who have suffered greatly from social imprisonment. So we're a little in a dilemma, if we don't support it, the government won't have a framework for smart things either. If we support it, I don't know, we'll be working on a bad plan. So we're in a dilemma. I hope that in the course of the debate and in the amendments, the government will offer some solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I greatly appreciate my colleague Vojko Starović, and in fact his achievements, he has achieved many of them when he was an extremely successful businessman and so on. The replica is very nice, but it's simply that we're telling the truth here. I am glad, first of all, that you have read our program, and I recommend it to others, but there you may have expressed yourself awkwardly when you say that we are cheering or how to reduce labour rights. Our president, the founder of Dr. Andrej Bajuk, the finance minister from 2004 to 2008 was the one who brought the first in the history of this country into the National Assembly a law on the participation of workers in profits. It's just one of those things. This law was adopted in 2008. You may also be doomed to something that happens to everyone about the recovery plan and the resistance. See, some of the opposition already in February, at the beginning of the year, said that the European Commission had rejected our recovery and resistance plan. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing mechanisms for recovery and resilience was adopted on 12 February 2021. From then on, the conditions of use, the requirements of what national recovery and resilience plans must look like. Apparently, the Slovenian government has prepared a good one, or the European Commission would not have supported it at the beginning of our presidency. So much for that. But there's something else we'll say in the hallway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag has the floor. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I would respond to the inaccuracies that Mr Starović said when he said that the European Commission had not at all confirmed the recovery and resistance plan. In this regard, I would like to say the facts which are evident by European documents, namely that on 1 July this year the European Commission issued a positive assessment of the recovery and resistance plan for Slovenia. On this basis, an implementing decision was taken which was considered by the Council for European and Financial Affairs 26. 7. The decision was then confirmed in writing. In other words, at that time, the European and Financial Affairs Council, to which I personally preside, approved a recovery and resilience plan for Slovenia. It's said, it's not true and it's not true, and it's published everywhere. That is why I will not use a word that illustrates the content that the plan was not adopted by the European Commission, as Mr Starović claims. On this basis, Slovenia has already received a prepayment of 13% of the amount it has given. That amounted to 231 million. This is said not only has this plan been approved by Ecofin, but we have already received an advance on this basis. And perhaps this is what Slovenia is rated on the basis of — all these credit ratings in their report. And this is mainly debt management and robustness, the capital adequacy of the financial system. These are the elements that make the ratings of the credit rating houses provided by Slovenia the most conditional. Just for information, because I'd like so much to operate here with accurate information, but not with, and I'll call it, misleading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Starovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Mr. Minister, since we know each other well, I know he's a connoisseur, and I don't know how Mr. Minister could have misunderstood me. I, on the other hand, commended the plan on its adoption. I spoke earlier about a draft that was rejected, which was misjudged. Then came a new one, which was in public debate at the time. Before the draft was actually, it wasn't a plan yet, it was a plan. And a new plan was adopted. And, thank God, he was accepted. But it took a kick from Brussels to take into account instructions on how to allocate funds and for what purposes. I think this plan is inappropriately better than that initial draft. But in the initial draft, there were some promises because it was made from the bottom up, as your minister put it. He made it clear how that plan came about, which was the collective desire of the congregations. We had him in our hands, we saw him explain him to Zvonko Blackach. That's what I've been writing about, and I've been discussing it. As for the houses of credit, I agree with you, absolutely, Mr. Minister, that it is based on this. But they always judge, like all finances, on the basis of financial results or the results of previous years. When the previous government was, we had a plus both years. And that's what counts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. She's got a magic word. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is obvious that this current government is bubbling up to both the constitution and the common sense of the farmer. I point out the Constitution because already in 2021 it spent 1.5 billion expenditure, which, of course, has already been used by the budget rebalancing, it came to the National Assembly, which means that it violates the Constitution in 148. Why Article 148? Article 148 states that all revenue and expenditure must be covered by the budget. And even these exceptional circumstances, which are in fact today, are still in force under certain fiscal rules. In 2020, the deficit amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, which I must say is that due to the outbreak of the epidemic, the uncertain situation, the economic halting is somehow logical. In 2021, however, you are increasing the deficit to EUR 4 billion, which is significantly more than in 2020. Such a negative that we have this year surprises me a little bit, given that you are saying that we have an extremely high economic growth. About the extremely low rate of unemployment we witnessed and you are full of mouths, how in fact the labour force is lacking. It's so totally unacceptable for me to talk about such a high deficit. For next year, the government is forecasting an additional EUR 2.5 billion. Otherwise, there will be some cod costs here, now I don't know if I have the right data, 640 million, and for the next year 2023 an additional €1.5 billion, even though it is estimated that we will have a re-high economic growth. It's kind of common sense to think about saving some money for years to come. Why am I saying this? We don't know whether there will be another epidemic in 2022 or 2023 that we can't talk about today or, God forbid that there will be any natural elemental disaster that's already going on around the world today, and we may still need every euro hard enough and any savings would be in our favor. The fiscal world also warns us of astronomical indebtedness. I won't even talk about it, because within four years the current government will create, say and write, 1.5 billion deficits. It's a huge deficit. The government is wasting irresponsibly, and I'm confused with a healthy farmer's cleverness. Why? This government also employs a lot, according to the new staffing plan, 600 new jobs. And if these jobs were still where we really need them, it's social welfare, education, but I'm not going to talk because I think the Minister knows too well where these jobs are that are being reopened. And, yes, it's also invested in walls, but it has to be realized that in these walls, in these nursing homes, in these kindergartens, which will be built with European funds, there is a need to provide a staff. And even in health institutions that will, the walls won't do us any good if we don't have people to work with. So I think that as a matter of priority we should provide as many resources as possible to obtain new staff. But we'll have new staff when we have decent salaries. And only then will we keep the footage in Slovenia so that it does not go abroad. It's really very hard to say when you look at the whole budget somehow, who's the winner in this budget, who's the loser. If you look at it in an integrated way, you can say that everyone in the budget is increasing, but when you look at the budget in a little bit more detail, you just find that the losers are independent budget users, who are confirmed by the government's financial plans, but then they are not taken into account in the proposal itself. Here I am talking mainly about the Council of Justice, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the Constitutional Court, and I cannot go past the National Assembly – the State Council had quite a nice exposition on the core working body of the Committee on Finance – all of these institutions are under-estimated. Unfortunately, these amendments are not even possible and this is a violation of the constitutional role and constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court. If I also touch these pressures, social pressures. I have also looked a little bit at the implementation of this year's budget, and I see that the budget line of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of social assistance exceeds that estimate, which was foreseen for 2021. It also shows that in 2022 the funds are falling or will be lower in the area of social assistance. But I fear that, given the preciousness and everything that is happening in this time of day, this budget item will be substantially too low. And we also have a culture at impact. Regardless of how successful the former ministers in the field of culture have been today, and how much the current Minister Simoniti has gained this year, but the resources for amateur culture are falling, the funds for publishing, the artistic programmes and the promotion of creativity are under-planned. However, it is extremely interesting that funds for the financing of religious communities are being increased. So perhaps the minister here will be able to tell me why there is an increase in funds for religious communities. And because I said we have winners on the one hand, we have budget losers on the other, and the budget winners can say they are repressive authorities, especially the military and the police. If I touch any more of yesterday's calls, czech, support the Income Act so that people have higher wages. Yes, the middle layer will actually get something, but there will be about 850 million less in the budget, so I might suggest that everyone put themselves in their own skin if they get half wages and they should live with it. But the worst part is that somehow you're planning these funds, which you don't have at the end of the day, so I might be interested by the Ministry in whether the reduction of these income funds is planned in the budget. I don't think so, but that's why I'm asking if I'm wrong. It should be pointed out that citizens and citizens are in charge of more than 20,000 euros today. These are already high amounts, and this government has indeed done a great deal of debt. For a few years she has entrusted us and under this government Slovenia is wooding us in the wrong direction, directly into a painful public finances, I do not know, although I hope there will be no break or any bankruptcy. We have seen all this once before in the first government of Janša, when it was an excellent economic growth, but the very high level of public finances saved by the following governments have been left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We probably understand each other when we're talking about building a home for the elderly. Here I am grateful to my colleague, Bojana Muršič, who highlighted this issue. Humans are the problem. We also note clearly, for example, in the health sector. Unfortunately, we can buy appliances, we can build clinics, we can't make doctors from today to tomorrow. I hope you can help us. Actually, I'm going to have another local debate. In Murska Sobota Alma Mater Europae implements a social gerontologist programme and is eventually named a graduate social gerontologist. We know what gerontology is. I can say the profession of the future for the care of the elderly. But also given that we are the least developed region, the Pomurje statistical region, to this day, so I say, I hope you will help us, it has not been possible for the programme to be awarded a concession. Students pay an annual tuition of between €3 and €4,000. That's a great bite. In this area, we must do something to follow your well-founded demands for personnel. As for the income you mentioned, although it is not a topic now, of course it is, because it is a budget, I would just like you to understand here, if it comes to raising general relief, everyone gets something more, everyone gets something more. At the annual level, when fully established, one salary will remain. What's this all about? It's a workload. The work is too busy, said Milan Martin Cwickl in this year's May interview, which I will sign. That's what the economists are talking about when I was watching a radio show yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know him, and all the others who are here to greet you. We all know that today's debate is schizophrene that it can't be any more. On the right, shout: more public money for everything that can be spent and quickly reduce the inflows with various exemptions, as far as taxes, contributions, and I don't know what else. We all know this isn't working. You don't have to be a doctor of economic science to draw under the line. And under the line at least in some medium-term period, things have to be balanced because they are otherwise falling apart. And that's what we're looking at, the country, or the local community, or family finances, entrepreneurship, whatever. I admire every public investment. I know what problems I had as a minister of the environment and the money space that was intended for Pomura, and 150 million for the construction of the plumbing, there were so many obstacles. Some at the local level, even more at the state level, that in the end they all gave up and shared that money. How much energy did I have to invest in building what needed to be built in the end? I am glad that this continues, because also, thank God, projects have been made. What I want to say is that I also support the construction of new hospitals. Of course, I want efficiency to be comparable to that of others. I'm terrified to find out how expensive medical equipment, not only is it ineffectively used, is essentially eliminated because time depreciation is important but not functional. I'm horrified to find that for an important part of equipment it doesn't even measure the efficiency of consumption. Yeah, we have to, we will, I'm the first to defend state hospitals and health care, but I expect them to work effectively. Because only the state hospitals are saving us at the time of the crisis you brought to the right, right now. State hospitals, once again, state hospitals. Everyone else has turned their backs on the patients at this point. They're saving state hospitals, and that's why I support them. But, of course, I have a problem that's next. When I look at the right side of Parliament, I cannot help but recall how you filed a constitutional indictment against a government that even had a plus in the budget, with imaginary arguments about the ugly things you were saying. I was just wondering if I should do a scan and start reading to you. Since we will be discussing this for another day and a half, I propose to all Members of Parliament and Members in the middle and on the left hand side, let's just get this printed. So people can see who we're dealing with. True, in politics, a word that is spoken quickly disappears, but you only wake it up by reading it. At least we still have magnetograms in the National Assembly. Let us, honourable Members and honourable Members, begin to print and to read. The next thing I want to say is something that's completely unacceptable. Yes, money in all areas is more, and what doesn't work is at least how you think it's wrong if the judiciary works, and we reduce the money. This is an accelerated path in the direction of Hungary, Poland and others, towards autonomous, dictatorial regimes. Let us say this clearly, loudly and understandingly to all. Towards autocratic regimes. How did it even occur to you that when you raise funds for almost everyone, the judiciary, which has to work even more effectively – those who break the law, must be brought into a straight uniform quickly – and you are reducing the funds. That's what you do. And another point, which is a big risk. I think I got a response from the Minister of Justice yesterday - we'll talk a little more about this on Monday - I'm writing to him about the Delegated Prosecutors. Now I can see why you'll do anything to make sure they're gone. This was already pointed out in an article by a lady who sometimes led the prosecution council when she mentioned that she thought cases from Slovenia were on the waiting list. Now that you are watching Croatia, you will do everything to ensure that these prosecutors are not present during your term of office. What you are doing as a hostage has been taken by the Republic of Slovenia, because the direction of the European Union that if you get European funds, you will already work legally and allow control, must be generally acceptable. And this is not being done in Slovenia now. So, respected and respected, a lot of promises, money that doesn't exist, a lot of risks, an attack on the judiciary. Answer me where you want to take the country. I tell you, every day, I count down the seconds, the minutes to cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'll continue to open the list, and then I'll give my word to the Minister first. Please sign up. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. First of all, I must say that we have not reduced any money for anyone, we have not taken anything from any of this budget. I've already said that on the Finance Committee. It is the fact that all users of the budget, both judicial, non-governmental and governmental, have the budget for 2022, which was fixed last year. Some government users, some non-governmental users and judicial budgetary users did not take into account the proposal they made in amending the budget. Here I can say because you are talking about judicial budgetary users that they have €249 million and €53. The amendments proposed another three billion 846 and 21 euros. And that was not taken into account. Nothing was reduced, it just wasn't taken into account. I think that if there is not enough €249 million 789 000 and €53, the government, if it does so then, will take this into account, in any way, and will not allow any judicial budgetary users to act in accordance with their tasks and their mission. So this is 3 million 800 out of almost 250 million. Non-governmental budgetary users, such as the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the State Council, the State Election Commission, the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the National Quality Agency in Higher Education, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Fiscal Council, the Advocate of the principle of equality, and the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, have a budget of 79 million, 674 thousand 745 and have not taken into account what they have proposed in their budget plans, change, that is a total of a million 895. Even if they fail to function here, it is certainly possible for them to get that money. Here, however, the government will ensure that they work in accordance with their tasks, their mission, with what they really are, that they will be independent and independent both judicial users and non-governmental users. I am talking here about the numbers, how many were not taken into account and how much money they actually have. It is said that no one has been reduced in money, but we have not taken these changes into account. Nor have we taken these changes into account with budget users, such as the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Culture, so that they are in a special position from this point of view and nothing else and there is no association here to go in any direction. From this point of view, all these institutions as well as government budgetary users are ensured. The second thing I would like to mention here is that all the revenue and expenditure is in the budget. This is not about violating any constitutional norm. Finally, this was confirmed by the Fiscal Council. On the Committee on Finance, the President of the Fiscal Council said that there was no problem of legal regulation or of any legal dispute between these budgetary acts, which means that they are in accordance with Slovenian legislation. On the one hand, there is an obvious deficit of 4 billion, here Mrs Muršič has read this 4 billion. Look, we're not in a normal financial situation. We're funding covid. If that's what you're saying, we should stop funding all the expenditure related to the co-vid No, no, if you're reading this 4 billion, then I expect you to tell us which expenditure to delete in connection with the co-vid. [[…]] We are not in a normal financial situation because of the epidemic and because the budget is financed by covid and because of the budget for the first time in history, in the past only a special law has been passed to give 130 million to health insurance, otherwise all previous governments have cooled down to finance special health care. Of course, I expect you here, see, on the one hand you're reading too much of a deficit, on the other hand you're saying that we've given too little for culture, at least for some purposes, that there's not enough money for some cultural activity. So now I don't understand very well. We have a shortage of coweed and culture has 240 million. 240 million has been acquired by culture. All previous governments have given up 170 million for culture. From this point of view, it's kind of impenetrable for me to do here. Once again, the country is in debt, the debt per capita is, as you said, 20,000 euros. But here citizens, the population -- it's not their duty not to be so understood, because it's often talked about. It is one of the indicators, international institutions are looking primarily at debt in terms of gross social product, these are also comparisons, and in this regard this debt is actually falling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Good-bye! I will talk mainly about social and health. But now, at the beginning, once again: 10 billion losses, you've grown deficits in three years. And only half of it is a cobbler. Minister, don't fool yourself into obliging and creating a deficit just for a cobbler. Five billion will solve the underlying problems and five for your wishes. And don't say it all over again, I'll show you a hundred times, a bar, or a hundred times, just this green is covid, and in 2022 you have a projected 2.4 billion. Only 640 million for cod, everything else for your wishes. In 2021 out of 4 billion just 2.2 billion for cod, everything else for your wishes. They can be real, they can't be real. We'd probably do something different. But for numbers only, let's not get confused, so the deficit you've created is only half of it is about solving the underlying crisis. Social. There's no way we can agree in our client that the agreement you signed on the salary raise will be passed on to the pensioners. You have raised their pensions by 2.5% this year, you are planning to provide care in their nursing homes, or you have already told them that you will raise almost 6%. The hole in their wallets will be even bigger. That's why we tabled an amendment. And as you have assured, I think that 28 million for local self-government, we expect this amendment to be supported by all those who speak of pensioners, and we also provide money to ensure that care in nursing homes is not raised due to, again, your agreement that we support. We support the agreement to raise wages in health care and social protection for employees, but you can't put the work that goes to pensioners on top of them. Therefore, the call for you to support our amendment and to provide this money within the huge budget of 14 billion. It's supposed to be 37 million. And the other thing I didn't get an answer for the last time on the board was investing in health care. About a month ago, with a big pump and a big consensus here, you passed the Health Investment Act, which weighs about 2 billion in ten years. It's a very accurate timeline for providing this money after years. In the second and third years in force, since the law is already in force this year, it is in 2022 and 2023 that you leave EUR 130 million of holes, according to the law. According to the law, the money for these investments should be provided for almost 200 million. 197,6 million euros, according to the law, in 2022 and 220 million, exactly 219.7, in 2023. Do you have any idea how much money you've secured? 374 thousand. Listen carefully, 374 thousand for the primary level and 142.5 for the secondary and tertiary level in 2022. When we add this up, we get to 142.8 million. This is a special part of the budget, page 24 of 49. And by law, we need to provide 200 million. Where was 60 million lost, Minister, or why is it not guaranteed as much as you wrote down in marriage? If we go into the development agenda plan, it's a document so extensive that people can imagine. I printed the part about health care once again, especially where the story is even sadder, because from special work, this is the second part of the budget, to the development programme plan, this is the third part of the budget, you have lost another 10 million. In the development programme plan, page 175 of 228, I'll show you just like this, there's only 132 million more. Only 132 million more. Where's the difference of up to 200 million? Exactly, up to 197,6. That's the exact number you put in your marriage. Where did this $60 million get lost? Because if they're not in the special work, if they're not in the development programme plan, then they're not. At least sometimes it was so that things had to be transparently shown in these documents. I can go on to 2023, and I'll just say that in 2023 this gap is even bigger, you're missing 70 million, so together 130 million euros. So much about how you proudly passed the Law on Investing in Health, your mouth was full of you, and such a budget is the reason that we were the only ones in our group back then, because we knew that what was written in that law would not be realized. Budgets for 2022 and 2023 show this. Of course, the new government will come, you will switch sides, and then you will call and shout out where this money is, how to provide enough money for health care. But all these sins of yours will not be rectified in the next four years. He won't! Unfortunately. But the law is the law. You wrote those numbers yourself, but now you don't respect them. I would really like a clear answer as to where this money was lost or why it was not provided as much as the law provides. And another, I'll say, in fourteen billion little things, but for a lot of people, it's huge. This is the amendment that we tabled in the SAB Group, an amendment that would increase money to help people in distress, to mental health. This crisis has left a lot of wounds on people, especially on children. I'm asking you to hear the call of experts, not us, clinical psychologists, psychiatrists. These people are asking us to help. It is a few hundred thousand euros that would allow the programmes to be implemented more quickly, so that children can get help faster. A couple hundred thousand euros for the kids. I sincerely wish that, despite the fact that you voted against this, against the help of children, the money that has been collected today is too little. That's not our assessment. This is an assessment of those involved in this assistance. Really, look at what's happening, see how many children in need of help have increased. Look at the increase in suicide rates among adolescents. These are the numbers we need to worry about. So once again, I ask you to support this amendment of ours to help young people, children in distress. This will not cause the budget to fall, it will not fall, believe me, it will not. If you have found 27 million for the municipalities, for the mayors, then even these few hundred thousand euros will not end the country and this budget. Indeed, Minister, I would like to hear where these important 130 million investments have been lost in two budgets. 60 in 2020 and 70 in 2023. I can read you again: 142 million you have provided in a specific part of the budget, this is the Ministry of Health's financial plan, 10 million you lost on the way to the development programme plan because you obviously set out for some other things, even though it says here for investments. There's only 132 million more there, and I was good, and I took into account the higher number when I looked for the difference. But it should be 200 million. 197,6. We haven't been able to get an answer on Saturday, let's please get that answer today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister! Last night I spoke for half an hour and tortured your secretary of state. Because I didn't get the answers to most of the questions, I'm going to have to repeat some things today. I hope that this National Assembly or that we Members are so valuable that you can answer certain questions. And not just because of us, because of citizens and citizens who also follow us and want certain answers. For a little while. I have drawn up a table of the five-year budget period in order to better understand that it is easier to show a certain shift or direction in which this budget goes, where our public debt financing goes. See in 2020 and 2021 there were very high movements on the consumption side, high spending, and above all in 2022, this is a budget that we are also considering today. Of course, then, in 2023, it kind of stops. Let's do this one thing in a row. Yesterday I did not get a response to the revenue side item for 2022, which represents excise duties, that they are practically at a lower level than in 2019, despite the fact that GDP growth after Umar increased all year round, except in 2020, when it fell, and that we are already in 2021 above 2019. But excise duties are even lower than in 2019. And that's for 80 million. The most important item on the revenue side, where I really want an answer, respected minister, income. It's this novel that's in the process that's waiting for us in the coming weeks. But if you'll withdraw it, please tell me. But from budget 2022 it is even clear that you have taken into account that this novelty is being adopted and that income from income will be reduced to the budget for 2022. Of course, 246 million deficits have been calculated. And since you have even slightly reduced according to 2021 and, on the other hand, taking into account GDP growth, then for 2022, less income is taken into account. The second picture is then for 2023, if I can afford to, but then the increase is again, although we know that if this amendment of the Income Law is adopted, then 191 million less revenue in the Treasury is foreseen for 2023. Here I really want you to answer us, not me, but all of us, as well as citizens and citizens. The EU funds, we can only look forward to them. 130% increase is a very good picture. As the Secretary of State explained to me yesterday, almost 250 million of these funds are already foreseen for investments from NOO in 2022. We ended up here on the income side somehow. The revenue side represents a 13.2 per cent increase in 2019. I compare everything to 2019 for a reason, because 2019 was a balanced balance sheet. Not because I want something as bad as last night as my colleague Pogačnik somehow showed me, but that you have some comparison to see where things are going. From one good budget, balanced, in some good, stable period, let's see what's happening to us now. This is said to be a 13.2% increase on the revenue side for 2022, which is somehow consistent with GDP growth. And I'd kind of agree with that, but the individual items are questionable. VAT is also increased by 13.1%, and this is also somehow consistent with the growth of GDP and the growth of the economy, so to speak. But there is a completely different picture on the expenditure side. Let me begin with that, Your Honor. 40.6% increase in all expenditure. Without co-existence of expenditure, which is important, but even a 34.2% increase. At the time of the epidemic, during this crisis, you increased expenditure by 34.2%. That means a deficit that we can't solve in any way. This is that Trojan horse we're talking about that you put it in us for the years 2022 and 2023 future government, whatever it is. Where are the biggest increases? I really want an answer here. Transfers to individuals and households. Of course, you have already raised these items strongly in 2020 and then partly in 2021 and 2022. And then you stopped there. A total of 51.4% increase according to the year 2019. Where's that justification? Why? But it's because the money is enough, people get it, you have to give it to everyone, you'll all get more? Is that what this is about? Where is the eligibility here, where are the economic categories for future growth and development? That's what I want to hear. Goods and services also for 54,3 %. Where's the justification? We have increased goods and services by 54.3% in this crisis. Minister, I'm not talking about covid spending to make it necessary. I'm talking about the current expenditure you've increased by 54.3% in three years. Next item: Investments. Thank God we've raised investment by 131%. It's beautiful. If they're developmental, Of course there's a lot in here. You also stayed here today, and I also listened to certain things yesterday about these investments, but it's important where they're headed. Today, my colleague Horvath also talked a lot about this, but he was only talking about some of these, I'll say, social investments, that we oppose them. Well, that's misleading. The opposition and we in the LMŠ do not oppose investments in health care, in long-term care and where this development and what was previously neglected. We are talking mainly about investments in defence, in the military, which give no growth and no GDP. We are particularly concerned about this high investment in the military at this time of the epidemic. What does that mean, where's the entitlement? Do you know that all this equipment is purchased in these rich countries where this corporate industry of the war industry has it and then sell it to developing countries with such profits that then they can finance their weapons with those profits? Then there is no right for countries to develop forces into such high military funding and then we cannot devote this money to development investments. This is not an apology, and I do not agree with it at all. That's what we're talking about, about these investments, these investments we're worried about. Why, to such a large extent, at the time of the crisis? Well, that's unacceptable. On the other hand, when we want answers to where these development investments are, there is no such thing. The other is health because we know we're malnourished. Okay, $2 billion in ten years, I hope we can do it. But this budget doesn't indicate that we can do it. That's the other dilemma. Investments in infrastructure. Of course, long-term means a lot. But will we be able to cope with this time of crisis, this deficit that we have to solve? That's the problem. So let us be rational, not now talk about each home individually, which is still just on paper, where solutions are left. It was said when we asked where they were, then those homes, if we're talking about, uh, yeah, the projects have to wait. Now I'm going to ask you a specific question. In the government of Marjana Šarc we brought the third development axis to realization. It was a budget with a guarantee, and on the plate we brought your government to build a third development axis. The budget has been adopted, funding provided, you have only withdrawn and invested. Now I ask you what the Minister is doing, you've been in the government for a long time now, like the Sharčev government, where the guarantee for the lower part of the third development axis is now, the lower part of the northern part of Velenje-Sentrupert. How far are you with this guarantee? Are you gonna get him under the roof in two years? We're the northern part of the third development axis, the upper part, we're getting ready and we're working today. That's what we say we're specifically talking about, not just what's on the paper. We are interested in whether these investments in the resilience plan are intended for information systems, for digitisation. Who's it meant to be? Will we finally be able to equip the information system with health care so that we can make a thorough organization, transparent that the minister on the table will have a computer and see through these 23 hospitals what is going on, what is the productivity of individual health teams, how many patients are examined in the individual infirmary according to a network of standards? Is it known how many machines are used to avoid counting for three months, how many fans are there in a hospital? Like I said back then, I'd be in the car counting them in two days. We're missing him here. We would like to hear what we are finally going to do here, not that doctors and sisters are leaving because this organization is so bad. Of course, health care is run by doctors and health personnel, health personnel, and not by other professionals. These are the questions we want to hear in the field of investment. This is also a very important issue in this area, Madam Minister. You have a big joker in this Trojan horse for 2022 and 2023. These are reserves. Never in history have the reserves been so high. On average, 800 million a year. There were 200 million in 2019. What are these reserves for? I say it's your big joker that you're going to use by redistribution where there's not going to be any revenue, where it's going to run out. And it's not such a bad thing to say, but we're interested in what it's meant to be. Well, I don't mean it that bad. Just say the word, explain the matter. Why are these reserves so high at the time? Where do you fear that income will be reduced? Where do you fear that, say, European funds will make less money to cover investments? Are these reserves specifically intended for these transfers, which you have increased by 50%, for the goods and services that you have increased by 54%? Explain it to us in a meaningful way, not so politically. Let us talk in concrete terms, but we will have more than that in this national assembly and also people if we are more open and we will talk about it. This budget, which is at the table for 2022, represents 21.6% of the deficit, is 2 billion 472 out of 640 million more. However, if we give the covid the expenditure away, this deficit is still 16%, according to the revenue achieved. Still 16%. And that's what we're all talking about. That's what we're all alerting. Without co-existence of expenditure, if we put this aside, the budget is unsustainable, the public finances are unsustainable because it cannot bear it, due to a substantial overexpenditure in 2021 and even in 2022. Here's the problem we're afraid of, not the populist one, but now we're against some investments, and I don't know what else. Yeah, we all want it, but the real picture's here. This is also what the European Commission has warned that it is afraid of or has classified Slovenia as one of the most risky countries where the greatest risk is, how the state of Slovenia will be able to cover this in the years to come. My projections, which I made myself, if in the next five years or eight years they did not raise expenditure, if GDP growth were 3%, they would achieve a balanced balance in five years, but if growth were only 2%, they would achieve this in eight years. But I said if the expenditure were not increased at all. Now tell me how you're going to tell public servants that wages don't go up. How will you tell the congregations, local communities, that the averages will not rise? How will you tell the pensioners that we will not cover the difference for the state treasury pension? These are the questions that we are aware of, in the coming governments, that these matters will have to be resolved and dealt with before the unions, before the congregations, that we will defend them. But if the European Commission and European banks close down our debt tents, that's how we know where we are. And even around that interest, let's say, when there's so much populism around it. The interest has already been substantially reduced by our government, Mariana Sharca. The average borrowing rate was 0.5 %. Every government, every finance minister is obliged to do this. When the tranches fall, a new loan should be taken if there are no surpluses, as was the case in 2019, and it is most favourable to try to borrow at the market rate. The situation is now due to this crisis that interest rates were even negative and it is normal for the Minister of Finance and the Government to take advantage of this. Thank God you did this, although some projections also show that even one debt was made at a higher rate than in the time of the government of Marjan Sarca, where the average interest rates were even higher at the time. I'm going to touch on these investments. It was said how much you have in mind. But that's all I'm asking. See, the investments made in 2019 were 938 million; they were below 889 million in 2020. And I understand that, it was the year of this crisis, the epidemic, and it was probably hard to realize all these things. This year 2021, Minister, this is also the question, a billion 513 investments are foreseen. How long will the end of the year be reached? A month ago, I know the number was another 500 million. This is the question when we boast on one hand about what is on paper and on the other hand how to realize how projects are prepared. That is, if it's still on paper, we can't brag, but only after it's realized. But we do know that investment is also the cross because of our debirocratisation and all the other problems we have. Here, Minister, I want you to give these some answers. But before I finish, I'll point it out again. Slovenia draws the worst among all the countries of the European Union in every crisis that comes. Our average GDP on the average of the European Union falls the most. And once we're up to some level, even in 2019 we're getting closer, we're at 80%, and the data for 2020 still show, but I don't think we're going to stay here. Then we fall into such a crisis all the time, and then we get back together and we get closer. On the right-hand side, you are talking about how we will get close to the best, Slovenia will go on the way to achieve the best. Yes, dear God, at least we have to reach the average of the European Union and we are still 20% behind these results. Of course, the goal is to remember the first objective of 2018 when I came to this National Assembly because I listened to these entrepreneurs who set themselves the goal of 60,000 added value, and now we are not even achieving 50. Of course, that is the real goal, but in five, ten years, if we reach 60,000, the other countries that are now ahead of us will also be much higher. It will be very difficult to achieve this average. And let's not paint ourselves and people so that we don't know in a short time what's best for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. I'm sorry. Minister, would you like a word earlier? You've got the upper hand. Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would certainly answer a few questions. First of all, about health investments. One of the sources for financing health investments is also the budget fund. There's now 42 million there. Of course, it is financed by how much is actually spent. So here I think the money for health investments will certainly not run out. The second thing I would like to say in this regard is, above all, this last debate. Look, Slovenia isn't the worst. You said that Slovenia is the worst and that the worst end will come. I have Eurostat statistics here. In 2020, the fourth quarter, gross social product fell. And here I can say that in eight countries, in fact, the gross social product in 2020, the fourth quarter, fell by more than in Slovenia. I wouldn't have listed them here, but it's in Eurostat. However, if I look at the growth of gross social product and rejection, Slovenia is between those leading countries or at least the first half of European countries. This pessimism and this painting of Slovenia, how bad it is, I do not know who benefits, especially if this is not based on some reliable data from international agencies. Second. We're not a developing country. This term may have been used in another country, but we are not a developing country. We are among the developing countries, somewhere in the middle of the European Union, according to all these indicators. We are better in the area of unemployment, more employment, certainly less unemployment, much less, we are among the leaders here. We take care of people if we look at them that way. We're giving them a job. Look at the data. Look at the European data, not the data from the Ministry of Finance. Look at the data of the International Monetary Fund. So from this point of view here, it's not as black as you want to paint this country. Nor are they compared to other European countries. If I'm talking about the world, not at all. Next thing you know, it's about the deficit. There's never been so much investment. We're talking 2.3 billion. If these investments are not available every year in 2022 and in 2023, if we put these investments away, it is said that we simply do not implement them, do not implement them, then the budget is balanced, we are close. But here, the whole of Europe has decided not only to overcome this crisis by making an end to health by spreading covids, but also to invest in green and digital, which will bring a comparative advantage to the whole of Europe in comparison with other continents. Here are these investments, and we can say here that this deficit has appeared throughout Europe, and the whole of Europe will actually reduce this deficit, some more countries. We're here somewhere in the middle. If we are talking about debt, this is an ungrateful topic when we compare ourselves with other countries, how they are indebted to gross social product, according to the Eurogroup, we are in the first half of the less indebted countries. If we look at the structural deficit that the European Commission is calculating and does not take into account in the assessment because fiscal rules do not apply, but we are talking about a structural deficit, we are among the worst, the second worst in statistics. Once again, it is not possible to calculate it, but does not assess the country on this basis, and it will not be in 2022, because it takes into account the emergency situation, the emergency financial situation, not in the legal sense, if you want the constitutional sense of the emergency situation, but the situation where the expenditure is significantly higher due to the crisis. Direct expenditure and, here we can close our eyes or not, even indirect expenditure on this crisis. Mrs Bratušek also talked about this when, as a result, we need more money because people have more mental, psychological problems and it needs to be further financed. Whether or not this cost will now be directly linked to couid, but it certainly also has a partial closure of the country, certain activities and thus has an impact on a different way of life in the sociological sense, psychologically and so on and on children. And that, too, has to be taken into account, I fully agree. We can't just watch the income and expenditure balance, we have to look at the content behind it. Here I agree that we must invest in people. Given that there has already been a debate today that certain professions in the field of health are missing, that certain engineers are missing or engineers are missing in the field of engineering, in the field of information technology and so on, the government has already amended the Regulation on the Financing of Universities, which sets out the criteria on which universities receive money. The criteria have been made so that, above all, social universities have received more money on the basis of these criteria, although we have a lot of unemployed graduates who have finished law, economy, FDV and so on. On the other hand, too little entry in the field of medicine, in the field of information technology and so on. And this is laid down by a regulation that provides for funding for universities. The government changed this and increased the number of places of entry on the computer sciences, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, in medicine and so on, to adjust it. Ten years earlier, however, this was unchanged and lived with it, and no one looked at it. But this government did it when we're talking about these measures. From this point of view, we also invest, if you want, in human capital, so to speak. Perhaps someone will not like the word capital, however, even in people, if you want to, in development, people and in developing to actually provide a profile of people or professions where demand is lacking. And today you know who they are. Another thing about investment. Once again, without these investments, we can have a balanced budget. I have mentioned these investments, and I can list them again, which they are, at different stages. We are certainly working on this by amending the building legislation, by amending the legislation governing the location of individual buildings, by demobilising them to move faster. There are also a number of administrative bureaucratic obstacles, but not at the expense of transparency and legality in granting any building permits and so on. I've already counted them. I'll count them again. There was a call at the Ministry of Education for 40 educational institutions, schools, gyms, kindergartens and so on. There was a demand from the terrain, local communities, municipalities to build more than 100 buildings. And we've increased that. We have increased the call for more than 100 buildings to be built. We have also done so because we have found that in certain schools they leave the roofs, that kindergartens are bad doors. We also found that it had not been invested in these schools, in these roofs, in these buildings for a long time, and the municipalities did not have enough money to finance it because the previous governments did not give them sufficient averages. We have changed this and given more to local communities because they know best which window to fix in a place, in a school and so on. I'm sure he knows better than the minister who's in charge of this area. And that's what we did. Health care is similar. We're talking about the cell hospital, we're talking about the bird emergency center, we're talking about the Shentvid Children's Hospital Center at the Stitch. All of these projects I am talking about are also listed in the third part of the budget. Speaking of roads. Of course, we also have roads and a third development axis we have started to build. We thank your Government for everything you have done with regard to this third developmental axis, but we continue to do so or are opening it anyway. I'm sorry, I'm not close to construction to know how it is. But I do know that the third development axis is built without any problems. There's no problem with guarantees or no problems. The railroad's building too. I wouldn't go back to all these projects that are being built. Yeah, we'll build without the annexes. So we don't listen to what that's like. Or just with the emergency annexes, I'll take the word back. Not with the kind that it used to be. We will certainly examine all of this very carefully, including all the annexes. So from this point of view, be sure that we will study these annexes very carefully. On the one hand, some demand an annex, and on the other hand, they will talk about how the deficits are increasing. Look, there may also be some other practice to be taken here, as has been the practice of the past. Yeah, now you're talking about how we can't do this without an annex. I'm no expert on this, but I'm very restrictive. From this point of view, we're not going to destroy anyone or anything. But everyone's expecting an annex. The Treaties are well known, and a restrictive approach from this point of view will also have to be taken into account here. How are the revenues determined? Revenues are determined on the basis of Umar's indicators and Umar's forecasts. These are those who must also be defined here in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Cousin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Minister, you know well that the budget fund is also shown in the third part of the budget. You've made up your mind. You've run out of money for the marriage you've passed, and you haven't provided that much money. That's a fact. Now I'm going to read you how much money you've spent on which investment, because this says the budget fund. For example, Emergency Centre Ptuj, source budget fund, 292 000 845; Intensive units SB Jesenice, source budget fund, million 867. And I could count it. The budget fund is because it must be included in this part. But read and write, you've provided 60 million less than you should. It is interesting because in these NRPs you also have a project of Investing in Slovenian Health under the Investment Act 2021-2031, this is a 2-billion-dollar project. You know how you provide after years of money: 64 million next year, then 93 million in 2023, then hops to 318 million in 2024, 313 million in 2025 and a billion 200 in 2025 to 2031. That's your plan and your plan. In short, they'll do everything to each other. The fact is, the law says we should provide 200 million this year. You've provided 60 less. And that's what you have to say because you were as smart as this marriage is, and that's why we abstained from this marriage because we knew what you were planning. And that's the way it works. Let's write a lot, let's do a little bit, but everyone else will have to. As for the annexes, Minister, you might really be working without them in the future. You're not doing anything without them today. Dars, led by a colleague from your sister's party, signed an annex for 900 000 euros. You know why? So he could do the deal within the time he promised. That's why he got 900 thousand euros to do the deal within the deadline he promised and signed. That's the kind of annex you sign. Someone can believe that this will not happen in the future. It's like that today. There will also come a moment and a session when we put all these annexes on the table and you will have a severe headache. I believe you don't know as Minister of Finance what's going on in the ministries, but in signing the annexes, the ministers of this government are very, very successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart also wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	To clear up, Minister, my particular question was about the income, you didn't answer me, about the reserves, you didn't answer me. About the third development axis, I was asking you. I know that the third development axis is being built, that's clear to everyone, because we see. I follow, I drive by every day or once a week. I'm asking you about the guarantee and funding Velenje-Sentrupert, how far are you with this. Did you move anything in two years? Because promises were made. This is a specific question. The rest I know is he's building, but we brought everything on the plate. But the point is, let's get something straight. You keep telling me how Slovenia is on the average of the development of the European Union. It's not. GDP is the main indicator that you are sworn to. And here we are at 80%, your honor's minister. We're still 20 percent short of reaching an average. That's it. What, though, does the European Commission warn us about the structural deficit, the indebtedness, why has it classified us as the most risky country? Once again, because we owe ourselves too much in 2020, 2021 and 2022. And you answer to me how it is now growing in these two quarters. Look, I'm afraid it's dead cat syndrome, because we're in too much debt, and that's why we're causing this growth now. In the years 2022 and 2023, this will be the result of all of this. As a result, I believe that experts in this area of the European Commission and international banks have written down that we have now become a very risky country, given how we will cover this structural deficit. That's what I'm talking about. Since we are considering the budget for 2022 and 2023, you are continuing to talk to me about these two quarters now that this growth has emerged due to the high debt and the high added covid and so on. We don't get along here. Please, let us be concrete and specifically answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Andrej Chernigoj has the floor, Mr Marko Bandelli is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Andrej Shircelj, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am very, very glad that I came in line after all these procedural procedures, but I will try to discuss and hold a sort of red thread on the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. However, I regret that it was not my turn to discuss yesterday. For me, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the most important document in the National Assembly or the most important document for the whole country, as we see, on the basis of this budget, which investments the country will also be sailing towards. In my personal opinion, I think it's a developmental direction. Before I start with the budget itself, we must all be aware of and agree on one. At least I hope we agree that we are still in the time of an invisible enemy. Unfortunately, the invisible enemy is still among us, although unfortunately some still deny it. Unfortunately, we still haven't learned what the virus is. This is not about who will be better, who will be faster and who will be more liked, but whether we will follow the rules or not, or whether the same rules that are successfully introduced in other countries around us are able to hold on or be able to unify ourselves, Slovenia and Slovenia. That's kind of my theme for today. As far as the budget we are considering today is concerned, in my personal opinion, the budget is project-oriented. Of course, it coincides with pre-election time, the elections will be next year. The great criticism of the opposition is that the expenditure side is larger than the revenue side. I agree with that. But if we look closely and the Minister here has repeated several times today, we see that the budget is already positive if we delete all the investments that are somehow oriented towards the future. The whole of Europe - I would ask if you would not laugh because I was very much focused on your debates yesterday - foreign countries, the United States of America and China have decided in the same way that investments will try to reverse the trend of growth. If we look into the past a little bit, and now I hope that you will not laugh here, we can compare the current crisis with the crisis in the past and how countries have dealt with this in different ways in the past. Let's say a new deal in response to the worst economic crisis in the United States. How did they save, dear colleagues and colleagues? But now we're quiet? Investments. On the other hand, we have Marshall's plan, it's a program to rebuild Europe. Investments, too. And finally here we have a recovery and resilience plan, I would call it Ursula Plan, including with investments for the future. The past governments have invested heavily in soft content in the past. I now claim and also think that we are working and investing in tangible projects that, on the one hand, reduce unemployment and, on the other, raise economic growth. When we look at the data announced by the European Commission in July Slovenia, it predicts 5.7% economic growth for Slovenia, so it is almost 20% higher than the average forecast for the European Union. These are numbers that are very clear. On the other hand, as far as debt is concerned. In 2020, government debt service expenditure amounted to 1.7 GDP, representing a decrease of more than EUR 30 million compared to 2014. On the other hand, these data show that Slovenia is a stable country, that banks are also stable. By bringing all these figures together, this means that although Slovenia owed itself, like all other countries in the European Union and even around the world, Slovenia has increased its debt in relation to GDP less than the average of the euro area countries and also the European Union as a result, so we can conclude that Slovenia owed less than the average euro area country, this being true to the government and the coalition has succeeded in achieving over-average results with a sub-average debt. As far as the budget is concerned. The budget plan for 2022 and 2023 plans over €2.2 billion of investments mainly in health, infrastructure and raise the averages for municipalities for 2022 from €645 to €647. This means more than €37 million for the congregations. My thinking, which is why I will also support the changes in the budget, that those who vote against the budget against the higher average will also vote that the citizens of your municipalities will receive less money, which therefore means less investment. I will be very happy to take a look at the result of the vote. I would like to stop in two more areas, which I am somehow covering. The first is the Department of Defense. I am pleased that the budget here is around EUR 800,000, which is EUR 105 million more than in the budget adopted. I am pleased that €12 million is being increased to almost €70 million in total by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, we have already restored social security to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces after 45 years, thanks to the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. I'm going to ask here the question of how much security and the defense of our own country costs to answer that question. For us, for the new Slovenia, this is a very important issue, and this also restores dignity to the Slovenian army. The second item, Ministry of the Interior, is migration, international protection and integration. If we look here, I come from the Municipality of Illyrian Bistrica, which borders the Schengen border, and I am very happy to have all three common items, this is true migration, international protection, integration, the external border and the implementation of the rules on foreigners and the third item on migration, international protection, their integration in this budget is almost €7 million more money. This means that this money can be better dealt with not only by the Republic of Slovenia but by the whole of Europe, when we see the problem now in Poland. Here I would also like to highlight the area of culture, the largest budget in the Republic of Slovenia, I am very pleased that it will be here, at least I wish that a cultural heritage that is failing in the past, that it will provide itself with the necessary resources in the Ministry of Culture, so that it will end. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned. I am pleased that there are 274 million more in the adopted budget: permanent mobility, road transport, more resources for infrastructure. Here I can say that I am pleased that the countryside is developing, schools, nursing homes and infrastructure. Now I would like to say a few projects that are under way and will be under way: construction of a railway station, two circulars in the municipality of Hrpelje - Kozina, this is not my municipality, but it is in the neighbourhood, also the mayor comes from another political spectrum, but look what is invested in infrastructure, and it remains there. A contract of approximately €10 million has been signed. We ourselves know that there is great traffic there, that traffic between Starode and the Fan is almost 20,000 trucks a month, and this road is very busy. Investing in local and, above all, rural areas. And the second historical moment for the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica is that a contract for the construction of the connecting water pipeline Ilirska Bistrica-Rodik was signed. The project is estimated at €36 million and will essentially be supplied with drinking water in 53 settlements, where 10 000 600 people live, and this new water system will provide 272 people. And these are projects that are tangible to people, and I am pleased that the budget is investment-oriented and will help. Finally, in this government, we are also aware of the importance of the Postojna - Jelšane motorway, which I am pleased to say, I believe it is the only economically justified new route of the highway in Slovenia and I am pleased that this is where it goes. Budget itself: Green transition, digital transformation and sustainable growth. But I'd like to mention two more things for the end. I am pleased to support the resolution of the water supply in the Anhovea area. I hope that in this area something will also be done by the local community, the current mayor, that this will also be known in their budget. And finally, here I would really like to give a replica to my colleague Vojk Starović, the plan for recovery of resistance has never been rejected. We forwarded it, then we completed it, and this supplement was accepted. He's never been rejected. I am a member of the Committee on European Affairs and your own insinuations are not only acceptable to me, but to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Please come to the Committee on European Affairs at some point, follow this committee and then comment. Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	I'm pleased, Mr. Chernigoy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I spoke last night. Mr. Chernigoy, I'm very pleased that you've been happy all day. But when you talk about everyone else, and when I see you know everything, then you've been asking a lot of questions about Anhove. In the last three years, the local community has taken great steps for Anhova to have and have good conditions for drinking water in Anhove. I know that you now want to attack the local community because of your thinking, but the mayor has taken huge steps and I believe that with the help of the country's money, he will be able to ensure that the projects are completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Reploco still wanted Mr Starovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. You will all remember in this Chamber, or even further, if you are reminded, we have discussed this plan, the text that was in the public debate. And this one was torn apart. Criticism has also come from the European Commission. Then a new plan was drawn up that was adopted, which I commended for being in line with the European Commission's guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Now we're at the end, I think we've been talking about this budget for 10 hours now 2022, and I'm not going to talk about the whole history of a bear because it's out here. However, I will focus on one problem that has been mentioned all the time, but probably people or, in particular, certain Members, especially the Minister, I am surprised that he does not understand the difference between investment purposes and the development budget. We have a different opinion here for 180 degrees. And I don't know if it's that hard. Just so you know, I'm not disturbed by the investment that's supposed to be in here. There's a lot of investment, because you said so yourself about 2.3 billion investments. Investments that are mainly in infrastructure is the first thing. Old age homes are also investments. They're absolutely necessary. Really, thank you, we can say everyone in here and the whole of Slovenia will say that it is absolutely necessary. It's all right, and we're here for that sort of thing. But homes for the elderly, fixing the roofs at schools, equipping the military, and I don't know what else, it has nothing to do with developmental orientation. Is that clear or not? Is it clear what we're saying or what we're not saying? You're always bragging about how much investment is in here. They're real, because they're really huge. I'll tell you what, I've been looking into where all these investments are planned. Circles, roads, schools, all sorts of things, and that's right with each of your Members. Exactly every Member of yours has received his project, on which you have placed a green light. That's how you're campaigning for the next election in five months. That's what you have to say. And I'll tell you more. I looked at exactly why you have the votes of the Polarar non stop. He's got exactly two projects in Kentucky, one school and one museum, and I don't know what else is, so you guaranteed it. Same from nationalists, same from minorities, because they're very good projects for bilingual projects. Great. We support everything, but that's what you buy people. You buy people with trifles to leave a disaster behind. That's what we're talking about here. Look, my colleague Starović had a wonderful discussion with me earlier. It's beautiful. Our colleague Bratuškova always tells you about numbers, she was born for it. You too know what this is about, and I also understand, and I repeat, there is no problem with the investments that will be made. It is not a problem because it is understood that they are absolutely necessary. We will also pass this wave, which we understand where these investments will go, as each of your discussers, from SDS and from Nova Slovenije, boasts how the final investment will be made on their side. One by one, if we look at the magnetograms, you'll see how they brag about it. Okay. On who? At the expense of the two billion and a half deficits we have in the budget, this must be understood. You're talking about the Recovery and Resistance Plan. It has nothing to do with what's here in this budget, I'm sorry, Minister, but that's something that needs to be understood. The Recovery and Resistance Plan is intended to listen to the needs of businesses. This is the first thing that doesn't mean doing a facade roof, as your Minister Cernač said, which gave me no idea how much money for part of the energy recovery. All right, here too is necessary and we are satisfied, but this does not mean listening to the needs of businesses to give them a job is another purpose. The funds are intended for the country to strengthen the growth and development of businesses to allow companies to think differently. These are recovery and resistance plans. Support an eco-system in companies. Do you know what that means? Start thinking green in companies, support these investments in companies. These are recovery and resistance plans. Don't buy for 500 million oshkoshev. It's not an investment, it's not a developmental attitude. Is that clear? It's about other things. Co-financing of development incentives, so it is necessary to understand and encourage industrial purchasing chains in particular, here they are, here is a recovery and resilience plan. I know what this is about, because I was there, and I saw it, and I read it because I'm curious. But all that I've figured out to achieve a green and digital transformation, with this green digital transformation, was foreseen for that. Where do you see this in this budget? You said it yourself. And I'm not talking about my colleague Chernigo, who probably doesn't even know what growth and development means, but he's forgiven for making the school his own. We can't say here right now, hey, he's not an economist, he needs a little more help to understand. There are no roads, intersections, circles, third development axis.The third development axis is supposed to be because in this way we can develop a whole area that will then invest and develop, I agree here. [[…]] But you have spoken to me personally before about some schools, holes Here you have to give the opportunity to give municipalities more than they should be, and for the ability of that part of the grants that are refundable to go to the rehabilitation of certain of their facilities because schools and facilities are municipal. [[…]] They have therefore also received more resources for this; they do not boast in the budgets for infrastructure projects. We are not talking in this budget absolutely nothing, we are not talking about development, growth and development. No, we're not talking, I'm sorry, but we're talking about investments – gratefully, because I say so – but not mixing two completely different concepts. That's what you need to understand. And don't tell me nonsense here, because we'll see in 2023 what's planned. I saw the amendments, I reviewed the amendments, yesterday the amendments confirmed by the government. And like I said the last day, because it's written exactly, it's supported, it's not opposed, it's supported, it's not opposed. 99 percent opposes. I mean, it's not supported, we say what we want, because it's always the same goal. They won't accept. And this one from Anhove was only one of the two main amendments to Anhovo. One, one! And the government supports it. And that library, thank God, at least 50 grand, but it's nothing. But all the other amendments are adopted precisely to press the plus here into the budget. Our fear here is those two billion and a half, Minister. Don't brag about infrastructure projects, don't brag about us being in debt, we're in a crazy debt. What's the interest rate tomorrow for all of this, for that inheritance? Because it's an inheritance that you let go. It's an inheritance. What's the interest rate going to be? That's a big question. We'll talk about it later. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's still interest in the debate? [[Yeah.]] I can see that. That's why I'm opening a list of applications. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word "magic." Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, Mr. Jože Lenart is preparing for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I did not want to abuse the replica earlier, so now I have applied for the debate and especially because, in such statements as the SAB has stated, it is unacceptable to transfer these costs to the caregiver because of the higher salaries of the employees. Such a statement is pure duplicity! And why is it so double-crossing? As it took place in January 2020, this is said to be under the government of Marjana Sarca, in which there was also a SAB, minimum wages have been raised and these minimum wages have also affected the price rises in the homes. And what did you do then? At that time, you passed these costs on to the caregivers or to their relatives and what you want to say today, but it is unacceptable. Set up a mirror of what you did then and what you're saying today. That's one. Secondly, when asked why only 10 million are earmarked for investment in homes for the elderly, you said that it is more targeted than in previous years. However, this government has made a developmental budget, and this is also the case today, and I hope that together we will support it in order to be able to swim out of this cycle marked by the epidemic. This deception and the words to be made clear to some Members that they do not speak and know the budget because of their education, which is very low and vile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Jože Lenart, and Mrs Mateja Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have another matter to re-establish today, or somehow answer, because yesterday the Secretary of State who replaced you here has raised one dilemma. I performed these projections on the Committee on Finance, which, of course, I prepared from these budgets for all five years, and I also represented this commitment and yesterday it was said that this projection was very questionable. I'd like to tell you again how this assignment is made up. Three parts. The first part is a projection of the debt from the budget itself as such. Level one. The second level is indebtedness, of course from the state sector, all four cash registers, and the third level is the country's total external gross debt. This is very important because the indebtedness of the population, entrepreneurship and the financial sector as a whole is also involved. Why am I talking about this? Today, this matter is quite stable, but we know what happened in the first decade of this millennium. Just in the time of your first government 2005-2008, the economy was in debt for 25 billion, and this was the country's total external gross debt. And then what happened in 2013? That no three came, we carried a large part of it through the bank hole into the country's budget or sector and therefore all three levels should be monitored. How did I introduce this? For 2019 the picture is clear. The closed balance sheet, revised and I took these figures into account, and the fiscal world used the same, and I came out of it. The year 2020 is over. According to your information, it's all revised, all the numbers are still there. The question is, of course, the first year of 2021. For 2021, I have taken into account your projection, which I have presented last time, which you have put up, but we all agree — both you and I — and no one can know how this year will actually end around the debt. It has to wait. I will be happy when February, when this matter is concluded, to include the exact number then in this projection and to see the whole picture. Of course, every year it is clear that the debt is increasing than the budget deficit. This is also a fact that it is a complex situation and is a host of other facts. Then it's taken into account what's going on with the net debt, we're talking. It is clear that when some obligations fall, you take a new loan, of course at a lower interest rate, which is the responsibility of the finance minister, and then the new loan is replaced by this; of course, in these years, when there is no surplus, there is no other liability than a new debt plus a new debt for deficits. However, I have highlighted every time I spoke about 2022 and 2023, from the budgets that we are considering, but I have only taken on the deficit and nothing more. What will happen is that we have to wait for another situation, for even from some whole external gross debt debt may depend on what this figure will be. It can even be smaller. In 2020 you also rented some loans as pre-financing for 2021. All these things need to be taken into account, but let's not get involved, because people find us hard to understand. But I still insist that the debt to the citizen was 31. 12. 2019 15 000 114. I've taken the population over this period of 2 million 100. But I rounded up the same number of residents every year. Today, this debt per capita has already exceeded 20,000,525 per capita. At the end of 2023, after this projection, to take an additional debt out of deficit alone, already exceeds €23,000 per capita. This means a 53 per cent increase. On the other hand, from Umarje, when we take GDP growth, from 48.4 billion 2019 to 56.1 billion in 2023, as all of these things are foreseen – and from these, too, you came from budgets – is only a 16% increase. That's the real picture. Once again, I would like to point out who will assure us that wages will also go up 53 per cent during this period, so that we can then say that the debt is actually the same somewhere. I'm backing up. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is your service, Government. Is that right? And the latest official information on the country's quarterly debt. 6. 2021 was already 39 billion and half. This is said to have worked very hard on these projections and taken some numbers that were supposed to hold. Of course, then it is necessary to wait specifically for the outcome. It's said to be quite a real picture of this presentation I gave. But I'll be happy to replace these numbers when it's done and the picture will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr Lenart, I would like to give you some more information here. You probably know that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget always sets out the maximum amount of the State's debt. So the Government or the Minister of Finance here does not owe as much as it would owe him, but this National Assembly with the Budget Implementation Act determines what the maximum amount of the debt is. Of course, it is also always clear in the balance sheet how much debt is on the one hand as far as possible and on the other hand also repaid this debt, so that we have these net results here. That's the first thing I'd like to add to your analysis. Second. You were talking about so-called gross debt, including corporate debt, public debt. Look, the government doesn't have the tools or the powers to influence individual duties. Whether an individual is in charge of buying a matter, a bicycle, or a car, or anything else, that is a matter for an individual. Just like it was about businesses. We also know that we have an open market in terms of capital, which means that companies, individuals can have accounts and can be indebted, while of course these accounts are reported to the Financial Administration anywhere. From this point of view, of course, it is necessary to take into account the arrangements in force in Europe in this regard. Of course, the European Central Bank has a role to play in this debt, but only in terms of regulating the amount of money on the market, is said in the euro area and in terms of interest rates. Of course, this is already the debate here, what interest rates the Government has; neither the Minister of Finance nor any other minister, nor the President of the Government has – and so on – to regulate loans, loans from individuals and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	It's a professional debate. Budgets are very important, and I don't know why you're wondering. Dear Minister, yes, it's nice of you to point out the ceiling of your debt. That's why I'm even more concerned because this hole, I'm afraid it's going to overcome this problem, and that's when it's going to break out in particular. And this entire debt of the country, gross debt – I mentioned it because history has shown what happened. The 25 billion that emerged at that time in this debt, the entrepreneurship in particular and the financial sector, then a large part of it has been overturned by taxpayers today. And when the secretary of state said yesterday, yes, Member, I know you came from entrepreneurship. With this, she wanted to say how I now get to know the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, the principle is exactly the same, the nuances are the ones, but one nuance is a very severe, severe difference. In entrepreneurship, if you plan to finance yourself, the entrepreneur carries — whether it is a shareholding company or an entrepreneur or a state or whatever — himself bears this risk and sinks this company if it has been calculated. But the state budget, in practice, we know that every stupidity, every mistake we make, is borne by taxpayers. That is why we need to be even more responsible for this work. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! If I could just summarize for a moment. Each year around this time, this is how we face the budget this year, with budgetary challenges. This year we have little different starting points than we have seen in recent years. However, we must not forget that no matter what government is in power, each government sets its own priorities. These priorities follow the objective set by the ruling government. The activities and actions of the former government in a more efficient economy and the general state of public finances gave us optimism at the time and seemed to ease decisions when the previous budget was adopted. And I often wonder if that's true. Is that completely true? I would not hope to say this, perhaps the budget preparers in the time of the fat cows have faced additional problems, such as, for example, because all the users have sought to correct, with the next budget, the injustices that have occurred in the past, where their funds have been dwindling, and that in the future, when the recession comes again, they will ensure the best possible conditions for funding. However, as we know from practice, this is not so easy. In fact, the budget must be oriented over the period of convergence by removing restrictions from previous periods and, on the other hand, it must be, necessarily, development-oriented; it must be geared towards proactive action in the future when a lower economic growth or economic crisis is foreseen. Today we are not yet facing an economic crisis, but we are facing a very severe health crisis, which we can expect to follow, I stress, also an economic crisis. The European Union is also aware of this and, because the whole of Europe is aware of it, the European Union has decided to help, to remedy the direct economic and social damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic. For example, the next generation of the EU is one such exceptional and temporary instrument for recovery of more than €800 billion and represents a mechanism by the European Union for recovery and resilience in the Member States. In short, we have a lot of work to do and a decision to take the right measures to remain a social rule of law that will be friendly to all citizens. And that we are currently in a situation where no government has been in place in the 1930s, this indicator is precisely this European instrument Next Generation of the EU, because the whole of Europe is aware of what will follow after the end of the health crisis. Some of us have already been taught by history, and it has also taught us that tightening the belt is not the solution and that if we tighten the belt and scrape and work only on savings, there is no development, then there is an even faster economic crisis. Today, if we are talking about whether it is a historical budget by amount or not, this is not important in this context, but more importantly, the fact that the entire budget structure is based on variable assumptions, such as projected economic growth, projected tax inflows and so on. This, of course, is on the revenue side. With the spending side, we know what it's like to meet a variety of rebalans during the summer. As has already been said, the quality and effectiveness of our budgets depend on other factors in the wider economic environment. We depend on a global and European economy that is slowly cooling down, climate change resulting from various natural disasters, and a number of other factors. I am pointing to the rate of economic growth because it is assessed by various actors, and its forecasts are quite variable, and I do not believe that there is today any expert who would know in this situation that this government is in, at this moment, accurately predict. Budget documents show government priorities, such as development, social, infrastructure and so on. According to my assessment, the draft budgets according to the state of the country and the needs for public money are planned correctly, as they will allow for stable functioning and development in the future. When we talk about different governments, about different budgets, it is very interesting to talk about governments that have already ruled and funded projects, pilot projects, resolution of bank holes, rescue banks and so on and so on, not to repeat what colleagues and colleagues have already said in this debate many times, then the government is obviously the most successful for some. The government is the most successful or successful government is also the government, which in the record budget has not earmarked a single item for the rehabilitation of pensioners' homes, for the construction of a nursing hospital, for the construction of a hospital. Worse still, the government has not dedicated any item to the rehabilitation of any, no matter, wild landfills located everywhere in Slovenia. More than that, they have not even made it possible for us to start somewhere with a list of how we will someday deal with these kind of rehabilitations. In short, the government, which did not want to raise the averages for the municipalities, believes that certain colleagues are more successful than the government, which is actually earmarking money for people in the budget, providing funds for the construction of roads, railways, hospitals, homes of pensioners and so on. Yeah, and they say they're candy, that's voice shopping, that's just pre-election candy. I can, I'll say I can agree, but this government actually does. And what do people have more? What do people get more? Is it that projects are paid to spend money on projects, or that millions are spent on pilot projects, that investments are driven, that there is no realisation, and that millions are also spent, or that millions are spent on actual projects, that is, roads, railways, hospitals and so on? It has also been heard many times in the debate that we will take the resources of certain NGOs that this government has given nothing to firefighters, that it has given nothing to mountain societies. Look, we're gonna take money from the mountain people? You know, I don't know where my colleagues were sitting, those who said that at this meeting this year, because exactly this government has adopted a systemic source of funding, the first systemic source of funding for mountain routes. That government. This government shut down firefighters, mountain rescue services, lobsters, cave rescue services, civil protection on motor vehicles. In the PKP, this government committed to co-adjunct – according to those who received the prize, worked on their own time, helped civil protection – to receive this supplement also by firefighters, including mountain rescuers, including lobsters, when they were working on interventions. And when we listen, this government has also arranged for the insurance of voluntary firefighters so that now the firefighters can be all insured. Yes, you can tell me that this is not the subject of the budget, but you know when people listen to it and when they listen from the mouth of Members and Members that the government takes these people, it is necessary to say that this is not true because this government has given them this. Respected citizens and citizens, the Fishermen have an excellent proverb that says: “What I have promised you does not yet mean that I have already given you.” That's why I'm asking you to judge for yourself. Spending millions on projects that are never realized or spending millions on building roads, hospitals, nursing hospitals for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's still interest in the debate? I see you don't. That is why I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft amending budget will be held tomorrow, 18 November, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Special Part of the Draft amending the budget. Anybody want a word? I see you don't. We're closing the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 November 2021. We are therefore transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Finance and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. And I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on the current budget reserve and an amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you need to read everything for a magnetogram. We are moving on to the discussion of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance, as well as the amendment of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, unrelated and SD. Mr Boštjan Koražija wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Increasing funds for international development cooperation is a prerequisite for dealing with the consequences of the epidemic in partner countries, in accordance with the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed increase in resources proposed in Levica, as well as in other coalitions, will allow for enhanced activities in providing official development assistance called ODA through programmes and projects implemented by civil society organisations in partner countries, in particular sub-Saharan Africa. As a result of the covid-19 epidemic, poverty has increased dramatically at global level. According to the World Bank, the number of people living in extreme poverty has increased by more than two dollars a day in 2020 by as much as 97 million. At the time of the covid-19 epidemic, when the countries of the global south are even more exposed to the effects of inequality and climate change, forced migration and the rise in hunger, the Republic of Slovenia should urgently increase funding for the implementation of programmes and projects in the countries of the global south. By increasing the funds, the Republic of Slovenia would contribute to the fulfilment of the commitment to allocate 0.33 per cent of gross national income to ODA by 2030 and to the commitment to implement development cooperation in accordance with internationally accepted principles of development efficiency, thus contributing to reducing global poverty and inequality. By raising funds for ODA and increasing the presence in the partner countries of the global south, it would contribute to mitigating the negative social and economic consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. We propose that the funding line for the epidemic amounts to €2 million, transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the heading International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to discuss the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Preparedness of the Rescue and Assistance System and the two amendments of the LMŠ Group. Mr. Lenart has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain two amendments in this context, which then also follows that I do not advertise twice. Of course, it is voluntary firefighting companies or voluntary firefighters and, above all, insurance. In this way, the provision of fire insurance funds, in line with the FFRO, will actually relieve the budgets of the municipalities. This is said to be the burden of the local level insurance to ensure, of course, that the proper insurance of firefighters, equipment and infrastructure used to carry out its noble activity is ensured. This needs to be definitively resolved and, of course, it is more appropriate that this insurance is covered from the country's budget than from local communities, because there is now a major problem. The second amendment, which follows, is also intended for voluntary firefighting companies, but for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and construction of their firehouses and the restoration of equipment and in each amendment we allocate EUR 2 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the amendment of the parliamentary groups SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enterprise Innovative Environment and Promotion and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Promoting the technological development of the economy and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Mr. Igor Peček wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With the amendment tabled, we want to increase resources on the sub-programme Promoting the technological development of the economy. The reason for this is relatively simple. The budget has fallen by half a million in the draft, which we do not think is rational. It is true that these funds can also be obtained under the National Resistance Recovery Plan, but we believe that, at a time when the Republic of Slovenia should work intensively for the so-called technological breakthrough, the decline of these funds is half a million incomprehensible. We are just the opposite; Slovenia should invest even more in research and innovation projects both in order to develop new products, services and processes that have proven to create high added value and thus strengthen or allow for faster development, balanced development and also support the rapid economic growth strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting the sub-programme on Renewable Energy and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network and the three amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Mines and the rehabilitation of mining damage and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendments of SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Very briefly, I would only explain one of the two amendments or four amendments we tabled in the opposition. The first, or second, will be explained by my colleague Han after me, the first, or ours; we have tabled with our co-signatures at the initiative of the local community. It's about rebuilding or upgrading, building a plumbing in three stages. To this end, the municipality has dedicated half a million euros to the municipality of Kanal ob Sochi. One of the two stages, three stages, has already been completed. It seemed very important to us that at the time when drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution or the use of drinking water, the National Assembly and the State would therefore engage in a direction to make drinking water more accessible to more accessible areas, such as the mountain area of Kanal ob Soča Municipality. It is 500 households, two amendments or one amendment, divided into two time periods for 2022 and 2023, amounting to EUR 800 000, which would allow for the upgrading and final construction of water and allow for the use of water for those citizens and citizens who have been fighting for it for decades. So it is that we want active participation by the country in solving the important problem in the demographically threatened area and more difficult to access for such investments. Therefore, the local community urgently needs the assistance of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste water management and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Primaj Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much and very much! The amendment, which is on the table, colleagues and colleagues, comes to the aid of thousands of 100 people living in the area of Soča Canal Municipality and who do not have the provision of drinking water. It is absolutely and urgently necessary for these residents and residents to provide a new, independent source of drinking water to be provided by connection to the water system, Mrzlek. Construction costs are very low in the eyes of the entire budget, in one year 500 and in the other year 700 000 euros. The fact is, in the Municipality of Kanal ob Soči, there are a thousand 100 people who are supplied with water by Salonit Anhovo, who has its own environmental disputed practice, and the problem is, of course, that people and residents are actually dependent on a private water source that can be used at any time to blackmail the municipality for blackmailing residents by Salonit Anhovo. Thus, without a new, independent primary water source, the municipality cannot provide safe and independent drinking water supplies at all. But access to drinking water is, by the way, a right set out in the constitution. The link to the water source of Mrzlek is therefore a solution that provides reliable quality drinking water and is technically feasible and time-consuming within two years, which is also proposed by this amendment, which provides the means to connect to the water source of Mrzlek and to exclude disputed pumping, environmental and health-related pumping, water for residents and residents of Anhovega from Soča, which is exposed to both transport and industrial pollution and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Matjaz Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I hope that when we take care of water resources, clean drinking water is not an issue of prestige either between civil society or between the local community or between us Members. We, the Social Democrats, absolutely support all the amendments when it comes to the rescue of pure drinking water in the Kanal Congregation. And here I have to say that in the last two or three days, I've gone deeper and I've been a little bit curious about what's on this thing. I must say that I am sometimes disappointed when some people point to the local community and say that the local community has done nothing at this time. The local community has done a number of things in the last three years since its leadership in Tina; for the first time, the building permit for the previous amendment, what Mr German has explained, and perhaps one part of the inhabitants of the Canal will come to clean drinking water, which, of course, are not as media-exposed as it was, as my colleague Siter said, and I absolutely agree with him. In the meantime, I know that the congregation has already taken quite a few steps at the waterworks itself, and I believe that the budget item will help the congregation. But we are all aware, those who worked in the local community, that obtaining a building permit, obtaining all consent is not just a matter, I will say, of the congregation, but also a matter of the state. I hope that everyone here will come together in this direction to get clean drinking water in the Canal and that some will not work from this political story, but that we will all save people. Thank you very much. We will absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Unless I close the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for training and education, as well as the amendment of the left-wing Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to promote the development of NGOs and civil and social dialogue and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Mr. Jože Lenart wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	For a little while. Look, the government takes NGOs, and of course it's unacceptable and unacceptable if I put it that way. In this case, we want more resources to be devoted to civil and social dialogue organisations. That is why we want this amendment to provide EUR 216 000 848 additional resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Monetary Social Assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD and SAB groups of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, we turn to the National Assembly in fact with one call after social sense, if you wish, or after adjustment, to re-regulation of the parameters of the social state. Why? According to the 2021 Realisation Assessment, the funds for monetary social assistance will be reduced by 32 million in 2022, as yes – so we are recording economic growth and recording a lower unemployment figure, which is a number that is impeccable. However, it is also necessary to include in this equation the fact that the prices of basic living needs are increasing and, consequently, monetary social assistance, even though there is a lower or future number of basic living needs, still needs to be increased. This should include perhaps the most up-to-date rise in energy, which, as a result, affects the rise in all other vitalities of life. In addition, we have already tabled in the Parliamentary Procedure a new Law on Social Security Benefits, which comes with one major solution in the area of fixing the amount and minimum wage and monetary social assistance. Indeed, the existing criteria for calculating the minimum cost of living at all are outdated. Minimum cost of living is the basis for the calculation of social transfers and minimum wage. The latest calculation, which is still in force in the current regulation, runs to 2015 and 2016. In Levica we propose that the matter be done more frequently and that the minimum cost of living be calculated again by 1. 1. 2022 and then apply further and are calculated more frequently. With a view to providing funds for this law, we propose to provide 40 million for the social state at the expense of an area that does not need an additional 40 million euros at this point, which is weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Bojana Muršič also wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. We propose that Social Democrats and the SAB, with the amendment, provide an additional EUR 30 million in the budget to help the energy poor in this winter. In fact, yesterday we talked for four hours about energy poverty, which all the struggle to knock on our doors of these most vulnerable groups, because rising energy, fuel, fuel and more and more other necessities of life undoubtedly means that the country will have to jump to help the most vulnerable in the coming years or in the coming year. And not only to those who normally receive this regular financial social assistance, but also to those who are poor, I will God damn well tell the employees. Because if two employees receive minimum incomes and have two children, they often find themselves in so much trouble that they simply cannot pay any more of the cost of living and are often in the dilemma of either taking care of heating and electricity or buying food. That's gonna be a lot of pressure. Yesterday, it was pointed out that such citizens and citizens could apply for social assistance, for extraordinary social assistance – otherwise I would very much like such people to be as few as possible in the coming year – but if such families were to find themselves in such a difficult situation that they would not be able to pay energy and heating costs to knock on the door of social work centres, to ask for extraordinary social assistance and to somehow survive this trauma that would happen to them. Again, I do not want many of these families to be, but in view of the situation, given that more and more people are knocking on our door of office, because they are facing problems and they are explaining them to us. I have to say that many times I stay in tears when, in fact, I see that they just can't cover right now, what's going to happen, given that they're lifting energy, and it's kind of hard to pay for all these costs unless the state takes over the system. However, if system-wide funding is to be resolved, additional social assistance must be provided so that people can really survive the winter and live as much quality life as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Jože Lenart wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Allow me to explain as many as 10 amendments relating to the same subject matter. What's this all about? See, at the time of the epidemic, ventilation systems have proved to be practically necessary and mandatory and would solve many, both for long-term care, for the area of home for the elderly, for the health institutions and especially for the educational institutions, both at preschool, at preschool level, for primary schools, for secondary schools, for higher education, for the field of work centres, for social protection programmes. In all of these areas, we are proposing the same solution to these ventilation systems, which would then, of course, allow less lockdown, greater participation in learning and training programmes, less disease and, of course, less death at the end. For all these areas, we are earmarking a good EUR 45 million to deal with this. That is why it is much easier to expect the following epidemics, which will follow us, even though we will overcome them, then it is of course a permanent standard that air vents in all future buildings are also mandatory to make it easier to cope with this crisis that we are now facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of Public Health Tasks and two amendments of the SAB Group. Since there's no desire to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the nine sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of education and sport and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members, the amendment of the LMŠ Group and the amendment of the SAB Group of Members. Mrs Bojana Muršič wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Here we want to provide additional funds to finance the covid-19 epidemic of 7 million 700. Why are we talking about this amount? At the time of the epidemic, the state of mental health of children and youth and access to professional care became more problematic. It's been hard before, but today is so much harder. And in solving the mental health crisis in education, we can't really just count on health or social care, because it's already overloaded anyway. It is therefore necessary to provide other resources with priority, as major problems are forecasting for the future integration of these young people into the labour market as well, and investment in preventive action is essential, i.e. in education itself. There is a need to strengthen mental health in schools and, above all, to strengthen advisory services, which are the first ones to start talking to these youths, to start directing them. This means, both in terms of assistance and comprehensive advice to children and also these advisory groups then cooperate with health institutions and also with social institutions. Therefore, it is extremely, extremely important that we give more resources for this education, that we devote more resources to education, because health, mental health of children is extremely, extremely important. The consequences, however, are reflected in society. And you really need all those clues that are, to try to heal as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levi, the two amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC, the amendment of the LMŠ Group and the amendment of the SAB Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the activity of music education and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the activities of institutions for children and young people with special needs and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups and the amendments of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Activity of Higher Education and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. No interest in the debate, I conclude. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the activity of higher education and the amendment of the LMŠ Group and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. The word wants mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	In this amendment, the Social Democrats want to provide 2 million additional funds for the Maribor Medical Faculty. The Covida pandemic has made it clear that Slovenia is lagging behind in the education of a sufficient number of new doctors. An important role was played by the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, where, as the Minister has already said today, the number of increased entry places was approved, but unfortunately no additional source of funding was provided. Therefore, with the amendment, we propose that the medical colleges be provided with an additional EUR 2 million under the budgetary resources, which are intended to conduct a higher education medical study in this university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Covid-19 Epidemic Fund and the amendment of the leftist and LMŠ groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and library activities and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of Publishing and an amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Pet Culture and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. It's not a big deal. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the Arts Programmes and the amendments of the left-wing groups and the unrelated Members, the amendments of the LMŠ Group of Members and the amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Judicial Procedures and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. The word wants mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the opposition, we proposed an amendment that in reality takes away the funds that are necessary for the functioning of the Supreme Court. The fact is, what we have been pointing out for the past few weeks is that this government, even though the money has been promised that the financial plans have already been submitted to the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, also the Council of State, the National Assembly unilaterally, without any dialogue, has taken the necessary resources for action. If we touch the Supreme Court more specifically. The fact is that because of this co-infection co-infection, because of the functioning of this government in the past year, the case has increased dramatically in the courts. The fact is that we have been warned that it is precisely because of this increase that trials are now being brought, including that they were stopped at a certain point because of the lockdown, that, of course, these trials have now been extremely prolonged. Our country has a very poor experience with long-term judicial proceedings and we have paid a very high price as well. And the fact is that everything needs to be done to prevent this and to react immediately. That is why the Supreme Court wanted to hire 90 additional professional colleagues, who could effectively ensure that these proceedings would normally take place so that they would function normally. Even though they were foreseen in the financial plan, the Government unilaterally abolished these funds, we are now returning them with the proposed amendment. I really appeal to the coalition to support this amendment, because the provision of an independent judiciary at a given time is even more important than ever before, the provision of swift judicial proceedings as well. We believe that the amendment is legitimate and urgently needed primarily for the effective functioning of ensuring the principle of the division of power, because we fear that these funds have been withdrawn for only one reason, and this is that the judiciary has not judged the situation of the rulings and this must not be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Support Activities and Administration and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. The word wants mag again. Maria Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	As in the previous amendment, a quota of EUR 933 000 518, which was also recorded by the Council of Justice in an application for the preparation of the budget, has been re-collected unilaterally to the Council of Justice in this case. Unfortunately, these funds have been unilaterally reduced, which means that the Council of Justice should in fact, through its own resources, also from its own budget, provide funds for the work of the four judges allocated, which in fact means that the Council of Justice will act in a weakened manner and that its existence will in fact be compromised. We therefore propose that the proposed funds be reimbursed on the basis of return to number 933 and thus ensure the functioning of this extremely important body in our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Unless I close the debate. The vote on the amendment and on the specific part of the draft amending budget will be held in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday, i.e. tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of Thursday's vote. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're going to continue with 3. Agenda item — Defence of the supplementary proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2023. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget and will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the General Part, the Special Part and the Development Plan of the Programmes shall be considered. We are moving on to the consideration of the General Part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. I'll open the list. Please sign in. We have two reported debates, the first to get the word Mrs Natasa Sukič, followed by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The budget for 2022 was probably a lot of this already said, but I will still highlight things that go back not least in 2023 and beyond, if certain things like they are supposed to apply. Nor is it a secret, as my fellow Members have already said yesterday, that we cannot support these budget documents in Levica. Why not? Because they mean to our assessment the continuation of this government's completely flawed fiscal policy. This gives us a clear and essentially very simple message by means of budgetary documents by 2023: with tax gifts and subsidies for capital and the rich, we will actually spend or exhaust our national budget in order to ask ourselves who will cover these issues. So they will be covered by future governments and perhaps even future generations, because these are very severe cuts. Let me just say, in a few years, tax breaks will mean drilling a hole in the state budget of €800 million a year, in a few years. Do you have any idea what this means for a country like the Republic of Slovenia? Can you imagine what it means to do with these 800 million euros a year in terms of strengthening the social state, in terms of certain investments that are necessary? For example, strengthening the public health system and so on, not to mention the long-term care that has been discussed so much, the construction of the homes that are needed for the elderly and the like. What are we talking about? The government is in the wake of a record deficit in 2020, which, of course, is record-breaking under these circumstances, and I will not be going into controversy here now. Of course, it is partly true that we are in an epidemiological situation and, of course, the situation is unpredictable, of course, spending so much higher, but nevertheless, we have also seen a completely irrational consumption. Therefore, after a record deficit in 2020, the budget spending limit for 2021 was raised by the Government for an additional 670 million. The 2022 budget changes, however, plan to raise expenditure by €470 million, and for 2023 it is already envisaged to save or reduce budget expenditure by €580 million. Now let me be clear. In Levica, we are convinced that there is no problem in budgetary spending as such, because in Levica we are always and consistently committed to increasing public health spending, for the social state and for public investment while, of course, increasing budgetary revenues, in particular from taxes on capital and wealth, but not vice versa; what the Government is doing, which is always giving leave to those who in fact need it at least. We therefore strongly oppose government spending public money for some socially unprofitable purposes while reducing taxes for the rich. So, now you're going to say that we're always doing this again - say, 780 million euros for weapons, but not for weapons. Not for strengthening our security here, which you're blinded to all the time and persuading. No! No! It is the acquisition of weapons for NATO's foreign missions, such as such a failed mission as the mission in Afghanistan, which has completely occupied the mission, where we have thrown together a lot of money both for weapons and of course for our people there. And where did that go? In the air, by the way. What we're buying will go through so many and so many years for old iron. But no, here 780 million is not a problem and these are serious numbers when we have in mind a country of some dimensions such as Slovenia, which is not really a large country. Then EUR 900 million for supplements that are largely leaking into the pockets of overpaid doctors of amphibians, we have also lost a lot of words in this National Assembly, but nothing moves better. No one sees the social damage that this is and what can be done more rationally and especially for the good, for the good of the public, for the good of the people. Tax exemptions for the best paid, as I said, will shorten the country by up to €800 million per year. 800 million euros a year. Why? Because that's what this government has decided. In short, it's a bunch of unnecessary and extremely wasteful expenses, and actually, I can say, scandalous discharges. But when we look around after some reality, we can't get past some pressures and actual needs of people who've been calling for help for decades. So, what I'm trying to say is, this isn't just about this government — that we understand each other! I am talking about that in Parliament and that all the governments of the Republic of Slovenia should have before them the real hardships of people, the real needs of people, even when it comes to years or decades of desperate calls for help. And now I'm gonna get to the Anho case. I know we've been hearing about Anhove all the time these past few days, but we're hearing the right thing, aren't we? Why Anhovo? Look, it's an ecologically degraded and burdened area from the time of the previous state where asbestos was a problem. So, this place is always and always, and more than ever, paying a large blood tax due to industrial asbestos pollution – that is, once, now with co-incineration – where there is no hearing that at least standards for incinerators and co-incineration plants would be equalized and at least a precaution would be taken, at least not to mention the co-incineration of waste coming from Italy, that there is three times more co-incineration in Anhove than in a cell incinerator. So these are really heavy burdens both for the environment and for human health. Well, it also endangers the inhabitants of Anhove that the water flowing from their tents is simply not suitable for drinking. And although the inhabitants of Anhovega, the municipalities of Kanal near Soča and the Central Valley of Soča, as I said, have for decades been alerting to their distress, to these health and environmental problems – as once said, it was asbestos, and today co-incineration and contaminated drinking water – but they are always overheard. And what happened this summer? Of course, nothing happened that was entirely new or unexpected. However, Anhovo was in addition to all the difficulties, another environmental accident occurred on 24 July morning when, due to the error in the operation of the Eternit industrial cleaning plant, the waste water leaked into the water network and the pollution of water seriously endangered the health of the inhabitants and residents and left literally without drinking water, which ultimately belongs to them; all of us, the Constitution defines it as ours. In this budget, for 2022 and 2023 it is necessary to listen to such stories, to such real situations, but not to easily disperse: so many tax breaks there, and so many weapons here, and these weapons are being auctioned on the contrary, as we see, so that these plans are being undermined by these various financial structures. But here we do not hear a simple call for assistance that would cost the country in two years total a million 200 000 euros. So, in the financial year 2023, in particular, EUR 700 000 and these EUR 700 000, respected and respected, should be provided in such a megalomanic budget, where there is room for all living, for many things, which is not really necessary, unless it is a priority. Priority must be our people wherever they are, whether it's Anhovo or it's anywhere in Slovenia. People, their hardships and their needs. That's why we're here, after all. And to continue, at the moment, thousands of people are using this water — what? – running through this industrial facility Salonit Anhovo and, of course, these incursions of industrial waste water into what people then get through the pipe when they open it at home, according to their own words. They're pumping this water out of Soca for bait. Idrijc is poured into Soča, and Idrijca is thrown down at the annual level, if we just look at mercury, 150 tons of mercury, and we can imagine what a burden this is for human health. Your Honor, look! Can you, Madam President, warn your colleagues who are making a fool of themselves when I describe a real problem, why it is necessary to listen to people in this budget? They're making a fool out of it. Colleagues from SDS. It's funny to them because they don't live there. And this is about the budget, my respects, this is not some kind of empty-talking. It concerns, in particular, EUR 700 000 in 2023 and EUR 500 000 in 2022, as we, in the opposition, propose an amendment. That is why I think it is right to stress this for so long that you will understand that life is made up of these small, little stories, not from these big plans of yours, but ultimately nothing or nothing. It is necessary to ensure that these people are connected to the public water network of Mrzlek, so that their drinking water is no longer mixed with industrial sewage; it is said that their drinking water is transported through the private company Salonit Anhovo. It's just not going to work, and I'm really asking you not to act so casually about it. We should all support this. There's no debate here at all. There's just no debate! And at this point, I'd stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Good-bye. Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all your colleagues and friends! In these days, we have already heard a lot of things about budgets, and today we are talking about the budget for 2023, which we know is unrealistic and a new proposal, or the budget itself, is about to happen. The budget 2023 is based on certain assumptions and the assessment of Death, which will definitely be corrected. These assumptions are Umar's autumn forecasts, which forecast 6.1% growth for 2021, 2022, 4.7% and 2023, 3.3% growth for 2023. We can only hope that these rates of growth will remain at least in these percentages, given that the epidemic has not yet ended and that the number of infected is increasing exponentially. What worries me about the preparation of budgets and what the Fiscal Council also points out is that, we know that budgets are made on the basis of previous draft budgets, not least of all the final accounts, and that if we look at the 2020 rebalancing itself, the level of expenditure of the state budget has been unrealistically high, and given that the projections for 2021 and 2022 are made on this basis, this high level of expenditure is simply reflected in all the following budgets. In particular, this is also one additional reason and a significant risk of irrational public spending, over-expenditure, resulting in a long-term deterioration of public finances and, of course, in the end of the debt and a rise in public debt. We all know that when you give someone something, it's usually hard to take it. When you cut, people always fight back, so it's gonna be really hard. Indeed, one of the reasons why expenditure should be reduced in 2023 is, according to the Minister, that is to say, lower wages, which means that there will be no more covid supplements. However, it is difficult, we know that from March 2020 alone, almost a billion euros have been spent on healthcare supplements. Of course, not to be mistaken, but we do know how these supplements were distributed and who received them. Just the ones we deserve the most, these are the nurses that got them at least. As a result, nurses also left, and eventually went to work at McDonald's. But today we have a problem with this personnel. So difficult to say In addition, there have been certain increases in wages in health and social protection. [[…]] It is so difficult to predict that in 2023 there will be lower expenditure on salaries. Then there will be lower social transfers in 2023. Of course, I hope that it will be true that there will be no need for the economic situation to be so good that it will not be necessary, and that there will be no more co-vids, that there will be no need to intervene on the basis of social transfers to that extent. And the next reduction in material costs, as far as the co-vid is concerned, of course I believe that if there is no co-vid, there will be lower costs. With the preparation of budgets that the Government has brought to the National Assembly, with both optimistic figures on the expenditure side, when we listen to the coalition and also to the minister himself, how can we afford everything, in fact, with the fact that money is cheap, that we owe ourselves at a negative rate and so on, we have set ourselves up on the basis of this — you have also set your expenditure so generously. On the other hand, on the income side, we do have very little resources to bring revenue to the National Assembly, but we currently provide these revenues more with debt. And here is definitely the question of how we will service public debt in the future. No one disputed that in 2020, when the co-vid crisis arose, there was no need for measures that we had taken over the nine CAPs. All these measures have been taken more or less on the basis of the measures outlined following the recommendations of the European Commission. All countries have adopted laws in this way and all the countries currently in the European Union have intervened and have committed themselves. Really, that's all true. In Slovenia, however, public debt grew the fastest during covida. This is worrying, although it is so easy to hear that public debt is not problematic that it does not present any special problems for Slovenia. Which I might mention. Why budgets, say, for 2021 or for this year's budget should be the government's presence should bring into the National Rebalancing Assembly, but it is not because it says that it has a legal basis or that only one item has changed, and that is the covid item. [[…]] However, we need to know that for 2021 alone, I think that the last number is more than 30 transfers from this cot item, which we simply do not know what this government is spending on, and you will obviously also, with ZIPRS, which we will probably consider today and will accept tomorrow, re-vote the right of redeployment without the knowledge of the National Assembly. This once again means irrational spending, intransparency and all past the National Assembly. The budget proposal was also accompanied by an assessment by the Government that the budget is optimistic and developmental, with an emphasis on historically high investments. No one disputes or troubles investment. Neither do I, because we know that public investment contributes significantly to the start-up of the economy in the short term and in the long term to raising resilience and increasing economic potential. However, we all point out that, above all, it is only if they are properly targeted and effectively implemented. In fact, certain construction things, such as circulars, roads across different municipalities, are not investments in the development and developmental breakthroughs of Slovenia, which you keep saying are investments that will bring added value in the future. We know that we have a huge potential to draw on the Recovery and Resistance Plan, where investments are supposed to be, but, yes, we are talking about investments in green, digital breakthroughs, investments that will bring added value in the coming years. It is true that our Recovery and Resistance Plan has already been confirmed by the European Commission, but this does not mean that this plan is also a quality and good plan for Slovenia. Indeed, we know how this Recovery and Resistance Plan was prepared. For a long time, he was in secret that the general public did not even see him and was not involved in the profession, the university and so on. There's something else possible about the budget manoeuvring and public debt. In the 2023 budget, although a minimum cost cot is still expected and economic growth is expected, a large budget mania of 1.6 billion is still foreseen. If we look only this year, say, at 6% of economic growth we will have the same deficit as last year, when government revenues were significantly lower. This really shows that budgets are not development-oriented and, above all, in a truly sincere way, a reduction in public debt. As far as public debt is concerned, I have already said that I am concerned about the future servicing of this debt. Indeed, in 2019 we had a public debt of 29.8 billion, in 2022 the public debt was expected to be 44 billion. In just four years, public debt will increase by 15 billion. We're really talking about huge numbers, and this isn't a small number for Slovenia. And the fact that the minister boasts or says that public debt is still below the average of the European monetary union is already possible in a relative percentage of GDP. However, it was heard several times in those days that Slovenia was also in 2013 when the public debt was 45% of GDP just before bankruptcy. These are not some flossules and some opposition mantras now, but the fact is that for small countries such as Slovenia, it is even more important what public debt it has. Above all, it is important, not as much as the amount of public debt, the structure of public debt. Slovenia knows that most of it is in charge of a foreign market. This is not the same as, say, I don't know, Japan, America, which is mostly in charge of the internal market, which can otherwise negotiate with its debtors than we do when foreign investors and foreign currencies buy our bonds. On the one hand, the fact that it is appropriate to assess how high the public debt is is is, in fact, estimated by the financial markets. Currently, at the time of this crisis, the co-existence of the crisis, all investors or financial markets are satisfied. Because they know that all the bonds that come into the market are currently bought out more or less by the European Central Bank, and thus the debt price for all European countries at more or less the same level. And the fact that we owe ourselves to a cheap, negative interest rate is not our special ability right now. Greece, too, and we know that almost 200 per cent of GDP has a high public debt, including Greece's debt at a negative interest rate. Moreover, during this time, no state has lost its credit rating. However, it depends very much on how, in what state of public finances we will come from this crisis, this is very important. And with a high public debt, when we have problems, then Slovenia will not be a problem of the European Union, but the problems of Slovenia will be problems of Slovenia. However, if Italy had, I don't know, a problem, it would be a problem for the European Union and Italy. That is why it is so important that we are careful when incurring debt, especially if we are already in debt to do things for real, for investments that will bring added value in the future, not for current expenditure. We know that current expenditure is growing disproportionately with us, and so far the budget has been charged with at least 95 per cent of all the legal obligations that the State has to settle. With such an increase in current expenditure, we are already over 100 per cent, and after this projection our budgets cannot be quite a good time. And if we look at it that way, we're going to have to be in debt for a while, except I don't know if we're going to start taking any rights. As I have already mentioned, it is particularly important that the question of what will happen when we are again dependent on our own ratings and when we are no longer able to rely on the European Central Bank's bond purchases, we know that as soon as these buy-backs are reduced and ended, the interest rate will also increase slowly and then it will be shown how quality, how sound and how robust public finances we have in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Only a few amendments would touch on this subject of the budget, because I think our President, Alenka Bratušek, and our colleagues Rajh, Bandelli and Starović have already said a great deal about what is bothering us in this budget in general and where our main concerns are. I also personally understand that in this country we have been faced with a particular situation of coronaryism, which has surprised not only our country, but the whole world, I understand that we had to react quickly, but I do not understand that some things are being done without some long-term reflection on what this means for this country in the future. No matter what kind of government, whose government it will be, it is our common state, and when decisions are made, even how much it will be owed — over 40 billion will be public debt at the end of 2021, 4 billion, sorry — I think that this is something we should all be worried about. For the amendments that we signed in the SAB yesterday, however, we would concentrate on just a few things, and others have already been presented to colleagues, and in 2023 we believe that special attention should be paid to the mental health of children and adults. Mental health has proved to be a very, very pressing issue over the past two years. We talked a lot in the National Assembly about the consequences for young people, children and adolescents, especially when they did not go to school and the same is true – and this is reported by experts, and this has not grown on the scale of a policy – even for adults. I was shocked, two days ago, I was informed that even in high school where my son had taken the life of a young girl again, the fourth year of high school, and when I spoke to the head of the Children's Psychiatrics Department, she said that these problems were essential in recent years, significantly more. Over the past two years, there has been a significant increase in not only suicide, which I am talking about now, but also various forms of depression, self-punitive behaviour, destructive behaviour, violent behaviour and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that, as a country, if we are to avoid major problems, we should give appropriate attention. All parliamentary groups, not only the Alenka Bratušek Group, have been contacted by representatives of this National Institute for Public Health and have prepared the amendments that we have tabled and have also drawn attention to the Resolution of the National Mental Health Programme, which provides for a set of measures to be implemented. Here you have two amendments for which I would be kindly asked in the SAB to enforce. With the first amendment, additional funds amounting to EUR 1 million in 2023, namely the Programme 17.06, are allocated to the National Mental Health Programme Action Plan from 2021 to 2023, the Programme for the Strengthening of Mental Health, the Prevention of the Development of Mental Health Problems, Early Interventions and Psychosocial Support for Vulnerable Individuals and Mental Health Groups. In short, additional resources will be needed for this area, where additional experts and additional efforts will be needed to address this area. Under these means, for example, there are some already recognized programmes that will need to be strengthened, such as this telephone for young people, TOM, where they report a marked increase in demand for their services. The content of the problem that young people are calling has also changed, and many of these changed problems are related to the problems associated with this particular period of coronavirus, when young people cannot communicate normally, when certain activities are very difficult for them, when they cannot relax and, say, share their distresses and so on. If calls were intended for interfaith relations of love, sex and so forth before the epidemic, they are written in this request for acceptance of the amendment, now there are calls for misunderstanding within the family, for domestic violence and peer violence, suicidal thoughts and self - injury. The same thing I say about adolescents is also true of older people, including students who are already seeing an increase in anxiety disorders, depression, stress, distress due to problems with an existing situation, loneliness and so on. This kind of money intervention would therefore be necessary here, so that this area could be strengthened and that, in the future, experts and experts could be further strengthened. The second programme is 820 000, including with the user 2711, Ministry of Health, within the framework of the Health Care Policy under the main programme 1706 The Public Health Programme increases the sub-programme 170601 Public Health Tasks. This is, if I read, "with the amendment, an additional €820 000 is earmarked for the implementation of the NIPO public service for the implementation of the National Programme of Mental Health" and then it is detailed in the amendment what falls under this programme. The second amendment that I would like to point out is the amendment covering the same area or two amendments, but falls under the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, 330, the Ministry of Education, within the framework of Policy 19 Education and Sport under the main programme 1901, increasing the sub-programme 190102 Resilient activities in the field of education and sport to EUR 500 000, for educational work, which is for these various professionals and other advisers, so that they can track those young people who are in need in time and assist them and turn them to the experts I spoke about earlier. This 500 000 is specifically intended for the education of counsellors and administrators in the field of strengthening and supporting mental health in educational institutions and for the education of classrooms in the area of the management of classes in the direction of strengthening the mental health of students and students. I spoke to a counselor in this area and told them how it was necessary here, not only to have one counselor at school who was trained about it, but how it was necessary to educate employees more in this situation, including teachers who were then classmates, to talk to their children about these pressures in class and to help them there or have already been given to know that there are different forms of help available to them. Then, very similarly, another amendment to this same user is 7 million 500 thousand. Here, too, these additional resources are for additional employment of advisory staff in primary schools. Thus, it is my intention to stress once again how important this area is. I know that it is very popular in this country to build roads and circles and so on, but if in a few years we have mentally damaged individuals who may be permanently marked by this period of crowning and these hardships, we can have our health system and the entire system of great, great problems that these programs could prevent. To end just one more amendment, this is actually a number of amendments intended for mediation. As you know, I have been a supporter of mediation for many years; mediation, a process of mutual dispute resolution, where two parties to a dispute through mediation are working to find a common solution. Mediations have become quite strong in recent years, have expanded considerably and have outstanding positive properties. If I leave the possibility of the one who is in conflict to co-form the solution and the procedure in which this solution will take place, which I think is most important, I might point out here the benefits that the state has since mediation. In all mediation programmes conducted in Slovenia in the courts, because we have data here, 30 per cent of the clients offered mediation decide to mediate. According to one third of the cases where mediation is offered to people who already have a dispute in court, both parties give their consent. Of this one-third of the cases, 50 percent – on average, for all years now, this percentage is between 48 and 52 – the mediation ends with settlement; it is said that the parties agree on a solution. What does that mean for the country? This means that there is no trial in this case; it is said that there is no main hearing, there is no reference to the main hearings, there is no invitation to witnesses, there is no invitation to the parties, there is no work at the main hearing where the judge works, there is no part of the minutes, there is no part of the writers who regulate it, there are no more days and months of proceedings during which these main proceedings are conducted. And then there's no writing judgment for a judge. Since the dispute is negotiated, there is no appeal against a higher court; it is said that the higher courts are burdened. Since there is no decision in a higher court, there is no going back to trial, which places a burden on the Court of First Instance again. Since there is no decision in the higher court, there is no work for senior judges, clerks and registries in the higher court. There are no enforcement procedures in these matters because people agree. The savings are enormous. Regardless of the fact that I keep reminding myself of this, mediation funds are constantly falling. Mediation in family matters – this is not the problem with this budget – has been a particular problem for several years now, instead of being covered by European funds. It is especially for children, family relations, children’s benefits, and so on. In short, we did not know otherwise than that additional funds were foreseen in the individual courts implementing the associated mediation programmes. This is a minimum of EUR 5,000, but given the low price of the mediator, it can mean quite a few successful mediations. That is why, of course, I ask you, especially the ministry and of course Members, to consider that these minimum amounts are earmarked for this purpose and that this amendment is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the budget for 2023, it is possible to understand the budgetary strategy which, at the expected post-epidemic conjunctural breakdown, poses as its Archimedes point a gradual financial consolidation. Fiscal policy is at the heart of the political debate in Slovenia. Consolidation, the gradual consolidation of public finances after a severe epidemic shock, may be necessary. However, we do not agree on the order and the combination of measures to be taken. We have very different views here. The fundamental problem remains how to foster economic growth, increase competitiveness and maintain social sustainability through fiscal and other policies. Perhaps there is a need to add to the consequences of the epidemic. This is not just a technical issue, but also a substantive solution to the problems. The logic of political-economic cycles is inexcusable. The legislative and executive branch of the authorities must start with short-term measures. In this regard, I think we agree that short-term measures are being implemented across the board, while there is a need for consistent establishment of medium- and long-term structural reforms. In the area of public finances, there is currently an extremely volatile and volatile situation. This situation is a limiting factor, so we must pay particular attention to the time component to the politicians and planners of any reforms. Short-term problems cannot be resolved through structural reforms that operate on the medium or long term. We cannot deal with current budgetary problems through health or pension reform, for example, public administration reform and the rationalisation of public sector costs require in particular good public management and structural adjustment time. In terms of economic policy management, the government must not set too many targets in relation to the number of instruments available and the number of options for action in order to avoid economic policy-making loops where their effects do not come at the same time as measures and, in particular, at the same time as their costs. Coordination of public revenue and expenditure is the most important task of budgetary policy in a particular financial year and, of course, it is no different for 2023. I think that the proposed budget for 2023 is a somewhat specific Slovenian approximation of the two concepts of the country – the regulatory countries and the developing countries. The concept of a regulatory state prevails in the economic and intellectual spheres. It is based on the tradition of neoclassical economic school. According to its teachings, the State must provide a legal and regulatory environment in which the free market can unhinderedly realize its development potential. In the radical interpretation of this concept, the country is only a developmental disorder and is smaller than it is, it will develop faster. In Slovenian everyday, this concept has been recognized, I stress above all the past, this concept has been recognized through insistence that all economic problems are related to the poor business environment, to the poor work of institutions, to the high level of corruption and to the distortions of the rule of law. The opposite concept of the regulatory state is a developing country. In this concept, the country plays an active role in industrial policy and in the restructuring of economic space. This means that the State intervenes directly, affects market processes and directs them towards a path that should accelerate economic development. This concept was largely abandoned by the transition countries, where Slovenia, of course, also belonged. It was explained that he was compromised during the socialist period. Today we see that the views in Slovenia on what has changed radically. Experience should also show that economic development is either completely pointless or inferior in view of the advantages of the unhindered functioning of the market forces. There are at least two problems in this dichotomy between the regulatory and development countries. The first problem is the fact that it is the enforcement of artificial division and the separation of the country's integral functions. The developing country does not exclude regulatory segments; any country including development should also be regulatory at the same time. Without regulatory institutions, the development function of the State cannot be adequately achieved. On the other hand, there is no room in the concept of the regulatory State for its active development role, as this role is to be left to the market. We can only imagine what this would look like in Slovenian practice since March 2020 if we left it all to the market. Economic history clearly shows that all developed countries have gone through debt, including a few centuries of periods in which the country's active role has been crucial to their development. This development was supported by strong state interventions at the level and to the extent permitted by the historical moment. We are at a historic moment today, we are adopting the 2023 budget, in which this country has not yet been on the state of its public finances. And in economic development, the most successful were the countries that managed their development and did not leave it only to market legality. However, it is not a uniform recipe for development, but there are common components to economic success. All successful models are based on integration into the global economy, in the great labour mobility, in the high level of savings and in the high level of investment. In the development of the economy, in the development of the state economy, active and pragmatic governments that are committed to economic development play an important role, especially governments that are willing to experiment reasonably. The general part of the proposed budget for 2023 shows that the country plans for €11 billion and €842 million of revenue and €13 billion and €360 million of expenditure. If we look at the revenue structure first, it says, this is €11 billion and €842 million, then we can find that tax revenues make up €9 billion and €698 million, totalling 81.90 per cent of total revenue. Thus, only tax revenues amount to more than four fifths of the total revenue of the state budget. By size, the other funds received are from the European Union countries and other countries with 12.3 per cent, billions and 455 million, while the third are tax revenue of 4.5 per cent, the fourth capital income of a good percentage, the donations received and the transfer revenue combined make up a good tenth of a percentage. Therefore, tax revenues are decisive in the structure of the overall revenue of the budget, but it is true that there are four tax types within the tax revenues, which in fact form slightly less than 74 percent of the total revenue. This is income, corporate income tax, value added tax and excise duty. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is crucial to stress, regardless of who will run the executive power in Slovenia in the future, and whatever ideas it will have regarding the country's tax policy. If we look at the planned structure of tax revenue in 2023, things are clear. The value added tax represents 37% of all revenue. The second largest is income, good 15 percent, third is excise duty 12 and a half percent, and fourth is corporate income tax, slightly less than 10 percent. This needs to be highlighted in particular because any interference with the size of future revenues in these four tax types could significantly undermine the revenue capacity of the State budget. On the other hand, this could also increase, in so far as revenue is being reduced, the budget deficit and, here, it is necessary to be careful, in particular because Slovenia is convinced that the current amount of tax revenue is already to the extent that it can be gradually reduced. It just doesn't hold. In Slovenia, in fiscal policy, we need to pay particular attention on the revenue side to increase our income on the other hand, but not to reduce it by our own actions. This simply, not only in the long term, does it not hold up in the short term if we do not want to further cause ourselves problems. We've had enough trouble with the virus anyway. The expenditure side of the budget is, as it is said, projected expenditure of €13 billion and €360 million. Here I think it is a debate that would indicate the establishment now, because it is a budget that will start only after a good year and a month when it is good to see whether we are also prepared to reduce budget expenditure in Slovenia. As you know, we have discussed both the budgets, both the draft amendments for 2022 and the budget for 2023, on the home working body of the Committee on Finance to which I chair, and in all of these, almost fifteen hours of debate, I have not seen a single debate where any of the Members or Members would talk about how to reduce the projected expenditure, including in the context of an increased public debt or, as some say, a completely unacceptable, unacceptable high budget deficit, also planned for 2023. If we look at the programme structure of the budget expenditure for 2023, then clear things are comparable to what is set for 2022, with some minimum deviations. However, most of the expenditure will be devoted to the Education and Sport policy of €2 billion and €173 million. According to the size of expenditure, the second policy is Social Security – billions and 562 million euros. Thirdly, however, investment in transport and transport infrastructure – billions and 239 million euros. We also, of course, have an extremely high obligation to co-finance the pension fund, which for 2023 is projected at EUR 1 billion and EUR 176 million, but this is one way or another a law-based commitment that moves around in the same range from year to year. A little lower, below a billion expenditure, is the Defence and Protection Policy – 818 million euros, followed by internal affairs and security – 570 million, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition – 575 million and science and information society, slightly less than 500 million – 489. On purpose, I am talking about those policies that are cost-intensive most because I want to show a problem that shows which policy, which main programme and which sub-programme to reduce expenditure on. Since the reduction of expenditure would at the same time result in a reduction of the budget deficit while maintaining the planned revenue. We haven't had this debate before. No one has so far pointed out which policy, on which main programme and on which sub-programme to reduce expenditure. Only the level of public debt is constantly and constantly stressed. Never, or almost never, mention what this public debt was intended for. All we hear is the inn-house aufbikart that the public debt was either untransparent or irrationally spent. And I ask you whether everything is really so irrational, but if the country has spent 4 billion and a half euros to remedy the situation by 4 November this year, that is to say, including 2020. Was it really all so pointless if it was for jobs conservation measures, I am stressing for jobs conservation measures of €1 billion and €800 million? And remember, both the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Fiscal Council consider these measures to be meaningful and, in particular, as the main generator of economic recovery, the reduction of unemployment and the increase in economic growth. Was it really so pointless to devote a billion and 548 million euros to measures for the current functioning of public services? That's something that's worth seriously considering. Or, for example, was it really so pointless to devote €320 million to measures to reimburse fixed costs? And so on and so forth. Speaking of public debt, I mentioned earlier that, of course, it is possible to reduce it by reducing budget expenditure. But, ladies and gentlemen, any savings has its legitimacy. But of course, I am talking about saving the country, not saving the individual, the household or the company. What exactly is the policy of saving? More or less it is known that strict saving policies are based on a completely wrong way of thinking and produce effects that are contrary to what is desired. The mistake is that the proponents of saving do not recognize that the state, unlike individuals, households or businesses, cannot expect its revenues to remain at the same level after it reduces consumption. If an individual chooses not to buy a certain good, he will save money and be richer for that. But the state cannot save in the same way. If the country starts reducing consumption during a period when private sector consumption is low or even declining, the sum of private and state sector consumption will continue to fall at an even higher rate. And this sum, ladies and gentlemen, is our national income. The country that saves by reducing costs realizes the decline in national income and fiscal inflows. Unlike households and businesses, a country that reduces its consumption during a crisis actually contributes to a further decline in national income. And here, of course, we have a problem — not just us, any country — because of the characteristics that occurred after the financial crisis that began in 2008. At that time, financial markets were completely separated from the real situation of capitalist production, so any level of fiscal stimulus of the country could be too high or insufficient at the same time. Not enough because it will not create enough good jobs, and too high due to the low profitability and high indebtedness of many companies, where a minimum increase in interest rates could inevitably result in a bankruptcy stunt or perhaps even some shocks on the stock exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to mention something else in the budget debate that has been appearing as a constant in Slovenia for the past two years, something we cannot do beyond. Today, too, this has been heard in this Chamber, an obvious lack of transparency in the use of budgetary money. Also in the debate on the 2023 budget on the working body, some somewhat futuristic MPs and Members already knew that spending would be untransparent. We, ladies and gentlemen, will address the final budget account for 2020 in the framework of this meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesday, 23rd, so I will not talk about this much today. However, I would like to draw attention to what the Court of Auditors has done with regard to the final accounts of the budget for 2020 as regards the non-transparent use of budgetary resources. Let us not forget, together, that we have listened to all the working bodies and at all the meetings of the National Assembly throughout 2020, how budget money is spent in a transparent manner and how we do not even know what the Government is doing with budgetary money in the National Assembly. The State auditors reviewed, the General Labour Audit Procedure and the Special Part of the Final Account – and what did they find? In the general part, they issued a positive opinion; that is to say, the balance of income and expenditure, the financing account, the financial claims account, investments – the sovereign auditors issue a positive opinion. We're hearing about untransparent consumption. Exactly as far as Special Work is concerned; what is involved in the consumption of budgetary consumers. An opinion was issued with reservation. Of all the ministries, only three have to submit a response report, namely the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities and the Ministry of Culture, and they have to submit a response report because they failed to remedy the irregularities identified during the audit process. This is about the millions of business events that have been carried out. Of course, in Slovenia, the Court of Auditors’ opinion on the final account was considered to be completely irrelevant, but it appears that all those allegations of non-transparent consumption were placed in, to say the least, a strange light by the Supreme Auditor’s opinion in this country. This seems important to me to highlight as the conclusion of the 2023 budget debate, because this demagogo talk about non-transparent consumption has absolutely no basis in the State audit practice. The sociopathology of this mentioned sporadic, not to say permanent, but to demonstrate directly and metaphorically what kind of society we live in. It dramatically exposes the depravity and distortion of individual mentalities, which allow a wide space in Slovenia to take on unquestionable social positions. By this example, Slovenia has become an anti-civilisation specimen, a warning example. And all those who continue murmuring and shouting about untransparent consumption have proved to be so insidious that nothing stirs up more laughter than their own insolence. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this seemed important to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign in. I'm on my way. We've got three applications. The first one gets the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament! See, in 2023 we continue with the planned tight deficit, which I do not think is good again, because we should balance our budget in the medium term. I think 2023 is so far away, and I would agree with Mr Pollnar that there is some room for better balance. I must also say with this that my previous speaker has also made a fine distinction as to what saving at national level means and what it means to save at family or household level, because at national level, saving also means reducing consumption and reducing the growth of the social gross product, which we have clearly demonstrated and clearly demonstrated by another Janša government. At a time when Europe was in the position that savings should be saved and we saved and squeezed and dragged ourselves into an ever-increasing crisis. That's a nice illustration. The second point; in the current period, the only correct thing I did in the previous year, about 2022 and 2023, when we spoke, stressed that debt is smart and that when in crisis it must be countercyclical, not procyclical. This has also produced results. However, I do not agree, critics, as the opposition has said, because our criticism, I must say at least for the SAB, we have not voted against the KPK laws, because we thought they were necessary and useful. It is a pity that our comments by the ruling coalition have not been taken into account by the government, which have proved to be on the spot and the real ones. Seriously. To make progress, we need to take into account the spectrum of interests and knowledge and abilities both on the left and on the right, or I will say, in more liberal currents and more conservative currents. So I must stress, I am not against borrowing, but I am against excessive debt, which is not primarily about development; development, as my colleague Marko said well in the debate under the second point. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in fact, if we do not invest in development, in breakthroughs, this will affect the backlog. And we can, as we have felt in the debates, have a level of productivity below the European average, which is bad. We have to change that. And that's why we need these breakthrough green development projects. This can lead us forward, not another matter. Our SAB party has put in the procedure of the proposal for an Infrastructure Fund Act, which has been rejected. Look at how much Slovenians we have saved, and I don't know, but we have over 20 billion that are located in our banks, some foreign banks, at home, abroad, that, thirdly, because they have nowhere to invest. The idea of the infrastructure fund was, to commit to domestic people, to offer them an opportunity to invest in the construction of transport infrastructure. Look, what we're doing is we'd rather borrow from somewhere else where they benefit from this bank, the commissions that fall and so on. With an infrastructure fund that would be a transparent public fund that would issue sovereign bonds, we would withdraw the money in, ours, saved, our people, but this Parliament or I will say more precisely, the coalition has rejected such a law. Why? I don't know because he came from the opposition. So we do not want to hear good suggestions coming from the other side that did not grow up on the side of the coalition or at the headquarters of Mr President of the Government. Therefore, when we talk about the non-transparency of the budget and the way in which the budget is adopted, I think it has its weight and needs to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you, too. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. It is clear here that we have absolutely blown public finances. We've seen this before in 2022, 2023, is just proof that we can say that the state reminds us of some wild west and I'm absolutely certain of it. The European Commission has also publicly confirmed that our public financial deficit due to high current expenditure will be reduced slower than the EU average; this is not what we have said, says the European Commission. We have a historically high public debt here, historically high. Budget deficit, if you've seen for yourself what it's like, we've seen in the previous year 2022 that there's two billion and a half billion, there's a billion and a half here, that's a total of 4 billion in two years. And I think you need to think about it a little bit here. More than 40 billion will be public debt at the end of 2021, which means that more than 20,000 euros will be owed to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I think the numbers tell you what's going on. The State must manage the debt so that there are no difficulties in dealing with the obligation and this is the main problem. The coalition has also adopted mostly laws without budgetary coverage. But if we look at a case of long-term care, there will be another big problem. The Fiscal Council, if you have seen it, also points out the unrealistic planning of these expenses and the transition to overheating the economy. We need to understand why. It is interesting, however, that expenditure for 2021-2022 is overestimated and underestimated for 2023. Here's the question of how it's being prepared. Regardless of what I have just said right now, I will not talk about the amendments, because it is irrelevant, we have already seen that the Government has rejected all the amendments tabled, except for the few who confirm our behaviour, what we know exactly why it has confirmed them – to win votes on this budget. The only difference in budget 2023, which was – since this is an additional draft budget, is not a new budget for 2023, but is somehow complemented, the figures are the same, they remain largely the same – the only difference in the interior is the provision of additional resources to balance the development of municipalities within the Ministry of Finance's proposal for a financial plan. That's what they call helping congregations. We all agree, it's no big deal, it's very good. I see a very good thing here. I'm more concerned than I said, probably because, well, one part of this money was collected from the general budget reserve, if you say so, but 20 million reserves of the reserve have been redeployed for intervention recovery from reserve funds, reserves for the first intervention of natural disasters. [[…]] I'm a little worried right now. Here I know there's still a lot of money in this item, which is, but I think it's cheap again what could probably happen in 2023. I have a feeling that the government estimates that in 2023 natural disasters cannot occur, and we see for ourselves what is happening. He can come every day. Look, now this could be sudden, in 14 days we've closed the world down, what's going on here, and we need to have some backup. Okay, well, man says, then we call back and make a rebalance and see what it is. But no matter what, I agree, this is about the congregations. In fact, this means to balance the development of the congregations, to eliminate disproportionately indebtedness of the congregations, this was to increase from 6 percent to 8 percent, which I think is very good. It is therefore also necessary to provide these 26.6 million additionally in 2023. What's more important here, what I'm looking at, year 2023. In the balance of revenue and expenditure, as mentioned above, one deficit is planned. Now, the coalition normally brags about big investments, big figures, everything's under control. We will do it by looking at the budget and seeing all the items where everything will be invested, in what way, where, where, where, the roads, different circles, the premises are such and different and everything that is. And then they tell me about the developmental budget. Here I think it's the biggest mistake that's in here, but I'll get to it a little later. Here we see precisely in revenue when we look – I am very disturbed by one thing. The revenue is planned here, almost a billion and a half of the funds received from the European Union budget. Now, we are looking at these funds provided for in the European Union, and we see that the revenue from the funds received is already lower by 217 million. 217 million. What happens in 2023, nobody knows. You know, here the funds received from the EU budget mean that the projects are completed. This is a return, in fact, we get the money back from Europe. So if we don't finish these projects, there can't be a return. And apparently 217 million didn't come back because the projects weren't finished or either, it's probably known that they won't be completed by now. And that's the biggest problem that's happening here. In fact, I am almost sure that there will be a higher deficit with regard to this item here – I mean what is expected for the funds received. But well, we'll see what it is. I'm gonna go on a little bit of tax revenue. Tax revenue. Now, here's the figure for income, if we look at it, income from income is projected at 2022 years higher by 277 million. Is that right what I see here? Now I'm just asking you a question. In view of the fact that we have in the procedure an amendment to the Income Act, this amount is wrong in any case. I mean, that's wrong. Either way, it's gonna be lower. So I don't know, I mean, you write such accurate, exact estimates, 277 million and a half, exactly, and then we don't know exactly what this change in the Income Act, which we know for ourselves, what kind of hole it's going to bring on the income side. Also a tax on legal persons' income if we look at it. This also provides for total revenue for 2023 for 57.7 million. Here, too, is the procedure for amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. In fact, it's not even in the procedure, it's already in force, it starts with 1. One, if I saw it right. Now, the planned revenue from DDPO is that these revenues are not real, and they can't be real, unless you've already taken that into account. But I didn't see where, I didn't notice that it was probably taken into account. [[…]] Also, value added tax, I don't know what address you think will make 180 million more revenue. 180 million more. What's the address? And we know what stage we're going to right now. We are now boasting of economic growth, which is – economic growth towards what has been – lower than economic growth since 2019 and 2020. We see the difference between where we grow up, but we don't look at the absolute value that was back then. I'm not going to explain this because our listeners probably don't even understand what this is about. But brag about it! It's consumption. The value added tax of this 180 million, which is expected to be higher, is absolutely understood as if the State or the Ministry of Finance were considering higher consumption. Now, what is the reality of this higher consumption? Look, I'll just give you one case. The only thing he says is that the argument that we can see and compare about consumption, general consumption, is in construction. You all know that if construction works, it's practical to pull everything else behind it. But with the prices that have grown now at this moment, which have grown franticly, we must think that certain investments have been stopped, there are certain privates, natural persons who want to repair, who have received building permits, who have stopped their work, waiting for better times, they say. You understand. This is said to be all of this anticipated additional value added tax revenue, of 180 million, also seems to be rather unrealistic. Unreal in terms of projected increased consumption, which will not be realised. This is also true, but we must also say that I have looked at what is happening at least on our territory, in our karst municipalities, by issuing building permits, and we see for ourselves that building permits are increasing. So it's a good information; that's what it says, it shows desire, intention as such, but if we look at it in fact, people have actually stopped investment. Infrastructural projects to tell you now that they have been made will also be foreseen in the annex. Because we know what it means, the price of cement, which will go up by almost 20 percent on the new year, and the price of iron, which has risen, for 70 percent of the contracts that have been signed, is said in the infrastructure work, will be an annex to the headache. It's gonna hurt her head. And I don't know if this was foreseen, because the Minister himself said earlier that he doesn't understand construction, he doesn't know what it's about, because he's not, but you know, I repeat, construction is an indicator, is the first indicator of the development and progress of one country. [[…]] What's going on. Spending as such. Because he takes everything behind him. If I move on to the motor vehicle traffic tax, we've also seen here, there's about 30 million less tax collected. This is what we have, this law you have put through, thinking that people who buy luxury cars will register them in Slovenia, instead of registering them in the Czech Republic or Slovakia, in Germany or elsewhere. The fact is, it's now 30 million less in cash. These are numbers, this is the actual state. It is probably thought that the difference between these taxes on motor vehicles will be compensated by registering cars in Slovenia and that this higher VAT tax will soon compensate this amount that you anticipated. I don't have that information, so I can't talk about it, but I doubt it'll just come in. But all right, that's probably it, and on the other hand, there's going to be a bigger sum of money in there than is foreseen in this budget. Revenue from participation in profits and income from assets and surpluses over expenditure. Let's leave that part, the other part, but this is where this moratorium on the property of the Republic of Slovenia ended. Now, what does that mean – dividend payments have been delayed here. Now you are counting on practically one higher, the rating is much higher, for 2023 they are estimated at a total of 159 million and are 27 million higher. So, from what was foreseen in the original budget for 2023, you have now practically understood from the corrections that they will be even higher by 27 million. It's all right, it says, no more moratoriums, dividends will be paid and only so much tax will come in. But what's the problem here now? That's until today. You yourself know that there is a demographic fund in the procedure and coordination that you all praise and expect widely, and we know exactly where it will be fed – according to your formula, according to your proposal where the demographic fund will be fed. One large part is also with dividends from financial companies and state-owned companies. Here we need to be careful where the real height of this 159 plus 27 million or 159 million, 160 million projected. That's 2023, that's one year good and that's what it is, but it'll be right here. And if the marriage goes into procedure, it is said that there will be a problem here next year – I am still talking about the revenue side. Income from property, if we look here; income from concessions and all that stuff that they are. I already told the minister at the time that this was the only marriage I thought was smart, but you did one piece of marriage completely, you put everything in, so we don't even know why, instead of slowly moving on to it. The only smart thing I think is to cut the rent tax because it's too high and we agree that it's very high, too high. A colleague did one research and said that over 20,000 privately owned apartments were not leased, and we have to ask ourselves why these people don't turn in. I'm sure a few of these apartments are black. It can, probably because one third of the tax is not willing to pay but rather risk being able to pay the fine as if it were on the income side of the country. That's quite possible, that's what's happening. If you were to reduce this rent tax or have another system, which we will also present soon in Parliament, to tax in any way in order to be honest with those rents. But given that we will probably present a smart marriage, a good law for the state and everything it is, it will be mined if you're still in the government. That is why we will probably wait for the proposal. In terms of expenditure, I am interested – I did not see this in the budget – if expenditure provides for funds to raise wages in the DSOs. You put this on the big flag of this matter, which is also right, which is also fair, which is all right. What is sad here is that there will be costs here – I think the minister even said 5.6 percent – that it will be the burden of pensioners; of those who are in these DSOs. That's sad. We don't know what's going to happen or what's going to happen or how they're going to get there by the end of the month; more is said. Do you know what that means? Just one more thing! Those who are unable to afford a home for the elderly and have property are transferred to each one’s belongings. It is said that the congregation will get to their property here sooner. That’s all — the one who can’t. And they're gonna have to borrow more money in there. Why? Since you're not, probably -- I didn't see it in there -- predicted these funds to raise that salary, I didn't see them in there. Correct me if they happen to be. I wanted to tie something up here, which is very important. I would like to understand and that the people watching us understand that they cease to believe the words of our Members on the coalition side, that this is one budget that is development-oriented. Because, from a developmental point of view, this budget has absolutely nothing, not a little. Because development is completely different. Developmental issues are what the Recovery and Resistance Plan also foresees. So the state here should listen to some kind of business needs, if you say so. The funds are earmarked for the country to boost business growth. That's what you say. That's what matters. Support some ecosystem in companies; and here we speak either on production processes as a product. On both sides. Also to co-finance development incentives, if I say so, development incentives in companies. It is important to look at the way in which tenders are put out and how this is financed, and in particular to encourage industrial purchasing chains, if you know. This is the whole chain that comes to make me purchase chains that are not only in agriculture, but mainly in ordinary manufacturing processes and products, because we also noticed during this time of covida a year and a half, which products have run out, with which products we were dependent on abroad. Why didn't we have them on our market? Here are all the funds that Slovenia should put, if I were to say so, in development programmes. A developmental budget. The very word developmental means that something is going into development, into something new. Above all, there is nothing in this budget to achieve a green so-called digital transformation. Where do you see something like that in here? I can see it's missing. I will not say that it should be recorded from a return, irreversible, because these are other things and I will not even talk about it because people would not understand what this is about, but I think that in the next term, if another government is to be established, it will be necessary to establish a new ministry, a development ministry. Not the SVRK, not the Government's Development and European Cohesion Service, it's unrelated. That doesn't have any jurisdiction. I tried. You're limited on everything, on finance mostly, you're limited to the economy. Rural development is elsewhere. We should set up one ministry, a real ministry called the development of Slovenia, which would actually manage good ideas, with good interventions, with real projects that would give a boost to Slovenia, one development strategy that is not that we have not seen. Because all of these budgets, as we have now seen, and those budgets that you call development-oriented, have absolutely nothing from a developmental perspective. This could be called infrastructure projects that will be financed from the pouf, if you say so, out of debt, because if we refuse to repay here, we come to nothing, we have done nothing. Good projects – I didn't say bad investment projects – everyone's smart, everyone's fine. So each of these projects got in its area every member of the coalition, because if we look at the exact items, you will see in there one by one, and if you listen to the magnetograms of our colleagues, you will see that they are bragging about how after all these years they got projects – projects with debt, let's be careful! Since this is already the second budget, 2022 was the first budget, 2023 is the second budget, whose total deficit is almost 4 billion. However, I would like to commend you for always boasting how many of these projects are developmental, developmental with negative numbers, with a negative balance that in our government at that time was the only budget in history that left 220 million positive balance. At that time, we were able to raise wages for public servants. I'd love to. And again, but we knew that there would be a certain coverage, that there would be certain growth, economic growth, national, global entrepreneurial growth and all sorts of things. That's what I think is important, that's very important. Now to boast about this budget, it's completely pointless to brag about how much we're going to build, what we're going to do. In order not to be misunderstood, I will repeat here once again, I have no problem, urgently need homes for the elderly. It's an emergency. It's a last-minute thing. But now with a billion more debts we make them, it's no problem, it's done. We couldn't at the time when there was a fiscal rule, that's what we're saying, it couldn't be done. That was a big difference in that. But look, not homes for the elderly, not equipment, military equipment, investments in the military, as you said. This has nothing to do with developmental orientation, absolutely nothing. Nothing. This is being bought and then, the ministers have become in those positions and then here they charge and because of the like items they put in and you, who are most here, normally confirm it all on the account and on the shoulders of citizens, the taxpayer's money, which will probably be paid by four generations. This is so much that I would say from this budget 2023, which I hope will be modified, I hope that it will be changed normally in the next composition. And I also want you to understand why my criticism of why my criticisms, documented criticisms, because you've seen, I've operated precisely on numbers, why I don't believe in this budget, and why I also think that a billion and a half billion in this budget is still an illusion, and then we go up to 2 billion deficits. As you will see, when they are passed on your side of the law, either on income, and when it comes to the stage of the tax still on the income of legal persons who have been changed, but not to talk about long-term care; all that is, the deficits will be such that a person will have to hold his head. And then what are we going to do? We will remember very well who has accepted all these budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Joze Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. Yes, we conclude with budget 2023. The period of this government, the two-year rule and the two-year budget they set us up with, of course, like two Trojan horses. This is particularly true in 2023, for we claim to be a Trojan horse carrying many dangers. So let's try to figure out why. See, the 2023 financial year is kind of a year after codua, after an epidemic where, in fact, the effects, cod effects, are no longer or are still minimal in these 160 million, which of course are also foreseen. However, the deficit does not apply only to this covid – in this part alone – but the budget deficit in 2023 is still a total of 518 billion. And this number, billion 518, represents 12.8 percent of all revenue generated. Without co-existence of expenditure in these 160 million, the deficit is still 11.5 per cent on the revenue generated. Just a comparison: 224 million surplus in 2019, which is, of course, one sample year, how to deal with a balanced budget, reduce public debt and even generate surpluses, of course, at that time under the fiscal rule, these 224 million represented 2.2 percent of all revenue. 2023 still represents a deficit of 11.5 per cent. No covid expenses. And now we're wondering how to cover it. And there's something else that's interesting. If in all four years – two years of this government and, of course, a two-year budget – we put in one column, all four years, this deficit, we get, you won't believe, 11 billion 434 million. And if we compare this with revenue in 2022 — why 2022? – where income is also 11 billion 469 is almost identical. Thus, in four years we have created a deficit for exactly one year of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, if we divide this column 11 billion 434 by how much of it falls out of the cod, the deficit, this figure is 5 billion 616. How much for the rest of the current deficit? So 5 billion 818. That is to say, more of this deficit falls back on the current consumption or on this increase that we are seeing. This is also the part of the European Commission's statement when it reminds us that Slovenia is now included in a group of countries with the highest risk that this budgetary structural deficit is such that our country will be very, very difficult to cover or to provide a balance sheet in the future. That's the problem now. But if we go a little bit further, which is very important. Even for 2023, my question is what does it mean to increase income in 2023, but if there is a new Income Act that reduces revenue by 191 million in 2023, you increase it by almost 300 million. It's the first such incomprehensible setup. Of course, the increase in European funds is only welcome. It is important whether we will be able to implement these investments on the other hand, whether the projects are ready, which is the problem of Slovenia, that we are always lagging behind. Also because of the problems of bureaucracy. Of course, it is very important that we also know it in Slovenia somehow under the roof and that it will give its effects. On the other hand, expenditure stopped in 2023. There's no increase to 2022. Interesting! So, now we're wondering what the public sector unions are going to say so that wages don't go up. What will the congregations say that the averages will not grow? The provisions on transfers to individuals and households, and goods and services, of course, increased by a good 50 per cent according to 2019. But I pointed out they didn't increase to 2022. What does that mean? This simply means that this government spent excessively in 2020, 2021 and also 2022 during the period of economic crisis, at the time of the epidemic, when everyone tightened the belt and gave only for cod expenditure, cod additives where necessary. This government has raised these items by more than 50 percent. Although growth in the economy over these four years, if we pull, has been normal for 16 percent, the GDP is growing that much. And that difference is the one we point to is that it's not right. The fiscal world at all sessions also points out that this spending is unrealistic, excessive, and that we will therefore have a headache. And we don't want to know that. You talk all the time about investments, all the necessary investments, but these investments are totally off-limits. This deficit for a one-year income in four years is abnormal, and we have thus disrupted the structure of our revenue and expenditure. The structural deficit is the worst in Europe for Slovenia and should not be afforded. How's that? But if you're looking at one interesting thing, which, of course, in some millions, isn't so terrible when you look at the budget, but for those who are disadvantaged, it's very important, it's non-governmental organizations. We have heard several times in this Chamber in recent months that left governments have spent abnormally on NGOs. Yeah, right. There are 27,000 NGOs and more – but what are NGOs? Are we aware that these are fire companies, that they are sports societies, that they are disabled societies, that they are pension societies, that they are firefighters. That a lot of other non-governmental organisations that care for people; for people, for human health, for recreation, for healthy nutrition, for social contact, for housing, and this is the part where Slovenia is also known in Europe to take good care of this. Instead of the state, of course. And now the state withdraws its financial support for this part. Retreat, big part of the withdrawal. They have been turning to us to a large extent in these two years, why we are shrinking. Today, we have even heard from the President of the Committee on Finance how right it is to spend more and that these are positive effects on some economic growth! Yes, for 11.5 billion deficits in four years — if this is normal? And for 50 percent of growth, goods and services, transfers to households, individuals and households. If that's normal, then let's just be normal and wear this debt to the craftsmen. This is insane, of course! On the other hand, of course, we miss those real investments. Of course, investments in health care are needed; if we can, there is another issue. Of course, investments in infrastructure, transport, are necessary. Of course, if we can. And these investments will certainly, if they are domestic operators, bring GDP growth, added value and also return taxes to state treasury. However, there is no way that investment in the military will contribute to GDP growth and added value. Investments for the military, where we buy this expensive, difficult equipment in foreign rich countries, in this industry, the military industry, is unacceptable. This industry, which then sells these weapons to developing countries, and with these profits it covers itself then, of course, its defence forces. But developing countries keep them at This is what they call this money, instead of investing it in the development of the economy and then raising GDP, this makes it impossible for us and we are actually investing in dead capital. [[…]] It does not then have the right to force developing countries to arm themselves in the same proportion of GDP and spend money on it if they are already significantly lagging behind in development. We would like — even today we have 11 amendments — to ensure that schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, health homes and others are equipped with ventilation, which would also solve this epidemic and allow fewer deaths in the end, but you simply do not accept it. We would very much like to invest in development. Do you know where? I'll just give you one case. The woodworking industry collapsed in Koroška in the 1990s. With 60% of the forest in Slovenia, we do not know how to use our wood, we export two thirds of the log for very low added value. We export cold, we can't take advantage of it, as we once did when we had a common Yugoslav market. And just as an example, this wood industry in Koroška, which once employed 3,000 people, the country sold in 2000. You know who? The car industry! The car industry doesn't happen to know wood. Why? I asked, even now that I'm in the National Assembly, what was the point. They couldn't answer me. They said there were times when a lot of people didn't understand why something was happening. And of course, this automotive industry, after some years, has itself collapsed in Koroška, as well as the wood industry in the back. Of course, if the debts were to be buried! In Koroška we have lost, you will not believe, two thousand jobs in the timber industry, two thousand jobs in the automotive industry and this year with Adient 600 jobs. And another company, which is linked as a supplier to the automotive industry, Dani AFC, also has 200 jobs. Do you know how Koroška would need to invest technologically in a new impetus of the woodworking industry? In order to revive at least a factory of wooden plates, which is no longer available to build a label factory up there and then build wooden buildings from this home. This practice is, is being developed and needs to be given more conditions. That would be the right developmental direction! The real development policy would be to really make effective and thorough digitisation of the NOO plan, especially in the areas of health, including education, agriculture and elsewhere. That would be the effect. Informatics is an indispensable productivity in the economy, without central information systems also in the chain with our customers, where we are suppliers abroad, especially this automotive industry, you cannot work at all. It's all working. It's working. For decades, however, we have not been able to put in place an effective information system in health care that would ensure good organisation and, of course, productivity and a review of the health situation, how productive individual health teams in these public institutions are, how efficient or used this expensive equipment is. All these things could be seen, and in these three years, I have found that doctors and health - care professionals do not want to do so. Isn't that interesting? So many warnings, so many warnings, and we don't know what conclusions, but we don't know how to make them. That would be development investments. We are warning these things and we hear very little from this government. It is very flat-rate to say how some development project and, finally, when you see, although it was really covid in 2020, that is the most justifiable, the real investments were lower than in 2019. But this year, 2021, I didn't get an answer either from the secretary of state yesterday or from the minister today when I asked. However, I do not believe that it will exceed one billion euros in plans, but investment is one billion and a half. Then that's how over two billion are planned. Are projects ready for this? I asked if this government had prepared projects for the third development axis on the Velenje-Sentrupert route. In the previous government, we prepared for the northern part of Velenje–Slovenia Gradec and on the plate brought this government to invest in the third development axis. We have prepared in the budget all the necessary to ensure this guarantee, and all that this matter can be implemented today. I ask whether you are prepared for the financial year 2022 or 2023 to accept this guarantee. Is the paperwork ready? These are specific issues that we want to discuss. I don't want to pay too much money because we've talked about this a lot in all the sessions. [[advertising from the hall]] And we'll do it again, of course. After every crisis, historically, we always lose touch with the objective of achieving the European Union's average of development. Always after a few index points, including 10, we're behind and then we have to hunt this connection again. We are afraid of what is now being pointed out that Slovenia will then be lagging behind in this crisis. Today, we are at 81% of the European Union's average development and, of course, we will monitor what this trend will be like in 2022 and 2023, when we are in this period. Of course, such a budget as is here today is indeed a Trojan horse with many dangers for us and as such we cannot accept it in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got three applications. I ask that we also respect the rules of procedure, that we try to stick to the points that are on the agenda and that we are discussing in the debate. The first one has the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues! I am talking about the budget, and there have been several times in today's debate, even now, this country mentioned in 2023, and how much they would reduce it, how much they would lose it, how fat it is, and how high the taxes are. I would just like to point out that it is normal for the public sector to grow with development. The more developed the country, the bigger the public sector. It's connected. To tell you, a little old data is not the latest, I collected it a year ago. When we say that we have too high a tax — we have always heard — and that this would also reduce income. See, Slovenia has a share of taxes on gross social product of 37.3 per cent, the EU average is 38.5 per cent, which is higher. The eight most developed countries in the European Union have 39.9 per cent, i.e. almost 40 per cent of taxes. The share of employees in the public sector is 22% in Slovenia, with an EU average of 27%. In the eight most developed countries, employees in the public sector account for 30 per cent of all employees. Therefore, the public sector is the strongest sector and therefore I say that this public sector needs to be managed wisely, reasonably, because it can make the most of its contribution, it can contribute enormously to the growth of our gross social product. Slovenia is here from behind. Our public sector – well, it is also relatively smaller – contributes 15 per cent to GDP because they usually say that the public sector does not contribute. The public sector, the doctor, when he does the service, is something done, is an added value and contributes to the social product. The average of the European Union is 17% and the 8 most developed countries in the European Union are fifth and 20%. So let us deal with this public sector, where we, mentally, reasonably, reasonably and respectfully, show this public sector as that wagon, sometimes in an economy that is burdened by the whole train, that it does not go forward. That's not true! It is simply not true and let us take it for a lease and respect it and be proud of our work because it shows, given how much we contribute and how small we are, that our public sector is comparable to Europe, more productive than average. Let us also be proud of something and boast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you, too. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished guests, honourable Members and all those who accompany us in this debate around the budget for 2023! The fact is that even in 2023 this budget, which we have before us, supplemented by a proposal, continues to be an enabling policy; the policy, which is investment-oriented and is an additional two billion euros, first in 2022, is now EUR 2.23 billion in 2023. This is what the current government has proposed under the leadership of Janez Janša, and this is what policy this government coalition advocates. I am pleased that the budget in 2023 is also focused on recovery, strengthening the resilience of the economy and with individual investments and the development of the whole country concerned also with higher economic growth and greater resilience to future crises either in health or in the economic field. The fact is that it is the investments that bring about some medium-term growth and therefore the inclusion of investments in the budget is even more important. This means the development of the economy, as a result it also brings new jobs, new jobs with higher added value and consequently better quality of work as well as of the lives of all the peoples and residents of our country. Before continuing, allow me an intermenzzo from past discussions. When I hear from the opposition's KUL that investments in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, roads, transport infrastructure, health care homes, homes for the elderly are being blown up, I can't believe it. I can't believe it! And I want to know what it is for the opposition KUL representatives when money is given to NGOs, especially those who are based on Metelkov 6 — we have heard a few moments ago about the achievements of these organizations. Well, listing me one achievement of an organization based on Metelkova 6, what a contribution it has made in Slovenian society! Then we can also see that the finances that were blown up were not when money was put in banks when money was given to elites. That wasn't the finances that got blown up. I am confident that in the next few ten minutes, a number of opposition experts are likely to come up with a new vocabulary to understand these finances, which were obviously not blown up by finances, while investments in kindergartens, schools and health homes are. This is a respected and respected policy that is an alternative to the current government. So much so that things are clear. It is, indeed, always a matter of priority in politics. Dear viewers and viewers, you don't hear it now, but here on the opposition's side, there's a frenzy of unrest. Earlier, a colleague from the opposition had already said the same thing six times, and in the last two days we have listened to it because it is right to talk about arguments and arguments in democracy. Now that the words I speak seem to be very painful to the opposition, there is no peace or attention in the hall, but it is. We're already used to that in the National Assembly, I'm afraid. In short, I'll keep going. We have heard earlier from a fellow Member, Mr Bandelli, when he said he supported this government's action to finally reduce the rents that are too high. And it's very nice to meet you. It is also important to know that you were in the previous government, which raised this rent from 25 percent to 27.5%, and you supported and supported this government. I am so pleased that you have come to realize that this was not the right direction and that this government, which is going to bring down from 27.5, to which you have raised it to 15 percent to support it, is very pleased to do so. And it is right to say the things they support and acknowledge in the opposition that this government is doing well. That's it. Next thing you know, we're at Alenka Bratushek's party. It's a little strange to take your advice on borrowing. And you owe Slovenia the most! 8 billion and 600 million euros, and out of that, you put 5 billion in banks. We give money to people, to the economy, to solve the covid-19 epidemic. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Mr. Ferrjan [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Bandelli, I respectfully ask that you respect the rules of procedure and that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Bandelli, once again, I warn you. Respect the rules of procedure and do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Here you go, Mr. Ferryan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Mr Vice President, thank you very much again for this. I will not deal with this subject anymore, but it is bound to the budget, of course. However, colleagues from the SAB party themselves put this subject on the table when they asked the question, and then even on social networks, they cheated, but let's just say, you probably already read about it in our media that wrote about it. Well, let me get on with it. This budget, which we have before us, is made in still uncertain circumstances. It is based on indicators reflecting the measures taken by the current government. These indicators, one of the most important, are definitely economic growth, which is announced to us by both the domestic institutions responsible for this and, of course, by the international institutions. One of the last forecasting economic growth in Slovenia is the European Commission. For this year, 6.4 per cent of GDP, 4.2 per cent for the coming year and 2023, which is also covered by this budget, is forecast for 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product, which means that the prospects for the future of Slovenia are very encouraging. As a result, the investment-oriented budget also follows this economic growth. It is also important to touch here that in the last period, if we compare, for example, 2014, when we paid more than a billion euros in interest for our debt, these interest rates are lower today, or if we are looking at data in 2020, that is, last year, by more than 300 million euros. Over EUR 300 million lower, which means that we owe ourselves at substantially lower interest rates and, of course, we are also successfully recovering past debts. This downward trend in interest rates will continue in the coming years, such are projections, here you can see on this graph, projections by 2023. Another information is that there has been quite a bit of a talk about this today, and of course it also relates to the budget, and the state of public debt in Slovenia. It is important that the cvid-19 epidemic has, in fact, all the Member States of the European Union faced the fact that they have committed themselves. And what needs to be stressed is that Slovenia has committed itself to historically low interest rates, that Slovenia has committed itself under the average of the European Union, and that this was the way in which Member States, even on the basis of past experience, have resolved the current health and economic crisis. All of this is a reflection of the successful work of the current government. More than €1.8 billion and €1.8 billion have been allocated to the preservation of jobs, over 300 000, around 300,000 jobs have been preserved on this account and consequently Slovenia has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union. And these are very clear, illustrative indicators that the government's actions have been successful, effective and timely. Respected and respected, I hope, however, because I am optimistic that the objective of the opposition was not to make these indicators worse, so that today, and in the past weeks, they could strike after the current government, what they've done, what went wrong. But I can't somehow get rid of this feeling, even from today's debate a few moments ago, we have seen one such highly visual outburst, if I say so myself, but that's true. I really want us all to see in this budget that there are two billion, more than two billion euros for investments that will affect your life, the lives of your neighbors, the lives of your fellow countrymen, the lives of all who work in Slovenia, we create those who live in Slovenia. This is the fundamental objective pursued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by its actions, namely, the amendment of the Income Act, the Long-Terms Act, the Demographic Fund, the Demobilisation Act and also the budget for 2023, which we have before us today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Gradually, colleague Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you, President. Otherwise, you've changed, but the previous chairman, given that he warned me to talk about the budget and let others lie, it doesn't seem fair to me. Because if we were to talk about the real hole that the previous governments, the Yangtze government, have left twice as many as 10 billion, it's 20 billion, but we're not going to go into that because we're talking about the budget in 2023. Only a warning, if possible, not only is one being warned to talk about the budget, but all the same. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have indeed changed, and I must say that I have not fully understood the procedural proposal. You also know that the President cannot interfere with the debater's words, especially not in the sense of determining whether someone is telling the truth or not. Every Member is free to discuss. Of course, others can deny it, but when it comes to our business rules in turn for discussion. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Good-bye! Look, in the last year and a half, this government has produced 10 billion euros in deficits, and in the last three before that, an additional 10 billion. So we're talking about $20 billion together. If we add up the deficits for 2022 and 2023, this is an additional EUR 5 billion deficit. If we are talking about the tax reform they are announcing, there are also additional billions of euro deficits. And this is the result of the work of the SDS government. So I'm talking about 30 billion at a time when it's ruled over the last 20 years. And that's problematic, and that's the consequences, and that's the flood that this government keeps leaving. This is simply irresponsible. Also as far as the Long-Term Care Act is concerned, today we have spoken with representatives of social security institutions and have said that it is a simple exercise and a deception, that it is not a new service, but a social protection waiver. That's why you have to call it bob beans and [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is clear what this government is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Ferryan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Now I don't know if I represented Mr. Reich very well, but you know. The Slovenian Democratic Party has been on the government somewhere, if we look at it, for seven years, since we have a country of our own. And apparently we're in charge of 30 billion of this country. And I know you're not good with numbers, but that's probably what your electorate and the voters of those things you have don't believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Comrade Ferjan, that wasn't a replica either. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, whether anyone else is interested in the general debate or whether we can move on to a special part. Even in general? Just you, Comrade Siter? Two? Look, I'll pull the trigger, and please sign up. The computer will choose order. The first one has the word Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! But I will agree with Mr Ferryan on one thing he said in a crowd of other lies, and that is that politics is a priority. And what priorities does this government have, the most beautiful embossed of the current budget documents, where we have on the one hand, I call them jackpot winners several times in these discussions, and, on the other hand, total malnutrition. Of course, weapons are also here in 2023 one such jackpot winner of investment in the military significantly greater than, say, on the other hand, investment in health care, repression and so on. In short, let evergreen play list the current totalitarian and militaristic right authority. See, in 2022 and 2023, in the time frame covered by these documents, investments in arms are estimated at about 500 million there. True, the government here likes to boast that more money is being spent on health care. True, but when we look through the prism of actual investment in health care and weapons, here this balance is completely out of sanity. 133 million more for weapons than for health care, not to mention primary health care, which is here at all, I didn't know if I read correctly, at 7 million and a half investments. Primary health care, which, of course, goes hand in hand in the drying of municipal budgets. The municipalities are the ones who will be here to say homely, because, on the other hand, the parallel Income Law, where the government is gardening the 800-million-dollar hole, the annual hole, will be half of its deprived congregation. Thus, municipalities and municipalities are forced to invest more in pharmacy and primary health care at the same time. One such beautiful indicator of the priority that the SDS Member spoke about quickly is the budgetary action of government representatives in negotiating to raise salaries for those worst-paid in nursing homes. While, on the one hand, the government has no problem with 900 million supplements, which of course flow more into the pockets of doctors of amphibians, we have on the other hand this call after an increase in wages, which, of course, everyone applauded, was applauded by the unions, the Community of Social Institutions and so on. Who wouldn't want people standing in the front lines of fighting an epidemic in nursing homes, who wouldn't give them a little more or at least about a decent one? Well, it turns out that this will not be a country that will give them more resources, but that it will be pensioners who will give them more resources. So, this will not be saved by the budget, this will not be solved by the budget planning that we are now witnessing in the National Assembly, which the pensioners will be able to do. Pensioners, with already a hundred thousand already living with pensions below 500 euros, 150 000 living with pensions below 650 euros and 300 000 total living with pensions below 700 euros. Average supply, by the way, in the nursing home is €680. That, honourable Members of the right, is a matter of priority in politics. Just one quick response was a little bit comical with the list of achievements of non-governmental organisations from Metelkova 6. Have you ever had a little peek from your home, Mr. Ferrian? I mean, have you ever looked at the range Slovenian NGOs have in culture outside our borders? There you go. It's a list. I don't know, it works here, I think, one 20, 30 NGOs. I'm sorry that there's a man sitting in the National Assembly with such a narrow view of cultural creation, but that's a really painful conclusion and I don't want to go ad personam here, but, God help you, have you ever heard of Anne Knapp? Have you ever heard of Laibach? I know that the City of Women with its calls for equality in society is doing little work on your political agenda; I know that the Peace Institute and the Legal Information Centre are helping you people who need legal assistance to help refugees who find themselves in a difficult situation, asylum seekers, I know that this is a problem of your political agenda, but not a letter! – you are ashamed to work with such carelessness in front of the entire Slovenian public. You like to brag about how many viewers you have on your television broadcast these meetings. God help you, let's make something of yourself, come on! Thus, all the political priorities and the budget we have before us are the most clear indicator of the priority of this government, which, once again, stands in favour of the private and not the public, the provision of tax breaks, militarisation and the repressive deepening of the police state, and these are the priorities that are most visible. What one pensioner will have, I don't know, is a lady who is in a nursing home in Hrastnik, for example, from this budget, we don't know. [[advertising from the hall]] My friend says a new home. I hope this home will happen, but this is not at home, and this is not at home in this budget. This is not in the Long-Term Care Act at home. There is a lot of promise and writing about the intentions and the pressures of the hands, and I don't know what else, but a concrete plan, colleagues and colleagues, how we're going to solve this area, and I don't see it. We're talking about some debt, and I don't know what. Well, please, come on! So who cares? Who cares if he doesn't have a bed in the nursing home? Who cares if he can't feed his child? Who cares if he's scared of December because he's gonna hate it? Count your species and come with one document that will do something for people, not for your pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Ferryan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Unlike you, I'm really not going to go to the personal level. Come with a document so we can do something for the people. The new Income Act, the Long-Term Supply Act, the Demographic Fund, the draft law on demobilization and so on. There's a lot of suggestions, but you're against it in Levica. You're on the left! With regard to self-reflection, who will make something of himself, and so on, look, in 10, 20 years, the covid-19 epidemic will probably be just another memory. [[…]] But did we in this year, two years of vaccination, take action, be responsible or scold people to go to the streets and protest and overthrow the government? That, and it'll be written in history in 10 and 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. And I'm just going to start with, I'm going to say, with the moment of time, with the moment of day, and I'm going to throw the ball back on your side, with the reflection. Look, today you've essentially replaced, headed the police, replaced more than 50 commanders or directors of police administrations, and then you'll come to us now, after you've actually done some kind of silent coup, you'll come here to preach on the topic of the state budget. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yeah, sorry, that's right. Well, if it's reflexion or self-reflection, then it should be for everyone, not just for one. You look in the mirror, too. About your jumping and how you keep talking about how loud we are on this side – no matter how loud. If we were as loud on this side as you were over there, then the National Assembly would explode, at least this side, but no. On the other hand, you're really loud, and I'll tell you that a lot of times or I'll warn you because I'm listening. But you don't listen to me enough, and this is your main problem – that you don't know how to listen. Now we're going to the budget. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] So, the intro was saved. I have a very direct question for representatives of the government or for a representative of the government, if that explains it to me. Earlier, Mrs Alenka Bratušek made a very clear reference to the construction or completion of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. Are all these funds really provided now, or is it sand in the eyes again? Because now I'm going to say it directly, and I said it yesterday, and I'm going to say it again today. All the Members of the Lower Plum have tried, we are trying to finally see the light of the world, because it is happening and happening and happening and happening forever. In fact, all of us who come from this end are having a hard time going to our places, because we are constantly listening to this, people are constantly asking us this question for a reason, because the Lower Podravje urgently needs this emergency center. I really want to know now whether these funds are actually in the budget or not. I invited you to do this very nicely yesterday and also called for consideration that this missing part for the Ptuj Emergency Centre, which is a million and a half euros, is around here this price, fully covered by the country, as it did with the other emergency centres throughout Slovenia. Because it's the next thing. I didn't mention it yesterday because I saved it for today because I wanted to hear your answer yesterday. It's the next thing. The general hospital Ptuj has committed itself to selling land around the general hospital on Ptuj for the purpose of completing or financing this emergency centre for its financial part. All of us who also learn about financial structures or schemes, we know that if they don't get that exact number, and in this case a million and a half euros, then this financial scheme won't close and that the emergency centre will remain on the road or somewhere, as it has been so far. I'm lucky it was Mr. Member Duck who came here because he was the one who was 14. 2. 2019 called on the Committee on how to complete these emergency centres in Slovenia as soon as possible, and the Ptuj Emergency Centre in particular. At that time, we also had our mayor and director of the General Hospital Ptuj here at the board meeting. At that time, we adopted conclusions that this matter should be concluded or that it should be in the final stage. I will ask you once again if we leave now a million and a half euros as much as the General Hospital Ptuj is supposed to do, although I do not agree with this and I think that other Members do not agree because it is right if the state has taken care of the other emergency centres to take full financial care of the emergency centre in Ptuj. Once again, I ask you: is this financial part of the State or the Ministry arranged, provided or can we really count on this matter to be finally implemented? Not that we are being driven there by ministers, presidents of governments and anything else, and they just promise us, they promise us, and in the end, we remain empty-handed. I don't want that on Ptuj, in Ormož and around here anymore. We're not going. The following is the case with regard to the state budget. That was a lot of wallpaper yesterday, too. At a time when we should be dealing with a covid crisis, this government, or even the President of the government, is working on how to eliminate 50 police station directors or commanders. Where did we land? Instead of dealing with how to solve every life, how to solve this problem that is actually being solved with us – and we are lucky to be helped – by Italian doctors and Italian medical personnel. Good luck! This should be the work of both the Prime Minister and this government. But not that you're actually constantly, every day, for the purpose of, I'm afraid, you're making people nervous, you're making them desperate, and there's something else that's hopeless. If this is the only thing you know, then it would be right for everyone to step down right now. That's right. At least I'm hoping to tell myself if maybe someone else doesn't. Because to the Styrians, even from our end, no one will tie up our tongues or mouths about what we think of someone, even if we have an argument. Because the country has completely overlooked us too many times, or ours is still too often overlooked. We had an example of Safil. Ambassador Ivanuš can tell you the whole tragedy of this story. Even now, cases are not resolved and you are reducing the item when it comes to social transfers or compensation for unemployed persons. Incomprehensible! There are things happening in Boxmark every month that no one is really following them anymore. People stay on the road, no whole family jobs. And you're telling us here how great everything is, how do you increase the share of employees – where?Oh, my God! In Ormož, there's actually a social bomb on Ptuj and in the area! Come on. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Sorry, if you only live in one Ljubljana, we don't all live in Ljubljana, we drive every day from Ptuj or from Ormož I'm on Ptuj [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, anyway, you're around here, center of Slovenia. One of us is not at home in the center of Slovenia, and for this reason we also have to fight a lot of times with the center to get something on the periphery or that we can decentralize something and that some pieces come to our side. As previously explained by his colleague, Comrade Siter, this budget is indeed like a bubble or an idea in the clouds. I'm afraid that when you have to get off this cloud – I'm not going to say trap because I don't want you to do this – you'll have to step down – when you get off this cloud, you'll see what dreams and mists you've actually lived in. Because that's incomprehensible. Once again, instead of dealing with the things that we are now supposed to be dealing with, the real solution to coronaryism or the underlying crisis, we read, listen constantly, every day, how you stopped how you would take someone here, how you would take someone's revenge. People have you full of suitcases and they're tired of you. I can tell you that. Even your electoral base, now you're gonna freak out, you're already full of suitcases. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Worse yet, yes, Franjo, bravo! Something worse, yeah. But I'm not gonna say this or speak this way because it's not appropriate. As it is said, let yourself focus and reflect yourself or look in the mirror and realize once again that not only Ljubljana is a center, but we live people on the edge or out of this center, in the most beautiful part of Slovenia in the east, Ptuj, Ormož, Maribor. Life there is quite different than it is here. I have a feeling that one of you has slightly forgotten that even those of you who have managed to come here to Ljubljana, to live here in Ljubljana, have slightly forgotten where you used to live or where you came from. That's what I'm putting on your heart to remind you of where you came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Special Part of the Complementary Budget. Anybody want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 15 November 2021. We are moving to the budgetary user 1311 of the Constitutional Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the activities of the Constitutional Court and the amendments of the parliamentary groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Just one debater? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor, Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Here we have tabled an amendment of EUR 949 000, reducing the infrastructure and equipment of the Slovenian Army and putting it into the Constitutional Court. Why? Because the Constitution has a special place in the Republic of Slovenia, because it creates confidence in the country and its institutions and prevents uncertainty or perhaps even fear of authority or any other repression and violation of rights. This is very current today under this government. Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed attempts to undermine confidence in the institutions of the country, a confidence that has been built for three decades. At the same time, in recent years, the Constitutional Court has been facing chronic overcrowding as a defender of the Constitution. As early as 2020, it proposed an increase in resources for new jobs and additional premises, which they believe would allow a faster trial, but the government did not take this into account in the proposed budgets for 2022 and 2023. In view of the fact that the increase in funds under the amendment for 2022 is not possible, the Constitutional Court will have to continue to operate in the existing premises and also in the human resources framework, which will also have an impact on efficiency. We therefore propose that these 949,000 euros be additionally earmarked for the activities of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting forward a sub-programme on the implementation of foreign policy and EU affairs and on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Just one debater? [[Yeah.]] Colleague Andrea Zabret, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, President. Slovenian diplomacy is often handled by individuals who are driven, but in addition to all the strategies written down, it needs to be provided with more resources. In the coming years, diplomatic engagement will be important in particular due to the unnecessary remediation of the damage caused to the reputation that this government has caused in the last year and a half in the wider international community. The constant trend on Twitter has not gone unnoticed. The insults of the newly elected President of the United States, the controversy with German diplomats, the stabbing of European Members with the colonial past of their countries and the latest jabbering towards the European Parliament's Committees' mission and the Dutch case, all of which prompted many articles in prominent foreign publications, where it was possible to see above all astonishment and astonishment. Unfortunately, the human resources problem in the DKPs no longer allows diplomatic action, but simply focusing on administrative tasks due to insufficient numbers and insufficient professional technical personnel paid. The proposed increase of 5 million funds follows the objective of representing a number of qualified Slovenian colours abroad and, perhaps more importantly, motivated diplomats, as the awareness of the importance of good and correct diplomatic relations has died out in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to discuss the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Preparedness of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the two amendments of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In the draft budget of the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and rescue of 2022, 2023 it is not possible to find an item for the payment of fire insurance, as set out in the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities. The FFRO foresees that, in 2021, the Minister of Defence will produce appropriate acts on the basis of which the financing of firefighters by the State will be initiated, and not more, as was the case with the local communities. This amount would in fact relieve the budgets of the municipalities, while ensuring adequate firefighting coverage. Unfortunately, however, the Defence Minister has not yet done so and this government does not foresee in both budgets. This is particularly problematic, since the municipalities now do not know how to deal with future firefighters' insurance, whether they should continue to plan their funds in the budgets of the municipalities, or whether they should conclude new insurance contracts themselves, or whether they should negotiate with insurance companies for some time-limited insurance. Surely, such behaviour by the Ministry of Defence has created a completely opposite situation, as already foreseen by the proposer during our government, as Minister Rudy Medved and the National Assembly adopted in 2020. Instead of laying the groundwork for the safe operation of fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers, even the regulation of fire extinguishers so far is questioned. Of course, this is why we propose that these 4 million be earmarked for firefighters' insurance, so that we actually know who will pay for it, given that we adopted that law at the time. I also wish that this government, which is making us such a million and billions of puffs, is aware that it is cool for firefighters to be paid out of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2430 of the Ministry of Infrastructure and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Renewable Energy Sources and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network and the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2550 of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste water management and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated groups. Colleague Andrea Zabret and then Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, President. It's an extremely important amendment. This is an alternative source of drinking water in Anhove. There are areas in Slovenia where clean drinking water is not reliable. One of them is Anhovo. A place still paying a high blood tax due to industrial asbestos pollution is also at risk today that drinking water flowing from taps is not appropriate. In order to ensure the provision of drinking water in the Municipality of Kanal ob Soči, a new independent source of drinking water is needed to ensure connection to the water supply system of Mrzlek. The cost of construction of the pipeline is estimated at €200,000. 500 000 euros is for the amendment in 2022, and we also tabled it, and 700 000 euros in 2023. This project shall be implemented over a period of two years. Currently, a thousand 100 people are being used for water supply, owned by Salonit Anhovo, which draws water from the Soča River, and the asbestos pipeline is being transported across the industrial area. Water from Soča is the only major water source nearby, and since there is no independent reserve water source, and the inhabitants are running out of drinking water in pollution, it is really time for this matter to be settled. They also become completely dependent on fire tankers at a certain point, so as I have already mentioned, a new independent water source is urgently needed. It is unacceptable that residents are dependent on one private water source which can be used at any time for the possible blackmail of the municipality or residents by Salonit Anhovo. As part of the construction of the necessary water supply, they would also completely avoid the industrial area of the Salonit Anhovo cement plant, thus providing drinking water that people would drink without fear, thereby saving people's lives and only quality. So we ask for the support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this amendment myself. The amendment is divided into two financial years, 2022 and 2023. In the first year, it is estimated at 500 000 euros, in the second year with 700 000 euros, which is a little bit of money, but when we call it budget change. What is most problematic here is the fact that we actually have in Slovenia in 2021 areas where people do not have access to drinking water. This is crucial in understanding this problem. And that people don't have access to drinking water because on the other hand, one company has the power to limit it. And that it can actually use its power, its capital power, its social power in this local community to achieve its objectives and that it can also count on it in the future. That it is happening in Slovenia, in Europe in 2021, so that a company with water can blackmail the local community, I think the most alarming problem we can solve is that we can solve it very elegantly – by allowing Anhove to join this new water source, which will be independent of the existing one, which is therefore held by a company in scissors. Of course, we take into account that, in addition, Soca, as in this work, in this current, is not okay. This is pointed out by the profession, warned doctors, alerted environmental and environmental organisations. The pumping of water from a river so close to an industrial plant so close to such an important road simply does not meet the qualifications for a clean and clean water source. As it is said, the solution, as proposed by this amendment, is in addition to this new independent water source. Allow me to point out that as someone who lives in the immediate vicinity of a similar story that has taken place in my local community in Trbovje, I would like to point out that in such a problem, politics must come to the people's side. In Trbovje we had a long time with Lafarge cement plant and a 20-year long story of blackmailing local communities, then endangering health, endangering safety and so on. Fortunately, for now in the Rippers we can boast of some victory of civil society, a victory of environmentalists who have stopped further harming and destroying the environment by their civil action. I sincerely hope that at this point, Slovenian policy will also go beyond all reasonableness and will take a stand for people in Anhovem and in fact only provide them with what the Constitution provides, and this is access to drinking water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the six sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Training and Education and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of the Employment Initiative and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Colleague Andrea Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. In view of the covida-19 epidemic and its far-reaching effects on the economy that we are still expecting, we can also expect an increase in unemployment in 2023, especially given the fact that most of the state aid received after the CAP is already running out by the end of this year. As a result, such a reduction in resources under this programme – a reduction of almost four-fifths – is foreseen in the Employment Initiative sub-programme. To this end, we are proposing an amendment which in 2023 would allocate significantly more resources to promote employment than envisaged in the draft budget for 2023, so we are increasing the funds of 10 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to promote the development of NGOs and civil and social dialogue and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you. The reduction of funds to NGOs in almost all policies is unacceptable and shows the Government's current attitude towards them. We know how many there are, we know what they're doing, we know they're doing a lot of work that this country doesn't do, and we should. Therefore, it is unacceptable, as it is said, that money is being taken away from them simply because someone in this government obviously does not like it. We add 169 000 euros to the heading Promoting the development of NGOs and civil and social dialogue. The social dialogue with this government and among non-governmental actors, as well as others, we have already spoken a lot, but we will not repeat it again, but it is essential that the funds do not go down for NGOs and for civil dialogue itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	The hall is beautiful. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Money Social Assistance and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, SAB and the amendment of the Levica Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. In Levica we propose a very simple solution to alleviate the problem of growing poverty in Slovenia. According to an evaluation of the implementation in 2021, funds for monetary social assistance will be reduced by 32 million in 2022 and by an additional 21 million in 2023. The government justifies its move by the fact that we are witnessing economic growth and that we are witnessing a decline in the number of unemployed people because the numbers have been verified, which is otherwise good news. However, in this formula it should be borne in mind that even in the case of higher rates of economic growth, higher employment, as a result of the lower number of beneficiaries of the money social assistance itself, higher prices of basic living needs require an increase in financial social assistance. In other words, even if the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance are less, – to use this word more poor, more justified – they simply have less resources to survive and the raising of monetary social assistance items is necessary. So even if we have fewer poor people at home, they are poorer, and we need to rent them. In the Parliamentary procedure, we have tabled a amendment to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which takes that conclusion into account. The problem with calculating the minimum cost of living that we are witnessing today, which is the basis for calculating monetary social assistance, social transfers and for calculating the minimum wage, is that it is obsolete. It was last dosed in 2015, 2016 and is in any event not up to date. We propose that the calculation of the minimum cost of living be carried out on a cut-off date of 1. 1. The following year and in this way update and purchase the rising price of both energy and other cost of living. Then we can come from social transfers and calculation of the minimum wage from there. If you ask where we're going to take this from, the proposed €40 million to implement the legal change we're proposing is a simple answer. On the item that receives the most attention from the current government at the investment address, and this is arms. Some time ago, someone on social networks made a joke of the question: Is NATO like the World Book, where you commit to buying something every year? A bit of a joke, but in the light of the economic and social crisis in which we found ourselves and in which we must first take care of the weakest, that is a painful conclusion. It should be pointed out that in Slovenia at this time, despite the fact that the government likes to brag about the fact that it has reduced unemployment, the number of people living below the poverty line is significantly higher. Today this number is about 260 thousand people. 100,000 of these are pensioners, and 40,000 — the most painful number — are children. In general, poverty in Slovenia is deepening. Monetary social assistance is one of the social transfers that can be used here as corrective. Therefore, this amendment proposes that we strengthen this segment, offer €40 000 in the financial year 2023, so that the proposal of the Law on Social Security benefits can be brought back to life with our changes and that we can implement it and that in fact the weakest will actually have some of these budgetary documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711 of the Ministry of Health and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting investment investments at the primary level and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of education and sport, as well as the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups and the amendments of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you. The state of mental health of children and young people and the availability of professional care in this area are more than problematic. I hope we're all aware of that in this house. In solving the mental health crisis in education, we cannot really count on health or social care, these things will have to be solved in schools themselves. Addressing this crisis is certainly a priority, as it predicts major problems in the future integration of these young individuals into the labour market as well. Thus, investment in preventive action is necessary, that is in education itself. School mental health needs to be strengthened, which can be achieved mainly through strengthening advisory services. We've been talking about this in LMŠ for a while. These are important from the point of view of assistance and integration, such as educational, psychosocial, career, advice to children and to young people as well as to parents. They are also important in terms of burdening, supporting and educating teaching staff in collectives. In this light, it is particularly important to note the need for additional support, saying advisory services, including those that play an increasingly crucial role in the prevention of mental health or in the development of a safe and stimulating climate in classes. However, many teachers, not just parents, need support in all of this and must also adapt to changing classroom situations. Today is, for example, one day when classmates have to do some work, and this is not their task in the first place. The proposed government budget for the next two years contains only the necessary changes in the staffing standards for secondary schools, but does not contain changes for primary schools or changes for kindergartens. To this end, we are proposing this amendment, and we want this minister — who cannot even say a word — to understand that she must also support professional colleagues, teachers, counselors in schools and kindergartens. This is her priority or at least it should be. But it seems she won't do it, so we've done it in the opposition and we hope for the wisdom of at least these people here in the National Assembly if the Minister can't get through this wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3340 of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4111 of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Judicial Procedures and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4215 of the Celje District Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4216 of the Koper District Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4217 of the Kranj District Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4218 of the District Court in Ljubljana and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4219 of the Maribor District Court and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4220 of the District Court in Murska Sobota and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4221 of the District Court in Novi Gorica and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4222 of the New Town District Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4223 of the District Court in Krske and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4224 of the District Court on Ptuj and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4225 of the District Court in Slovenj Gradec and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion an alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities and amendments by the SAB Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the National Assembly meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period from 2022 to 2024. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Katji Lautar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. For the pay phone, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to present a proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2022 to 2024. I believe that we have already heard a great deal in the decrees that come mainly from the budgets submitted for the years 2022 and 2023, as well as from all other units in the state sector. The content of the decree itself relates to raising the expenditure ceiling in 2022 by a billion 65 million to 26 billion 105 million. This will reduce the target deficit from 5.7 to 5.5% of GDP. After the cash flow, the allowed ceiling of expenditure will increase by 650 million, to EUR 13 billion 950 million for the state budget and the target deficit will decrease from 4.9% of GDP to 4.6%. The expenditure limit for local units of the state sector will also increase by 89 million, to 2 billion 495 and the projected surplus remains unchanged. For pension expenditure, the ceiling increases by 180 million, to 6 billion 480. In 2023, the country's spending ceilings, namely 935 million, are also increasing to 25 billion 980 million. This will reduce the deficit by 0.5 percentage points, to 3.3% of GDP. Therefore, after the cash flow, the allowed ceiling of expenditure will increase by 305 million for the state budget, the deficit will decrease by 1 percentage point, to 2.6 % of GDP. For local units of the sector, both the state and pension funds are amended in 2022 and 2023 only by the ceilings of expenditure of 95 million and 160 million respectively. Why is the volume of the state budget increasing after the cash flow? In particular, due to the use of EU Structural Funds funds, the Recovery and Resistance Plan and the provision of investments in health and education, as well as the increased transfer to pension funds due to the coordination of pensions, also due to some further or transferred measures following the cash flow to control the epidemic. The amount of expenditure for municipalities also increases slightly due to investments, of course it should not be forgotten that European funds are being used to a large extent in the municipalities. The scope of the pension fund is increasing due to the changed assumptions for the coordination of pensions, in particular a better nominal contribution rate. On this basis, public financial targets for the state sector are also being adapted. Such amendments therefore allow for an appropriate level of expenditure to support initial recovery when the deficit and debt are gradually reduced over the next two years. Let me say that the attention to reducing both the deficit and the debt is focused primarily on the appropriate speed and further debate that is taking place at European Union level at this moment. Nevertheless, there is still a need to allocate some resources in the future to deal with the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. Despite the favourable macroeconomic environment and encouraging forecasts, it is worth noting that there are still very high risks and uncertainties, both projections and projections change, and we are often faced with the resurgence of infections and the requirements for the continuation of some measures. It should also be borne in mind that all sectors in the economy are not recovering equally, but are now at the forefront of measures to promote recovery. Without these measures, the impact of the crisis may be longer and recovery may be at risk. As has already been said many times, at national level and also at EU level in 2022, there is still an exceptional situation and a so-called general withdrawal clause from fiscal rules, allowing for an appropriate fiscal policy response, but above all it is important that the guidelines for the functioning of fiscal policy are not yet adopted in 2023 and that the Commission values Slovenian budgets only quantitatively. Nevertheless, the government is reducing the government's deficit, and in 2024 it will fall below three, and debt in GDP will also decline with such dynamics and speeds over a three-year period as in the EU. The withdrawal of measures to support economic activity is planned gradually, and too quickly withdrawal could jeopardise the beginning of recovery, which we would like to avoid. If I finish. The focus is on recovery, which is adjusted by fiscal policy over the next two years, with the greatest attention being paid. The correction of the deficit and the debt must follow both quality and quantity, so the proposal for a decision is, in our opinion, appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 62nd urgent meeting on 22 October this year, the Finance Committee considered as its parent working body the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period from 2022 to 2024, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The amendments to the draft decree were not tabled. The opening presentation was presented by the Minister of Finance, who presented the substantive amendments to the draft decree and the reasons for them, taking into account the current situation and the fact that the pandemic has not yet been resolved. There are still exceptional circumstances to derogate from the fiscal rules that are still in force and will also apply in 2022. For Slovenia, economic rejection was favourable and has a good rating. In these circumstances, fiscal and monetary policies will continue to be encouraging, as the European Commission's policy foresees. The Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the proposal for a decree. The President of the Fiscal Council presented a written assessment of the budgetary documents. Extensive measures have been taken and it is estimated that the conditions for exceptional circumstances are also met for 2022. He further presented three components of the expenditure side of the budgets, namely expenditure related to the epidemic, current expenditure and investment. The expenditure is largely in line with the guidelines and is temporary and focused on addressing the direct consequences of the epidemic. The action of around 5% of gross domestic product annually in 2020 and 2021 has made an important contribution to mitigating the decline in economic activity in last year and to the recovery this year. So this is the position of the Fiscal Council. The President of the Fiscal Council felt that certain deficiencies had arisen in the framework of the measures, in particular with regard to payments of allowances. With regard to investments, he said that they should be adequately targeted and effective, while at the same time pointing out the absorption capacity or capacity of the economy and administration. He considered that it would be necessary to give priority to investments financed by grants. With regard to public debt, he said that in 2023 and 2024 it would remain much higher than before the crisis, at just below 80 % of gross domestic product. In particular, the President of the Fiscal Council stressed that the basic fiscal policy is appropriate at serious risks and presents a long-term challenge, but needs to adapt to the state of the economy. Following the meeting, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the decree took into account the autumn forecast, which is the basis for the budgetary documents. The forecasts are consistent with the forecasts of international institutions and the economic recovery structure is mainly related to exports, increased personal consumption and investment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. The Committee on Finance, as its parent working body, has not adopted any amendments to the proposal for a decree, and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Regulations on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period from 2022 to 2024 be adopted in the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! For this point, after two days of discussion on the state budget for 2022 and 2023, we are discussing a decision on the framework for the preparation of the state sector's budgets. At first we talked about state budgets, and now we are talking about the height that should be the basis for these budgets. First of all, the criticism is that we have dealt with the budget first, but now we have gone to talk about the amount of resources that could be allocated to these budgets. This path is, in my opinion, absolutely wrong or wrong. Another big mistake is that these decisions change practically every two months. I think this government has already brought five or six amendments to the National Assembly this year and a half. This is supposed to be a document that shows, for some medium-term period, what is the trend, what is happening to our public finances or the budgets of the country's sector. But okay, this is just a sad picture of Slovenian public finances right now. The fact is, you're raising total expenditure by almost a billion. The fact is that you are increasing the budget expenditure from your last change to today by just over 650 million. And the fact is, you found out that you made a big mistake at the pension register. A mistake or you had other intentions. In June we dealt with the same decree in the National Assembly, the same year, 2022, and then you proposed a reduction of EUR 230 million in pension funds. 230 million euros. Of course, I did, and at the time, at the Sab party, we warned that you were obviously planning pension interventions, that you were obviously planning to take something away from the pensioners. Either you heard us or you just realized your mistake, I don't know, but anyway, today you're providing these pension funds, 6 billion 480, that's 180 million more than you planned in June. For a long time, throughout the budget adoption process, I want an answer from the Ministry of Finance, ministers, secretaries of state, what would happen to pensions if I had announced the previous amount. I don't get it. And I'm telling you that pensions should be reduced by about 3%. Apparently, that's what this government meant, and since we've exposed it in time, it's changed its mind, and now, I'm going to say, from the second pocket, by raising prices in the DSOs, it's going to take that pensioner in roughly the same amount. You've adjusted your pensions by 2.5% this year, you're going to raise your retirement homes by almost 6%, so the delta is out there somewhere, just over 3% you're going to take the pensioners who live in the DSOs. Unfortunately, it's a reality. But anyway, I'm glad you found out that the pension register needs more money, and you assured that. The image of public finances is poor. Historically high public debt. Historically high public debt, each Slovenian is in charge of more than 20,000 euros or, I will recover, a debt of 20,000 euros for each Slovenian. These same Slovenians are going to be or we're going to have to return this. Of course, when the side turns and you are in opposition, you will once again cry out how much public debt is too great and how VAT should be reduced. It hasn't been that way for a while. A poor public financial picture, a historically high public debt, the highest structural deficit in the euro area and everything that needs to be done, you are forecasting for a period after your government. You're predicting a pension reform after 2024. I wonder what you would do in this pension reform. Probably hung on people's shoulders to work till the '70s or I don't know what year. So much work, much hard work awaits us after this historically poor government and also historically poor results. Of course, we will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budgetary framework, which sets the ceiling for expenditure, is one of the measures that increase budgetary transparency and improve the planning of expenditure of all four public funds. In the market economy, the information role of macroeconomic strategies, forecasts and policies is crucial. The Government, the Central Bank and other institutional authorities shall thus communicate their objectives, basic management parameters, a system framework. In accordance with the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly adopted a Framework Decision for the preparation of State budget for the period from 2022 to 2024 this year. This set out the target balance and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of the State sector for each financial year, as well as the target balance and maximum allowable amounts of expenditure for each cash public funding in those years following the cash flow. This time, the government proposes to amend the decree on work for the next two years due to changed circumstances. An increase in the expenditure of the state sector, the state budget, municipal budgets and pension funds is proposed. The increases are justified by the increased needs in the context of dealing with the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, taking into account the planned investments in health care, the implementation of European cohesion policy programmes and legal obligations from the pension fund. Members of the Desus Group point out that, in order to improve the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development over the next two years, additional resources in the state budget will also need to be provided for the legal harmonisation of pensions with salaries and the rise in the prices of living needs. This will require a higher transfer to the pension register. Next year, it will be necessary to provide an estimated € 156 million and € 152 million in 2023. This will increase the expenditure of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and therefore the expenditure limit for the transitional year will need to be increased from 6 billion 300 million to 6 billion 480 million and in 2023 from 6 billion 480 million to 6 billion and 640 million euros. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we also listened to warnings from the Fiscal Council about perhaps excessive speed of conversion from expansion to a somewhat more restrictive fiscal policy. This could pose a risk to the fulfilment of all legal obligations under the State budget. Expansive fiscal policy on the other hand, according to the Fiscal Council, poses a risk of not achieving the medium-term fiscal objective. How economic policy makers should act to minimise the risks, so where is the optimal distinction between both types of policy, between expansion and restrictive, we have not heard of this at all. It is also quite clear why we have not heard this — because no one knows it. In uncertainty, everything can turn out to be a cause and all comparisons can only be informative. In particular, structural, development and regional government policies will be crucial in this regard, and then implementation projects with the largest economic multipliers and social promoters are here. The main objective in dealing with the epidemic should be to fully recover, because it is a fleeting phenomenon, the consequences of which can be influenced to minimise the final damage. Then it is necessary to restore a life that has stopped but has not changed. Life during the epidemic has certainly not been destroyed, but it is clear that after recovery it can be better, as it could have been before the epidemic. Members of the Desus Group will support the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2022 to 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. State secretary with a team, respectable colleagues and good evening! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will not support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024. As regards the proposal for a decree, it should first be clarified that the Government prepared it on the basis of the fact that the Fiscal Council assessed in September that the conditions for the existence of exceptional circumstances were also exposed in 2022, mainly due to uncertainty as to the continuation of the epidemic. The European Commission also decided this spring that the general derogation clause would apply not only in 2021 but also in 2022. As you know, the Government must also determine the eligible amount of expenditure despite the possible temporary derogation from the medium-term public financial position due to exceptional circumstances. The proposal for a framework relating to the two proposals referred to in the State budgets contains amended ceilings for the years 2022 and 2023. The fiscal council is strongly held back to this motion for a decision for a reason. This year we're going to have almost a 4-billion-dollar government deficit, mostly due to cod measures. The next two budgets, for 2022 and 2023, will have 2.5 billion and 1.5 billion government deficits due mainly to investment expenditure, which is not bad to some extent, but should be invested according to their capabilities. The government will finance both deficits exclusively through debt. While the Minister of Finance optimistically predicts that the debt share will go down on condition that the projected economic growth is being achieved, which means that the Minister of Finance, despite the fact that the world has been facing two global crises since 2008, predicts at least a decade of stable 5 to 6% economic growth and that spending should not be adjusted or changed, it should remain at the same level. This means that Slovenia could compare itself with China or that Slovenia would repeat the story of Ireland, which has risen from the bottom of the European Union in a decade to the highest economic growth. In doing so, the Minister forgets how Ireland, from an economic miracle called the Celtic Tiger, has transformed itself into one of the biggest hospitals among the members of the euro area. It is already quite symptomatic that Irish public finances were based on debt alone and, above all, on debt by 2008. The former Governor of Banka Slovenije, France Arhar, is also not impressed by the government's current public policy, which makes it not a problem for the high public down because it will be tamed by high economic growth and low interest rates. It points out that Slovenia is a small and vulnerable player, and every creditor is not afraid to recover debt. Our public debt has reached a record level of around €40 billion or 86% of GDP this summer. Slovenia was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2014 and that it wanted to be taken over by an infamous troika, although public debt reached only 45 % of the gross social product at that time. Therefore, we must not ignore the fact that Slovenia will have to refinance EUR 3 billion of public debt by 2030 each year. In addition, some economists are forecasting around 3% of inflation this year, which means that interest rates will start to rise in the coming year and that loans will be auctioned. Small countries must therefore lead more cautious fiscal policies. The Fiscal Council also draws attention to the attitude of the budgetary policy, which is too expansive. According to estimates used by the Fiscal Council for the assessment of fiscal frameworks, these reflect an overexpenditure of about less than a billion euros over the economic cycle. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree with the assessment that fiscal policy in the light of current assessments could be encouraging even without the expected increase in the ceilings of maximum expenditure. Otherwise, in the parliamentary group, we estimate that in the short term, we will have to correct the proposed decree again. The decree does not include an increase in health and social protection wages agreed recently. This will be shown in the country's accounts, but there is no presence in the draft budget documents. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is expected to finance the increase to the greatest extent, according to the available data is around EUR 120 million, which is the only one among the public finances, for which no expenditure changes are foreseen in the proposed budget documents. On the basis of all the above facts, we will not support the proposed decree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, all of you, have a nice greeting! Colleagues, colleagues, we have before us a decree amending the Country Budget Framework Decision for the period from 2022 to 2024. In view of the changed circumstances in the light of the impact of the epidemic, investment in health and the implementation of European cohesion policy programmes in the adoption of the National Assembly, the Government forwarded a change to the state budget for 2022 and a proposal for a state budget for 2023 and, at the same time, forwarded accompanying budgetary documentation to the National Assembly, namely the amendment of the decree and the ZIPRS. The amendments to the decree provide for higher expenditure of the state sector, the state budget, municipal budgets and pension funds in the years 2022 and 2023. Expenditure is increased to ensure adequate protection of the population due to co-vid, increased spending of European funds, provision of additional investments in health care and the resolution of long-term care problems, infrastructure projects, budget reservations, public sector wage increases and modified financing of municipalities in order to balance their development. For the purpose of strengthening the resilience of the economy, the European Commission confirmed for 2022 the existence of exceptional circumstances or confirmed the continuation of the general derogation clause allowing for a temporary derogation from the fiscal rule. However, for 2022 there was at least one condition of exceptional circumstances, the Fiscal Council also allowed a temporary derogation from fiscal rules. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you, President. With the amendment of the decree, the government proposes that the maximum expenditure of the state sector be increased by one billion and 65 million for 2023 and 935 million for 2023. The amendment of the decree will therefore lay the groundwork for all four public cash registers to raise expenditure of 2 billion. The first thing to think about in this context is, of course, a comment by the Fiscal Council on both budgets, that budgetary expenditure is overestimated and that it gives room to manoeuvre for non-transparent consumption, with their President pointing out the pre-election year 2022. With regard to the budget for 2023, however, he said that the planned expenditure seemed unrealistic. Such a low level is simply in conflict with existing legislation, he assessed. Right now, let's say we're going to raise the ceiling for the 2021 budget expenditure by 800 million in April, and now for 670 million more. But what happened to us? There is no balance to show where the funds are going, and only a maximum of 300 million expenditure is explained in the explanation. About where the remaining 370 million go, not the spirit or the hearing. We understand that you may feel a little embarrassed that you have already spent almost a billion dollars on salary allowances, but at least tell us that this is also the case. Why it is intended to raise expenditure of 370 million, we can only guess in the National Assembly. That is why we proposed to ZIPRS in the Committee on Finance a deletion of an article that would allow the amount of expenditure to be raised without a balance, but you were against it. The budget loss to be made by the Government in 2022 and 2023 will amount to EUR 4 billion. Together, in four years, from 2020 to 2024, this amount is astronomical, amounting to EUR 11.5 billion of the budget deficit, which the Government covers with the country's debt, that is, people, each of us. And why are we in debt? The poor management of the epidemic and the uncontrolled use of public finances continued this year and caused an even greater loss. In the state budget, there will be a new 4-billion-dollar hole. Of this, 2.2 billion euro has been allocated to health care and aid related to the covid epidemic, including to high covid additives, which have been disproportionately distributed, and only irresponsible spending can be said for the remainder. The fiscal council also points out the inflatability of investment expenditure, as it is expected to increase by an additional EUR 658 million this year. Although the Ministry of Finance had already indicated over-optimisation planning for 2021 at the time of the preparation of the implementation assessment, it had reduced the estimate by 460 million according to the current budget. The government also increases consumption in the reserve item, in 2022 by 778 million and in 2023 by 833 million. But don't explain why he's targeting these two jokers. The government raises expenditure, encouraged by the release of fiscal work, with uncritical support in Parliament, cheap money and the fact that we are in the pre-election year and therefore a pre-election budget. For all the reasons listed above, we will vote in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca against the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period from 2022 to 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This government has lost its grip on everything, including the supervision of public finances. There has been a lot of talk about the situation in which we are living, and it is clear that the situation is still unpredictable and that it is not easy to implement the frameworks set by this National Assembly. The budget framework is a key element in helping us keep public finances under control. It works by first limiting the maximum permitted total consumption and then adopting the budget and its cuts. This government has been in violation of this rule since its first day. It refers to an exceptional situation by constantly putting Parliament before the facts that have been carried out. It redistributes the funds itself beyond limits and then reports to Parliament and asks it to amend the framework again. We are now even placed in a situation where we are either discussing or voting first on a cost-effective budget, and only then should we confirm the decree that gives rise to a renewed sum of expenditure, which we raised last year and this April. With this government, all of this has become a habit. To go beyond all the frameworks and to make sure that the implementation of the plans that we confirm on her proposal in this house deviates greatly from the budgetary plans. For 1 billion and a half over-expenditures, for the second billion behind in European spending, record debt growth and a whole range of new costs, which are not only linked to the fight against the epidemic, but will continue to burden a long range of budgets. All of these are also circumstances in which the government again insists on spending more than it committed about a month ago. We are also adding to this the ZIPRS proposal, which will be discussed at the next item on the agenda. In it, the Government asks for the power to redistribute budgetary resources beyond the budget by limiting it to a mere decree when spending. The government would rule with decrees and redistributions, and then it would only inform us. And this is actually the only bright point – that the Government still needs the support of this assembly to carry out its unrealistic and harmful plans. And instead of respecting the boundaries and allocations determined by the Constitution, the National Assembly expects it to sign a new cheque. The Fiscal Council presented to the Committee a written assessment of the budgetary documents and said that the state of public finances was not good, that Slovenia, as a small, open economy, could not afford to increase public debt after each crisis by 15 to 20 % of gross domestic product and then, at higher levels, found it necessary to create more room for manoeuvre. We add to this: this government does not create any more maneuverable space, but binds it in an extremely dangerous direction. Your Honor, every government is responsible for keeping the wheel in its own hands. At the moment, at least the financial levers of our common money cannot be managed enough to trust its plans, so we cannot support this motion for a decree in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! The decree on the framework for the preparation of the sector's budgets is a document setting out the ceiling of expenditure and the objectives of the balance, i.e. the planned deficit or surplus of the State sector, covering the state budget, the municipal budgets and the health and pension allowance for a three-year period. The decrees and budgetary acts for 2022 and 2023 in Levica will not be supported because they mean the continuation of the completely flawed fiscal policy of the Janša government. This gives us a clear message through the budget documents by 2023 – with tax gifts and subsidies for capital and the rich, with additions for the most paid and arms deals we will spend the state budget and then we will put an account for our queries to the people who will have to tighten the belts again. Following record deficits in 2020 and 2021, high deficits will also accumulate in 2022 and 2023. The net public debt of the state budget will increase by an additional EUR 3.5 billion over the next two years, according to the government's assessment. However, the problem is not in budget spending as such; in Levica, we support the increase in expenditure on public health, social state and public investment, by ensuring, on the other hand, a simultaneous increase in budgetary revenues, in particular those relating to capital taxes and wealth. We strongly oppose government spending public money for socially useless purposes while reducing taxes on rich and capital. In the policy of the current government, we are thus monitoring the senseless commitments made to buy weapons worth €780 million and more than €900 million for supplements in the pockets of overpaid dentists, tax exemptions for the best paid, which will anoint the revenue of the state budget for an additional €800 million each year. On the one hand, the Fiscal Council points out that the assessment of the expenditure of the State budget for 2022 is unrealistically high and the assessment of expenditure for 2023 is unrealistically low. Compared to 2022, expenditure on the state budget is expected to fall by EUR 580 million. However, the reason is not only that funds for intervention measures are being cut, which would be understandable when the epidemiological situation improves, but also that there is a reduction in the growth of non-epidemic current expenditure. The projected reduction in current expenditure in 2023 provides for austerity measures. The government therefore intends to re-examine the poor for its mega-Romanian queries. History repeats itself. The first Janša government in 2005 to 2008, at the time of the historically highest growth rates with expansionary fiscal policy, fuelled overheating of the economy while reducing income for the rich and profit tax drained the state budget. In 2012, the second Janša government with Zujf put all the costs of solving the crisis, which it itself caused, on the shoulders of the poor. Every time Jansev's government appears in power, he leaves behind exhausted public finances. This leads to the decommissioning of the social state, leading to the decommissioning of public infrastructure and the deterioration of the standard of living of people. This is exactly the kind of clairvoyant future the budget decree for the years 2022 and 2023, which we will not support in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024 will be supported by Members and Members of the New Slovenia. In New Slovenia we are aware of how well we are aware that budget documents are being dealt with and accepted in emergency situations. The virus strongly, still very strongly paralyses our lives, our economy, our Slovenian society. Amendments to the decree are necessary in order to allow for an adequate amount of expenditure to be incurred to deal with the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, including investments in health care, the implementation of European cohesion policy programmes, including at municipal level, and the legal obligations of the pension fund. In other words, to be against this decree means to be against the appropriate amount of expenditure to deal with the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, to be against this decree means to be against health investments. I recall that we have adopted a law that provides a good €2 billion for the next decade. To be against this decision means to be against the implementation of European cohesion policy, including at the level of the municipalities, and to be against it also means to be against the rise in pensions. It's so simple. The appropriate recovery path will be ensured when the deficit and debt as a percentage of GDP are gradually reduced over the next two years. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also plans to reduce the deficit below 3% of GDP by 2024. The government points out that interest expenditure, estimated at around €650 million in 2024, is falling by almost half as much as it was in 2015. Thus, in 2024 we will halve the interest costs according to 2015. The fiscal world has received a correct, appropriate response from the government. By increasing the expenditure ceiling, we are allowing the launch and continuation of the required number of investments. In nine months, €629 million has already been paid for investments, 27% more than in the same period in 2019, i.e. before the crisis. Restoring the economy is a priority. Restoring the economy is our priority. We believe that investment is crucial for long-term growth and economic development, the creation of new jobs and for the quality of work and life of our citizens and citizens. In the budgets for 2022 and 2023, we are therefore planning over EUR 2.2 billion of investments. Expenditure for the control of the epidemic shall be recorded transparently in a separate programme in the national budget and shall be separated according to an individual measure, by economic purpose, by the applicant and by the source of funds. The Committee on Finance or the members of the Committee on Finance shall be informed of this. Maybe a few more numbers. Slovenia’s public debt amounted to 79.8% of GDP in 2020 – not close to 90, as some interpret – and will, as it is said, fall to 76% of GDP by the end of 2023. In 2020, government debt service expenditure amounted to 1.7% of GDP, more than 300 million less than in 2014, at 2.5% of GDP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Today, as part of the budget package, we are also considering a proposal to amend the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period from 2022 to 2024, which establishes a financial framework for the implementation of the new budgetary documents. First. This decree will change the highest level of expenditure of the state sector by raising its ceiling by €1 billion and €65 million in 2022 and €935 million in 2023. However, it should be pointed out that despite the nominal increase observed, the country’s target balance, expressed relative to the gross social product level, is even decreasing by 0.2 percentage points in 2022 and by 0.5 percentage points in 2023 in relation to previous planning. This gives us a relatively high and stable economic growth and a positive and realistic outlook for our further economic activity. This decree also amends the national budget target balance by raising it by €650 million in 2022, which means that it will end up to €13 billion 950 million and will increase the national budget target balance by €305 million in 2023 to €13 billion. Nor does this nominal increase in state expenditure represent a relative increase in the gross social product. Just the opposite. In spite of the higher nominal government spending levels, the share of GDP expenditure will fall by 0,3 percentage points in 2022 and by 1 percentage point in 2023 according to previous plans, due to good economic conditions and GDP growth. The proposed amendments also allow for higher expenditure of municipal budgets and pension funds over the next two years. In this regard, let me stress that because of greater economic activity, the pension contributions collected will also be higher. The adoption of this decree, according to our assessment, is a real framework for further sustainable growth and for dealing with the social and economic consequences of the pandemic. Members of the Modern Centre Party will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendment was adopted by the parent working body to the proposal for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia's budgets for the years 2022 and 2023 in the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Katji Lautar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budget of the State, which means that it regulates the specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of each year. The adoption of the proposed law, together with the budgets for 2022 and 2023, is essential as the budget does not contain provisions, i.e. articles regulating material content. The preparation of changes to the budget for 2022 and also for 2023 is still strongly marked by an epidemic. In recent months a large number of different measures have been taken, all with a view to helping the population and maintaining the economy in good condition. The measures that mitigated the consequences of the epidemic had, of course, significant effects on the country's budget on both the revenue and expenditure sides. The financing of measures related to the epidemic implemented by the general reservation in 2020 and 2021 also ensures transparency in the use of funds, as resources are spent exclusively on measures related to the epidemic or to limiting the impact of the epidemic. The system of financing the measures related to the epidemic has been set up in a way that allows for an accurate review of how much funding has already been paid out of the country's budget for each measure and, taking into account the precarious situation and regulation, the proposed law still follows all the provisions, and it is also important that the so-called exceptional circumstances still apply, meaning that Member States can take budgetary measures to properly manage such situations under the preventive and corrective procedures of the Stability and Growth Pact, and for a period of time we send in the background the so-called fulfilment of either one-twenty debt or 0.6 fiscal effort. Furthermore, the proposed law preserves the provisions contained in the recent amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of budgets for 2021 and 2022, which establishes an implementing method for a new mechanism for recovery and resilience. This mechanism provides financial support for reforms and investments, thereby mitigating the further economic and social effects of the Coronavirus pandemic, enhancing the sustainability and resilience of the economy and improving Slovenia's readiness to meet the challenges of the green and digital transition. The proposed law also contains the content and other elements laid down or envisaged by the Public Finance Act and some of the content decided by the sectoral laws. According to the above, the extent of the country's debt and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at national level is determined in a given year. The powers of the Government and ministries, in particular those responsible for finance, as well as management bodies and other direct users for the implementation of budgets in the years 2022 and 2023, are also being regulated. Under the law governing pension and disability insurance, the proposed law should also set the amount of the annual pension allowance. In view of the social status, an annual pension allowance of up to EUR 570 is also provided for this year, with a maximum of 450 in 2022. The proposed law also sets a higher average for municipalities. This increases by 16.8 euros in 2022 compared to 2021, 645 euros in 2022 and 647 euros in 2023. As a result, the volume of financial balancing funds and the volume of resources to balance the development of municipalities are also increasing. The extension of the measure referred to in Article 10 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, which provides for additional funding for the implementation of public services, the regulation of watercourses from the Water Fund. Allow me to explain further that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up an opinion on the proposed law. The main part of these comments is taken into account in the amendments tabled in the proposed law. The proposal for an amendment also applies, which proposes, on a proposal from the Council of State, that municipalities belong in 2022 and 2023 for 2 % more resources to balance the development of municipalities as set out in the ZFO. In particular, we believe that, given that in recent years, the proportion of funds from the State budget for co-financing the investments of municipalities has not been provided at the level set out by the ZFO, this increase is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 65th urgent meeting on 13 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and 2023 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In the introductory explanation, the Minister of Finance explained that the proposed law allows the implementation of the country's budgets for the next two years. He stressed, however, that the proposal for a law was in the light of exceptional circumstances, following a general derogation clause allowing Member States of the European Union to take budgetary measures to properly manage the situation under the preventive and corrective procedures of the Stability and Growth Pact. He explained that the proposed law preserves the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, which provide for an implementing mechanism for recovery and resilience. He pointed out that the draft law also sets out the extent of the country's indebtedness and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's indebtedness at national level in individual years, regulates the amount of the annual pensioner's allowance according to their social status and sets the amount of the average for municipalities. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups remove most of the comments from their written opinion. With regard to comments that were not taken into account, she commented on Article 52, which allows for the use of resources in the state budget accounts to finance the mitigation of the effects of the covida-19 epidemic. It also pointed out that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 83 amending Article 10(2) of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism in Endorsing the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic and by Content amounted to a derogation from Article 162 of the Water Act. The members and members of the Finance Committee did not discuss the provisions of the proposed bill. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC's parliamentary groups, namely the 12 amendments. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Article 52 of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB MPs, nor did it adopt the amendment of Article 83. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As it is said, the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition in relation to the legal nature of the state budget. The main objective of the proposed law is to legislate solutions that will enable the country's budgets to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner for the next two years. At the same time, appropriate legal bases will be provided for both the budgetary users of the State budget and all public cash financing to carry out their tasks on an ongoing basis. Thus, the draft law sets out the extent of the country's debt and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at the level of the State in a given year. The country will be able to charge a good €5 billion next year and a little less than €4.7 billion in 2023. However, the maximum possible level of guarantees that the State can issue to legal and natural persons is limited to €630 million each year. The financing of the development tasks of the municipalities, including those that prove to be investment expenditure and investment transfers of municipal budgets, must be part of the regulated funding system, including the part co-financed by the state budget. The fundamental objective to be achieved is to respect the principle of compliance of financial resources with competences. All available sources of local authorities should be in proportion to the powers and tasks laid down in the legislation. The essential added value of the proposed law is therefore to establish a higher average for the financing of municipal tasks. The financing of local affairs is inseparably linked to competences, to statutory tasks and powers or to the rights and obligations of the municipalities. In relation to representatives of representative organisations of local self-government, the current government coalition has changed the established authoritarian practice so far. The average is thus not determined administratively, but in cooperation with the agreement. The new average for 2022 will be higher by 16.80 euros compared to this year and will be 645 euros and 647 euros in 2023. As usual, the bill also sets the amount of the annual pension allowance. This will be paid in June 2022 at five different levels ranging from 140 to 450 euros. The ranges of pension classes, depending on which annual allowance is to be determined, are also newly established. In doing so, it is important that none of the pensioners will be in a worse position than last year when receiving the annual allowance. The new classes are determined in a way that adapts to the planned harmonisation of pensions, which will prevent beneficiaries from jumping to a higher class, which would mean a lower annual allowance. In the Desus Group, we advocate such a distribution of payments because the original purpose of this form of transfer has changed from a recreation allowance to a total social adjustment whereby pensioners are forcibly compensated for too low pensions. There are more pensioners with the lowest pensions and fewer pensioners with higher pensions, because we cannot define an annual allowance as a right on the basis of the contributions paid. The proposed law preserves the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 relating to the financing of measures taken to prevent and mitigate communicable diseases. Members of the Desus Group will support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the government, all present at the Hall, a nice greeting! We have before us a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. As I said at the previous meeting of the National Assembly on the draft law on the implementation of budgets, we want the country to operate in the Slovenian National Party. The country must operate and its activities must be carried out smoothly. This is what we want exclusively for the benefit of our country and its citizens and citizens. Since the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is an essential condition for the implementation and implementation of the budget, this is all the more important. This law will also determine the extent of the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also extremely important for our country. By means of the proposed law, we will thus determine the necessary resources necessary for the functioning of our country. The specificities of enforcement, the use of cohesion policy funds and the recovery and resilience mechanism are identified. The country's assigned revenue and revenue, the extent of the country's indebtedness and the public sector's guarantee and public sector at national level are also defined. In the Slovenian National Party, it is also very important for us to regulate in this law the amount of the average in accordance with the law governing the financing of municipalities. Averages are very important for the development of local self-government in our country. If the averages of municipalities are too small, municipalities are forced to use other sources of funding that they should primarily spend on investments. This law will also provide an adequate legal basis for budgetary users of the state budget to carry out their tasks. In the Slovenian National Party, we will definitely support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and 2023. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budgets of the State and the specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of each year. The annual law also includes solutions that are estimated to be relevant to the development of a specific area of budgetary management. For the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the most important thing is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this coalition have a positive attitude towards the local community. We are convinced that the local community is a driver who can raise the standard of living of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore support the increase in averages for municipalities, rising by 16.8 euros in 2022 to 645 euros, and further increasing by 2 euros in 2023 to 647 euros. An important step forward, and we are convinced, is a completely different attitude towards the local community than the previous governments had. However, the amount of the annual allowance of pension recipients in 2022 is indicated in the ZIPRS itself. Beneficiaries who receive pensions of up to €570 will receive an annual allowance of €450, pensioners who receive pensions of between €570 and €680 will receive an annual allowance of €310. Pensions between €680 and €80 will receive an amount of €250, €200 of an annual supplement will be granted to pensioners who have a pension of between €805 and €970, while pensions of €970 will receive an annual allowance of €140. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and 2023.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budget of the State, which means that it regulates specificities relating to the implementation of the budget in the coming two years. In addition to solutions such as the possibility of a two-year state debt of poor 10 billion, the paragraph 52, to which we have tabled an amendment at the LMŠ Committee on Finance, will be addressed. With the amendment, we have proposed deleting an article that allows the funds in the budget accounts of the country reflected in the budget to be used to finance the mitigation of the effects of the covida-19 epidemic. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that what resources would be used and for what purpose should be explained in relation to the budget, i.e. the legal act adopted by the National Assembly. The budget is the financial plan of the country in which fiscal policy objectives, development objectives, priority areas and political and strategic priorities of the government are set out, and thus has particular importance for democratically carrying out public affairs at the highest level. It establishes a mandatory legal basis for substantive operations under the budgetary rights of the consumption of a number of budgetary users. The budget not only establishes a ceiling on the expenditure of a particular budgetary user for a specific purpose but also provides a legal basis for the formation of expenditure. However, this Article provides that the financial ministry of the right of expenditure shall designate them only and redistribute them independently to item covid-19 under sub-programme 234001 of the COVID-19 Fund for the Epidemic. The proposed arrangements suggest a potential violation of the principle of the division of power and an interference with the competence of the National Assembly to adopt the State budget. Moreover, in practice, it has been shown that the Ministry of Finance, when it is allowed to redistribute its spending rights independently to covid-19, as in the case of the proposal to amend the decree for 2020-2022, does not in fact explain where all the funds will be allocated. In the National Assembly, we can only guess where 370 million will be allocated within the 670-million-dollar increase in expenditure. At the same time, we also wanted to arrange the financing of the STA in 2022 to ZIPRS with the amendment. Otherwise, the V.D. Directors of the STA and Director of Ukom recently signed a contract for the performance of the public service of the STA this year, but the fact remains that the STA performed its public service this year without public payment. The bankruptcy has thus far also been avoided through the sale of claims and through the funds of the Donation Campaign of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia for Survival. Nevertheless, she was in severe financial distress, and she had been abandoned by a number of employees in the last months due to uncertain circumstances. The STA must not depend on the mercy of the ruling click, so we wanted to ensure with the amendment that the STA Government will settle all obligations in 2022 regardless of whether it concluded a contract with the founder. However, we still need to mention the 30th article, which will allow arms purchases to bear the burden of budgets that have not been adopted at all. We do not agree with this in LMŠ at all. Given that we have failed with the amendments and will remain in ZIPRS provisions that we do not agree with and its adoption would allow the implementation of the budgets which we oppose, we will vote in the LMC against the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposed law, which monitors the annual draft budget, rounds the budget documents and is an integral part of them. It sets out the extent of the country's and public sector's debt and permitted guarantees. The use and recovery of European Union funds, however, is subject to various prepayments and other specificities relating to the operation and sale of assets. As always, it also determines the size of the average of municipalities, annual allowances for pensioners, public sector employment, and a new way of financing the measures and projects included in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. It also establishes specific powers for the government and ministers and other direct users to implement the country's budget. This bill retains the power of the Government to redistribute the funds on its own not only within the budget but within the limits of the budgetary decree and even through individual budgetary years. Above all, such powers are those of the most concern to us in the Group of Social Democrats. It is clear from the consideration of budgets that the Government does not have legal control over the cash flows of our common money. Respectful, the important difference is whether the Government receives an authorisation for its actions before it actually implements them, or, after they have already been carried out, it repeatedly apologises for its derogations from its powers with urgent measures to save lives and to protect health. Even if it can subsequently fill us with documents that are supposed to prove the legality and efficiency of spending, it is not as if it had previously done what is right, planned better and involved us in the search for solutions before problems arise and become uncontrollable, for example, proposed a rebalancing for this year if billions and half of unforeseen costs have already escaped. Instead, he asks for permission to report on its use only one year after a new government has taken its place. With everything we know about the budget proposals, and with several derogations from the budgetary constraints mentioned today, we do not believe that such a government can still be entrusted with such extensive powers, so that the majority will have to take responsibility for them, which also intends to vote in favour of the unrealistic and dangerous budgetary plans of this government and its coalitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. This law, respected colleagues and colleagues, lays down for the budgets for 2022 and 2023 the composition, the specificity of their implementation, the use of cohesion policy funds and the means of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the dedicated revenue and revenue of the State, the extent of the country's debt and guarantees and the whole public sector, the level of the average, i.e. the funding of the municipalities, and the taking of commitments and other issues related to the implementation of budgets. The law therefore provides for a way in which the State will use public funds. First of all. The plans for spending public money in the case of the government of Janez Janša are mainly about a blank menu for non-transparent spending, in particular in the chapters of the Fund for Recovery and Resistance and on covid items. In ZIPRS, the operation of the Recovery and Resistance Fund is being operationalised, which is responsible for drawing large amounts of European funds from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. Only in 2022 and 2023 will it receive 784 million euros and half of grants. Otherwise, the current Government Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees the use of €1.8 billion in grants and €666 million in loans between 2021 and 2026. In order to draw on these funds, the Government has set up a Fund for Recovery and Resistance, which is a budget fund, which means that its spending will not be included in the statement of revenue and expenditure in the budget. This means that it will not be clear to the National Assembly when, it will not be clear how, and it will not be clear what this money was spent on. The government has re-assigned a blank menu for a conspiracy and non-transparent spending of public money, which is becoming a constant. After the outbreak of the epidemic, billions of euros are provided each year on the cod item; for 2022, the undeclared reserve item increased to 944 million. Since virtually all intervention measures are planned on a single sub-programme, it is not possible to determine from the budget documents which measure these funds will be used for. Moreover, the ZIPRS also provides that the scope of the general budgetary reservation appropriations is unlimited. This also gives the government a huge margin of manoeuvre to redistribute budgetary resources past Parliament and far from the public eye. It is a very serious problem that the use of public money is neither democratically defined nor publicly and transparently displayed, and it is a dangerous continuation of the privatisation process of the state budget. The government treats public funds as private property. In this context, the convenient affair with the non-name of European prosecutors is given a meaningful dimension. Slovenia remains the only member who has not yet appointed European Delegated Prosecutors, i.e. its representatives to the Supervisory Authority for the use of funds, which further undermines the lack of confidence in the control of the use of European funds in Slovenia. This is not the only problem with government watching over the use of public funds. In ZIPRS, she has granted herself the right to practically employ her staff in public administration without any restrictions. At first, the law provides, at general level, that the budgetary users’ budget plan for 2022 and 2023 shall not exceed the authorised number of employees in the current staffing plan for 2021 and shall provide for an exception allowing the Government to increase the number of employees in the state administration without restrictions in the indications for "reasoned reasons". The financing of municipalities is also problematic. The government boasts all the time that it provides new funds for municipalities by raising averages. But while the government gives one hand to the congregations, it takes it with the other hand. And this government will take much more from the congregations than it will give them. With the adoption of a tax reform that will reduce public finances by 250 million euros by 2025, at the expense of huge tax breaks for the rich and capital. Contrary to the one-cost intervention measures, the tax reform has led to a permanent loss of budgetary revenue. Every year, €800 million will be less for social transfers, less for pensions, less for public infrastructure. The law on the implementation of budgets for the years 2022 and 2023 serves the government, not the people, so we will not support it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. Why? Because this law implements one part of the coalition contract, namely decentralisation, consistent regional development, the annual allowance to pensioners paid in accordance with the system law, and the amount is fixed in this law and the provision of additional resources from public and other sources for long-term financial sustainability and stable financing of the healthcare system and long-term care. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the country's budgets for 2022 and 2023 to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner. The aim of the law is also to provide adequate legal basis for budgetary users of the state budget to carry out their tasks on an ongoing basis. The proposed law also provides appropriate legal bases to enable the efficient use of European funds for projects included in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. The proposed law preserves the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 relating to the financing of measures taken to prevent and mitigate covid-19 communicable diseases. This law is good news for pensioners. We are talking about increasing annual allowances for pensioners, which is six classes. For pensioners who receive up to €570 of pension, the annual allowance for 2022 will be €450 for those who have a pension of over €970 and will amount to €140. It also provides for an annual allowance for beneficiaries of a partial disability pension, disability benefits, beneficiaries of compensation for periods of professional rehabilitation and so on. At the same time, the upper levels of the classes are elevated according to existing solutions. This law is also good information for local communities, but before we go to numbers, I am pleased, on behalf of New Slovenia, that all three representative organisations of municipalities, namely the Community of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, signed an agreement with the Government on the average for 2022 and 2023, setting the average for 2022 at EUR 645, which is 16.8 euros more than this year, and for 2023 at EUR 647. Therefore, as the above-mentioned associations of municipalities write in their letter, they welcome these solutions in the law on the implementation of budgets. In Novi Slovenija, it seems extremely important that this figure, the amount of the average, is determined on the basis of the agreement. In the past, there have been many such agreements and governments have voluntarily set a rule of over-average. In New Slovenia, we support the development of local self-government and efforts for coherent regional development of all regions of Slovenia. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate, manage and exercise in their own right all public matters from the life and work of the inhabitants of their territory and not to interfere with the rights and obligations of other local communities. As it is said, Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Your Honor! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023 also appoints a technical law as it regulates the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the State budget. By adopting this law, we will allow the country's budgets to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner for the next two years. Our economy has been successfully picked up after the fall hit by the covida-19 pandemic. In order to continue to create a good economic climate, we also need an appropriate legal framework to implement the planned budgetary changes over the next two years. The proposed law also provides for the regulation of employment policy, the establishment of an annual pension allowance, arrangements for the financing of local self-government and the establishment of an appropriate legal basis for the effective use of European funds, which are intended for projects included in our Recovery and Resistance Plan. This mechanism provides financial support for reform and investment, which will also help to mitigate the negative economic and social consequences of the coronary pandemic in the future. We support the proposed legal solutions in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. We are pleased that we have received development-oriented budget documents at the table, which rightly and balancedly address all the key challenges of our society. The law before us will allow for the implementation or implementation in the budget of the recorded financial starting points, so Members of the SMC will support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	Your Honor! The Budget Implementation Act is a technical law that monitors the budget. Its implementation is essential so that the budget can be implemented on a case-by-case basis. It shall, inter alia, record the extent of the debt and the permitted guarantees in each year. In 2022, the country will be able to charge a little more than €5 billion, and in 2023 it will be able to pay slightly less than €4.7 billion. For the next two years, the liquidity commitment shall be granted up to 15% of the last budget adopted. So far, this debt has only been allowed up to 10% of the last budget adopted, but the government obviously raises its limits in all segments of the debt headlessly. The maximum possible level of guarantees that the State can issue to legal and natural persons is limited to EUR 630 million per year. This year, the law also provides an annual allowance for pensioners, which is paid at five different amounts between € 140 and €450. This means that pensioners with the highest pensions receive an annual allowance of 140 euros and those with the lowest pensions receive an annual allowance of 450 euros. Pensioners will receive an annual allowance at the same time as pensions in June 2022. This time, the budget and the related law on its enforcement make a great deal of money available to the congregations. Thus, the averages of 628.20 euros per capita this year rise to 645 euros in 2022 and 647 euros in 2023. On the basis of the complement adopted by the Coalition Members, the level of funding for the financial settlement of municipalities and the volume of resources to balance the development of municipalities is increasing, as there has been a lack of adequate funding for the municipalities in recent years to co-finance their investments. The rule of law provides specific broad powers to manage the country's budget. In particular, powers have proved problematic to enable the Government to allocate resources independently to finance the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic. The opposition to such an arrangement has proved justified because the Government of Justice has moved the covid to its own position and then offered us a decree that raises expenditure by 670 million without explaining to anyone what it will spend it on. The proposed regime violates the principle of the division of power and inadmissibly interferes with the competence of the National Assembly to adopt the State budget. Equally problematic is the power under which the Government will redistribute EU funds to different items before it receives the money. This is solely on the basis of its expectation that some item measure will be financed by European funds. Not only does it provide for a completely arbitrary decision by the Government, but it also rightly asks the Government what plan b is if its funding expectations do not result from European funds. ZIPRS also intervenes in other laws, such as the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism, in such a way as to allow the Water Fund to be used to finance public water services over the next two years. This rule should not, as a rule, be judged by the law that we are considering today, which is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. But what constitutes a marriage is a matter of constant judgment. The provisions of this law clearly show us that the executive branch of the authority pushes legislatively out of their way. If, as executive branches of the government, violations of the constitutional role of the National Assembly are allowed and, on the other hand, Members are restricted in the legislative procedure, we lay down the principle of division of power over the head. We have therefore introduced two supplements into the SAB, which also interfere with the intervention laws to contain the epidemic and lay the legal basis for the use of resources already allocated by the State to citizens. It is the use of tourist vouchers and vouchers for 2021. Statistics show that many socially vulnerable citizens of hotel and dinner vouchers will not spend, and as a result of the rise in energy prices, these funds are needed to pay for electricity and heating. Therefore, the use of the vouchers is being extended and their validity extended until the end of the following year. If the socially weak and the elderly live in unheated and unhealthy living quarters in the winter due to poverty, all the measures taken to contain the epidemic and other diseases will remain in vain. People don't know when and if they'll even get the promised energy vouchers that the government is planning, even though it's winter at the door. That is why people need to be allowed to spend the existing vouchers on what they need most at the moment. Let's remind ourselves that the government shut down the price regulation for petroleum derivatives a while ago, which is why they jumped you into the sky. But the government did not understand or understand such an increase in prices of all energy sources. If the government does not act immediately, the damage to people and the economy will be higher every day. In the SAB, we believe that it is crucial at this point to provide affordable energy to consumers and not force them to choose whether to pay an energy bill or a family dinner. For this reason, we have submitted a supplement which legally obliges the Government, for 2022, sets the prices of energy consumers [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Comrade Bandelli, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	If the proposed SAB solutions are adopted, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that the three amendments of the SAB Group of Members and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levice, SAB and unrelated Members to the new Articles are not tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so we will not discuss or decide on them. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural. I'll read it all the way. I note that amendments to the amended law are not tabled. Now I'm going to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly! So far, it has been a practice that amendments could also be made to the law on the implementation of the budget, and we have tabled two important amendments in the area of regulating electricity, natural gas and other prices, i.e. the use of unused fees to pay expensive energy. We would ask if these two amendments could be explained in accordance with current practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your proposal. However, I would remind you that these amendments, which you have tabled again, were also rejected by the Committee on Finance when the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was considered. There were no protests or complaints. I also believe that it is very inconsistent that what the chairman of the Committee on Finance would have refused is now considered to be properly invested, even though it is not business. In addition, I say that amendments to transitional provisions cannot be made if they are not in the basic law, as stated in the preceding provisions, no material basis to which the transitional provision relates. They cannot be decided because they do not apply to any provision in ZIPRS. None. For this reason, we will neither discuss nor decide on these amendments. You have a procedural proposal again, mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Dear Vice President! I have a retrial motion. The practice so far has been that amendments could be made to the law on the implementation of the budget. We have two important amendments – to regulate high energy prices and other important ones, that these incentives can be paid by unexploited vouchers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	Whatever you have tabled, it would make sense to put in first and to lay down a certain Article in the provisions before the preceding provisions. You have not done so and therefore such new articles cannot be tabled under transitional and final provisions. It's not possible, and I don't think it makes sense for us to get involved in these things, because that's actually not going to work. That is why I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE ELIMINATION OF FAILURE OF LEGAL PERSONS FROM THE COURT OF REGISTER IN THE PERIOD OF 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011 IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE RED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State Mitja Gorenščku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of government services and others present! At its 41st meeting, the Council adopted the text of the draft law on the elimination of wrongs for the removal of legal persons from the Register of Justice in the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011. _Other Organiser [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	May I have your attention and peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	The proposal addresses the consequences of the removal of companies without liquidation on the basis of the provisions of the Financial Operations Act and the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to allow equitable satisfaction to those shareholders who, from their personal property, paid the debts of deleted capital companies by at least partially repaying them the damage caused. In this regard, I would like to point out that the fundamental feature of capital companies is precisely that the liability of their shareholders and shareholders is limited to their contribution to society, unless conditions are laid down for the transparency of the legal personality. The issue of the consequences of the Company Finance Act has already been addressed three times by the National Assembly in 2007, 2011 and 2018. Each time he found that the unlimited transfer of obligations had disproportionately affected the position of shareholders of capital companies. The Law on the Financial Operation of Companies was adopted in order to remedy the dismissal of courts which did not initiate insolvency and winding-up proceedings under official duty between 1995 and 1999, although this should be in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Law on Economic Companies and Insolvency Law at that time. At that time, there were no exceptional circumstances which, irrespective of the conditions for transparency of the legal personality, would justify an increase in the liability of shareholders of capital companies, as the European Court of Human Rights also found. The unlimited transfer of liabilities to shareholders of capital companies was against the foundations of corporate law and they do not know such a transfer of liabilities in other countries. He had a criminal effect on his associates, he was harmful to the economy and he was unjust. He was disproportionately encroaching on the private property of his associates. In 2011, the disputed transfer of obligations was lifted, but the consequences suffered by the members of the deleted companies were not remedied, which is a solution to the law in question. Under this law only property damage can be recovered, only in part. Rules shall be laid down on the procedure, the height and the manner in which the damage is reimbursed. The issue of legal succession is settled and creditors are guaranteed to maintain the current situation as the state will assume those obligations that have not yet expired or ceased in any other way. This is not a matter of renewal or interference in debt-supply relations that have already been completed. The parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats and the parties of the modern centre have tabled amendments to address the concerns expressed in their opinions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the proposed solutions. The amendments tabled follow the same objective as the initial proposal of the law and allow for the remediation of the damage caused by the legal presumption that the shareholders have assumed the obligations of deleted capital companies. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a third consideration of the draft law be held at this meeting. However, Members and Members, I ask you to support a legal solution that will at least partially eliminate the injustice caused by the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. The Committee on the Economy is at its 17th session. 11. 2021 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law on the elimination of wrongs for the removal of legal persons from the register for the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the letters of interest from the public. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS, NSI and the Modern Centre parties. A proposal by the amendment committee to the title of the draft law adopted by the Committee and as set out in the report of the Committee was also submitted to members and members. Following an introductory explanation by the representative of the State Council, Mitje Gorenščka, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out a large number of legal shortcomings in the legal text and the issue of non-compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. With regard to the amendments tabled, she stressed that most of the comments made by the service were taken into account. In the light of the amendments tabled, the service to the draft law has no further comments. With regard to amendments to the amendments and to the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, she explained that further nomotechnical irregularities were being addressed and the title of the bill was being corrected accordingly. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the Government's written opinion and the reasons why the Government was detained until the proposal for a law. In doing so, he highlighted some of its shortcomings regarding the right to reparation and compensation, the impact on the economic and fiscal policy of the Republic of Slovenia, the limitation of the range of beneficiaries of damages, the possibility of returning property in nature, the proposed taxation of payments, the allocation of new decision-making rights and obligations and the financial consequences. The meeting was also attended by the Director of the Private Institute for the Protection of Entrepreneurship, Janez Mohorič, who, together with the Management Board of the said Institute, represented deleted entrepreneurs and Prof. Šime Ivanjko. They explained that they had participated in the drafting of the bill, presented the resulting solutions and called on Members to support it. In the debate, some Members opposed the bill. In the current situation of high public financial deficits and the general macroeconomic situation, it was considered inappropriate to invest in the legal text with unforeseen financial consequences. The view was also expressed that the removal of the company was justified in most cases. It was pointed out that the Constitutional Court in 2002 found that the measure eliminates an inactive company which does not have assets in conformity with the Constitution. At the same time, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the contested law relating to so-called passive shareholders. On the contrary, some discussers supported the amendments tabled and expressed support for the proposed law. In doing so, they drew attention to past wrongs and injustices, the associated hardships of associates and their families, and the need to correct these injustices. In doing so, they stressed that the amendments tabled followed the aim of redressing the injustices, significantly improving the legal text and reducing the amount of resources required to recover the damage, taking into account the public financial constraints. In the debate, the President of the National Council explained the reasons why the estimated amount of resources needed to remedy the injustices had been reduced to an estimated EUR 45 million. In conclusion, he undertook to obtain at least partial financial and moral satisfaction after many years. Following the debate, the Committee on the Economy adopted amendments to the draft law by the SDS, NSI and SMC. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee on the Economy's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Simon Zajc, will present the explanation of the Government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you. Dear Members, good evening! The proposal for a law submitted by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and subsequently amended by the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC sentinel groups provides for the right to compensation for the damage caused by the transfer of liabilities of capital companies which have been deleted from the Court Registry under the Financial Action Act of companies since 23. Seven. 1999 to 15. 1. 2008, beneficiaries and beneficiaries, dosage criteria and the level of monetary compensation, payment modalities and deadlines, and procedures and decision-making bodies. As a reason for the adoption of the law, the applicant states that the ZFPPod has provided for the administrative deletion of all non-functional and uncapitalised legal persons and a constitutionally disputed ex-lege transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to shareholders and shareholders past the legally regulated procedure to overlook legal personality after the then applicable Companies Act, although the applicant considers that there were no exceptional, justified circumstances to justify it. It is expected to cover between 17,000 and 25,000 private companies, and it is realistic to expect the applicant to notify around 20,000 injured persons after the law has been enforced. An assessment of the financial implications of the law, which was based on an initial proposal of between 300 million and 400 million, was also made after the applicant's ex post assessment of the damages to the circus of 17 million euros and the third calculation indicates claims of around 45.5 million euros for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the draft law and has found that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a position on the content governed by the law several times. As explained in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is therefore reasonable to conclude that, by adopting the proposal, they could intervene in certain constitutionally protected rights or in similar factual situations. As a result of the provision of legal and constitutionally consistent treatment of the topic in question in 2018, the Act on the Cessation of Procedures against Associates of Deleted Companies was adopted, which, pending the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Lekić case against Slovenia, terminated all proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies. In 2018, the ECHR ruled that the current regulation in the Republic of Slovenia did not violate human rights during the period considered, namely the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, which allowed the courts in the Republic of Slovenia to continue its proceedings against the shareholders of the deleted companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, therefore, in its previous opinion to the proposal for a law, highlighted some of its shortcomings, including with regard to the right to pay or pay damages, the impact on the economic and fiscal policy of the Republic of Slovenia, the restriction of the circle of beneficiaries, the return of property in nature, the proposed taxation of payments, the allocation of new labour rights or decision-making rights and obligations and the introduction of financial consequences. Some of the shortcomings of the amendments tabled are eliminated. Nevertheless, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into account the decisions already issued by the Constitutional Court in relation to the content of the law which it refers to, to the proposal for a law on the elimination of injustices for the removal of legal persons from the Register of Justice for the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011 continued to be detained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague, good evening! As you know, the drafter of the Law of the State Council, which addresses with a proposal the consequences of transferring the liabilities of capital companies which have been erased from the register under the Financial Business Act and the Financial Business Act, insolvency and compulsory winding-up procedures, has been suffered by the shareholders and shareholders of deleted companies. The basic purpose of the bill is to allow at least certain satisfaction to persons who, by their personal property, paid debts to deleted capital companies and at least partially reimbursed them for the property damage. The State has deleted more than 10 thousand companies from the Registry of Justice, which were considered to be not operational under the applicable criteria. The companies were deleted by official duty, with shareholders and shareholders taking unlimited solidarity responsibility for their duties. At the same time, the company’s law of obligation was passed on to their associates, who had to pay off their debts with personal property. The saga of the latter has been dragging for almost two decades. On the content, several legislative proposals have already been proposed and several court decisions have been issued. Those of you who have been in the National Assembly for a long time, you may recall that, in the previous mandate of April 2018, the Law on the Cessation of Procedures against Associates of Deleted Companies, with only four articles, was passed on the proposal of Mr Janko Vebra. Article 2 of the Act provided that, if the European Court of Justice finds in the judgment of a particular person that the Republic of Slovenia has infringed human rights by adopting a legal provision on the transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to the founder, the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a law regulating the legal consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and the continuation of the proceedings terminated. However, if the European Court of Justice finds that the Republic of Slovenia has not infringed human rights by adopting a legal regime for the transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to the founder or to the shareholders on the basis of the laws referred to in the first paragraph of the preceding Article, the proceedings shall continue. In December 2018, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that there had been no infringement of the rights of the complainant under the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore worth noting that the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and of the European Court do not imply that the liability of active shareholders for the debts of deleted companies would be unconstitutional or incompatible with human rights or fundamental freedoms. The European Court of Justice has also held that the deletion in specific circumstances did not constitute an individual and excessive burden on the complainant, thus avoiding the wide scope of the State's discretion in this area in order to restore the stability of the market and the protection of creditors for which the legislator had a public interest. In addition, the draft law, although amended by amendments, has an unforeseeable or appreciable financial impact on the state budget at a time of still high public financial deficit and the resulting increase in public debt, is inappropriate during the outbreak of infectious covid-19 disease. Furthermore, the draft budget for 2023 does not even provide for the financing of costs for the elimination of the injustices or damages arising from the law. This aspect must also be taken into account in the assessment of the support of the law. On the other hand, some point to the injustices that the law has caused to individuals who have been wiped out as collateral damage, and to their associated difficulties, especially the families of these associates, and to the necessary remedies for these injustices. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the amended proposal for a law is not the same as the proposed one. The mother's working body has adopted amendments to the 21 articles of the 25 articles and the title of the law has changed. One amendment to Article 5 will be voted on in plenary session. In view of the initial proposal, the period is reduced by three years and the possibility of seeking compensation is limited – and thus the total amount – to be paid from the State budget. While in the original proposal the amount of resources that could be earmarked by the State for compensation was estimated at around EUR 300 to EUR 400 million, the change is estimated at around EUR 12 to 45 million. The proposal, after the amendments adopted, provides that the beneficiaries can begin the procedure for the application by submitting a settlement proposal with the State's Attorney. Following a further proposal, the beneficiaries will have to prove that they have carried out the available activities and that they have not been able to prevent the removal of the company and the transfer of obligations. In view of all the aspects presented, we will vote in different ways by unrelated Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	All in attendance, all in attendance! With the amendments, this bill was corrected in almost all articles, so that I could almost talk about the coalition law and not the law of the State Council. This gives me the feeling that even on the right, not only on the left hand side, we have a bad conscience about this subject. In 1999, the Financial Action Act was adopted to eliminate general financial non-discipline. It was a marriage they didn't know anywhere in the world. This law was contrary to the principles of corporate law. Between 1999 and 2011, there was, therefore, a wide-ranging systemic corruption of politics and the economy in Slovenia, so that it could almost be called Mafia action. There has been something happening in our beautiful country that has not happened practically anywhere else in Europe and beyond. In the Slovenian National Party, we have been alerting all the thievery and injustices against our people for years, which, of course, has always come across empty ears. It also came across empty ears because we have never been part of this nonsense and destruction of our country in the Slovenian National Party. Until systemic corruption, we have always been extremely critical of the welfare of the nation, which was not after all for those who were responsible for such immoral acts. That is why we have always been censored by ruling suitors and political influences, so this story has been silenced and has not come into almost any media. Of course, this story was virtually media silenced, since none of those in the background with the greatest power and influence wanted the truth to come on the day. When certain companies went into the so-called liquidation or liquidation at that time, debts were automatically erased to all those who owed money to these companies. However, the debts have been incurred by the owners of these companies, even though the owners of capital companies should not be personally liable under economic law. These debts have been transferred to nothing by the wrong owners of the companies and even to their family members. This was literally a network with a planned reason for interlacing across all segments. There were even suicides, as people were unjustly practically at all. In the Slovenian National Party, we will continue to draw attention to systemic corruption at the highest level, even if they try to silence us. We will fight for the Slovenian people and for justice, and we will not be afraid of the most influential political and economic motivators. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we could just buy the Goli Island, believe me, it would be full in these years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Law on the Financial Operation of Companies provided for the administrative deletion of all inactive or uncapitalised legal persons and a constitutionally disputed ex-legislative transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to shareholders and shareholders beyond the legally regulated procedure of disregarding the legal personality under the Act on Economic Companies. There were no legitimate exceptions to such a relative grave intervention in corporate law, exceptional circumstances that would justify it at that time. At that time, the affected members could not expect such an extraordinary and disproportionate measure by the legislator, so it is also possible to mark this law as a surprise law, as it unexpectedly even retroactively interferes with the relations created a few years before this law. According to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services, there were between 17 and 25 thousand private companies on the basis of the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises, and their shareholders suffered substantial damage. We believe that this damage in the Slovenian Democratic Party must be repaid with just and appropriate compensation. The latter should take into account the shared responsibility of the shareholders and the State and it is therefore proposed to limit the compensation, which is consistent with constitutional regulation and with the limited financial capacity of the State. The proposal for a law on the correction of wrongs stems from the very principle of the State's responsibility to eliminate the injustices it has caused by its conduct. The Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, adopted for the purpose of recovery and abandonment of the courts, established the so-called ex-lege transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to shareholders and shareholders. Due to shared liability between the parties and the State, a limitation of compensation is envisaged. The State's responsibility stems from the fact that a financial transaction law was passed years ago without the existence of exceptional circumstances, as also pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights, and that a procedure for the cessation of legal persons without liquidation and bankruptcy has been laid down in the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, which are fundamental standards of corporate law regarding the cessation of legal persons. The draft law therefore stems from the finding that there is State responsibility and recognises compensation for both the shareholders of deleted companies and creditors in the work in which they have not yet been paid. In cases where the conditions for transparency of a legal person are laid down, creditors may enforce the payment of their claims from the shareholders in accordance with the rules governing the review of the legal personality. It is envisaged that the compensation procedure shall be conducted by the legal authorities following the example of the compensation procedures for persons who have been deleted from the permanent register. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we will vote in favour of this law, together we have also tried to correct it in coalition, as the interlocutors have said before me, with some 21 amendments, given that individuals, a whole range of families, have experienced agony, was a whole series of suicides, it was a series of family tragedies, even a number of people who had to literally start again. Just because in this coalition, this government is now reforming a whole range of some, I could say, large anomalies, from disabled to blind youth, children with disabilities to rural pensions, and so on, we will also be happy to support this proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! The reasons for the adoption of this proposal go back more than 20 years. In 1999, the Financial Business Act was passed, which, referring to the large number of non-active companies in the system, wiped out more than 10 000 companies from the Court Registry, while maintaining the liability of shareholders for the obligations of those companies. Shortly after the entry into force of the law, it became clear that the solution was controversial, as it also burdened people, even though the formal partners could not take responsibility for the business or assume its obligations. As a result, attempts were soon made to retroactively amend the law, which always ended before the Constitutional Court, which annulled all attempts, despite the fact that it had already issued a decision 19 years ago in which it ruled that the execution had been an excessive measure for certain shareholders. At that time, the legislator was ordered to correct the wrongs that had arisen by distinguishing between active and inactive partners, between those who could or should have been active in maintaining their societies and those whose role did not allow them to do so. The appearance of the Solomonic judgment was actually Pilate’s. Corporate law does not differ anywhere in the world from those whose rights and duties are generally the same. Everything the legislator has tried to do since then has been stuck in the judgments of the Constitutional Court. The disproportionate consequences caused by the adoption of such a drastic measure, which many have not been able to prevent, have not yet been corrected. Since the Financial Operations Act 1999 created a legal basis for creditors who initiated enforcement procedures, it was not possible to find a solution for debtors who did not at the same time intervene in the ownership rights and eligibility of creditors. All this time, however, enforcement proceedings were under way against associates who also led to tragic conclusions — personal bankruptcys, divorces, and suicides. All of this happened in the first decade of the first social arrangement. The circumstances in which some felt blue mass and without individual treatment to wipe out some tens of thousands of businesses have not only created frauds that did not pay bills and submit annual reports, as some would like to show. In the first years of capitalism, as well as today, many have become entrepreneurs under duress. How many transport operators or accounting services have been established in this way? Not everyone was allowed to survive. The affected members are an extremely diverse group. In order to create circumstances in which some inactive companies had a systemic problem, however, the State had a large share of the responsibility to delete them. Five years before the adoption of the original disputed law, the current Law on Economic Companies was in force. For five years, the courts had the possibility and duty to initiate all procedures for the disposal of any company that did not submit reports, pay invoices or have assets. Since they have not exercised their powers, the consequences of the deletion have also been disproportionately affected by nothing at all. The only way to finally heal this old wound is to recognise the role of the State in the application of excessive measures in order to allow for the settlement of the damage caused to those who could not know or affect the operation of deleted companies, but still had to bear responsibility for their property, some even with the loss of their own home, family and health. The coalition, which the proponents have apparently convinced with their arguments, has, in spite of the amendments to the law, removed a number of concerns from the Law-Legal Service all the time. Its essence remains the same – to allow individual treatment and settlement to the shareholders who can prove that they were not in a position to assume the responsibilities imposed on them by the law, for a rapid adoption almost 23 years ago. The range of beneficiaries is adequately limited that all those who wished to make a conscious advantage or were in a management position would not be able to claim compensation. Finally, the situation of creditors is also properly regulated so that the adoption of the law does not create new injustices in the form of damage to creditors. All 23 years ago, the Social Democrats stood on the side of those who were disproportionately affected by the adoption of the law at that time, forced entrepreneurs and their families, defrauded, seduced and under-informed and trained to overcome the wetlands of early Slovenian capitalism. It is time for the state to take responsibility for this phase, which has helped to create circumstances in which the prohibited cross-examination of the legal personality has become a tool for regulating the situation and disposing of the courts. Because at least part of the law relieves the injustices caused by the entry into the capitalist system, which, due to the ignorance and exploitation of the unknown, has overtaken and destroyed the completely innocent, the Social Democrats support the adoption of this law, and we hope that its adoption will close this dark story once and for all from our past.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Your Honor! Your Honor, thank you. The law regulates the payment of compensation to the owners and their creditors for the removal of legal persons from the Registry between 1999 and 2011. In the opinion of the Council of State, by implementing the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises to the Owners of Businesses, and to creditors who were unable to recover debts from owners, in the years 1999 to 2011, the injustice suffered by the State must be covered by the payment of the compensation. Following the amendments adopted by the government coalition, the State will pay compensation to the injured party only for debts paid and lost property. The amount of compensation for late marriage interest is also limited. Only the person who shows that she actively wanted to prevent the removal of the capital company from the register without liquidation will be entitled to compensation, but the deletion could not be prevented; the procedure is not conducted before the administrative unit under the rules of the administrative procedure, but through the State's defence. Notwithstanding the type of damage, the amount of compensation shall be limited to 60 % of the amount of damage found, except for compensation for beneficiaries who had to sell the houses or dwellings in which they lived in the enforcement procedure. In this case, the compensation shall be 100 %. According to the Government's initial assessment, the budget costs for compensation would be between €300m and €400m, with amendments adopted at the Committee's meeting proposed by the government coalition, and this amount has decreased to a total of €45m. It's hard to talk about guilt when it's erased. In fact, it was the removal of zombie companies that had blocked accounts, high debts or even no employees. These are companies that did not have assets and did not send annual reports to the competent authorities showing their financial situation. The Financial Business Act required the management of these companies to ensure liquidity and restore financial discipline. If this was not possible, they were also allowed to carry out bankruptcy proceedings or forcible settlement. Therefore, only owners that did not provide liquidity or conduct bankruptcy proceedings were deleted. As these owners failed to fulfil their statutory obligations, the transfer of obligations to the owners of the companies was also justified. The unfairness of the Company Finance Act can be discussed in cases where there was a transfer of obligations to shareholders who had no influence on the operation of deleted companies. However, this injustice has already been removed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides that only active shareholders are responsible for the obligations of deleted companies. We won't support the marriage in the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good evening! The bill addresses the problem in Slovenia since 1999 when, in the time of the Drnovška government, a Law on the Financial Business of Companies was passed due to excessive financial non-discipline and insolvency of enterprises, which allowed the removal of thousands of companies. The law provided for the removal of companies that did not operate or have no assets. In the event of an erasure, it provided for the personal and unlimited liability of the shareholders for the obligations of the deleted company on the basis of a proposal from the creditor which had the possibility to propose, within one year of the deletion, the recovery of the debt directly from the shareholders. Following a rapid procedure, the Court has begun to delete the so-called inactive companies, which included companies with blocked accounts. They were erased from the Registry of Justice and transferred their debts without fair procedures to the parties. The drafter recognises that the European Court of Human Rights has rejected the complainant's claim on this issue by reasoning that in this case it was not a violation of human rights. In Novi Slovenija, we were quite detained until the initial draft of the bill. However, we have tabled amendments on the home labour body, which have significantly improved the bill and have therefore received our support on the domestic labour body of the bill. The draft law provides for the right to compensation for damage caused by the transfer of the liabilities of capital companies to their shareholders and shareholders. These are deletions from the Court Registry under the Financial Business Act of the Company for the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 15. 1. 2008 Following the amendments adopted, the creditor shall remain eligible only if the claim has not yet become obsolete. The beneficiary will also have to demonstrate that it carried out activities to prevent the disappearance of the company and could not prevent it and that it could not affect the company’s operation. The procedure for determining the compensation shall be initiated at the request of the beneficiary in the State’s Attorney’s Office, as opposed to the original proposal in the administrative units, which shall be determined by the proposal within three months. Restrictions on recognised damage are laid down. A 100 % compensation shall be granted on the basis of this law only where the recovery of the obligation resulted in the sale of the apartment or the house where the debtor resided. In all other cases, 60% of the damage found shall be recognised. The fact is that the law of 1999 has caused many people injustice. In the night, despite the circumstances, he owed me a debt that the law had already given them before, ensuring that they could not land on their shoulders. It is also reasonable to think that at least some had influence and were responsible for the business and also the debts of their companies. Since the proposal of the law on the basis of the amendments adopted provides for the recognition of only 60% of the damage, excludes interest back and provides strict conditions for the debtor to be considered a beneficiary at all, thus reducing the public financial impact to a reasonable circus of EUR 45 million, we will support Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice greeting, a proposaler, a secretary of state, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law on the abolition of the rights of legal persons from the Registry for the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011. This deletion took place on the basis of the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, which provided for the administrative deletion of all non-functional and non-capitalised legal persons. Particularly controversial, including from a constitutional point of view, was the transfer of the obligations of these deleted companies directly to their owners. This measure has deleted the principle of limited liability of the shareholders and, as a result, has greatly affected the very principle of corporate law in our country. The documentation relating to the regulation of this material was then retained for years in decision makers’ drawers. At the time of the imposition of the measure, the situation has not moved from a dead point despite the strong initiative of the injured. In doing so, there is a contentious fact that such a grave intervention by the State has weakened the good image of the business environment of companies present on the Slovenian market. If we are to achieve a higher level of stability and predictability, it would be good to first understand past mistakes and try to correct them in a fair and just manner. In this case, we can say that the legal and political error of the decision-makers has been made, namely on the side of the executive branch or the legislative branch of authority. After all past attempts, it is clear today that the consequences of the contested law cannot be remedied without compensation to the injured members. According to the Slovenian Agency for Public Finance Records and Services, between 17 and 25 thousand private companies have been legally erased on business financial transactions. However, the amount of damage caused to a certain shareholder differs from one company to another. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are in the position that the injured shareholders must be reimbursed with fair and adequate compensation. However, the definition of the latter must also take into account the shared responsibility of the shareholders and the State. At the same time, we believe that the payment of compensation must be regulated in such a way as to comply with the constitutional and legal arrangements and the country's limited financial capacity. We believe that the solution to the problem, as envisaged in the proposal for a law on the elimination of injustices, is a new step towards strengthening the rule of law. The bill is the product of the long-term coordination needed to examine the problem and to identify the elements of fair and effective settlement of the damage caused. We are convinced that we have reached the beginning of a solution that is at least partially fair to the injured, but for the state institutions it must not be too burdensome. On the basis of these facts, we will be in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre of the Proposal for the Eliminate of Blame Law for the Deletion of Legal Persons from the Register of Justice for the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011 unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Your Honor! The law introduced by the Council of State in the parliamentary procedure has been radically amended by amendments to the coalition. This changed 21 of the 25 articles and the title of the law. The law seeks to resolve the situation of shareholders and shareholders of companies which were deleted in 1999 under the Financial Transaction Act. As a result of the removal of legal persons, liability from company obligations has been transferred to the natural persons who owned these companies. Simply put, this means that the creditors of these companies claimed the payment of their claims from the owners of the companies which had to account for the debts of the company with their own assets. The Slovenian Court Register recorded a large number of companies that either did not operate or did not have sufficient capital to operate. By means of the 1993 Act, the shareholders were called upon to act actively, either by removing the grounds for the deletion or by closing the company and withdrawing it from the Registry of Justice. If the company had not eliminated the reasons, the court would have taken care of the removal of the companies from the Registry. However, its owners would only be liable for existing obligations if the creditors were able to prove the very strict conditions laid down by the Company Act. This means that the owners of the companies expected their companies to be eliminated by the State and not to be liable for the debts of the company, since the likelihood of success of the transfer of liability for debts from the company to the owners in the legal proceedings is five percent. Seven years later, a law had been passed, which had been repealed by non-operative companies under an official obligation and had also provided that all the rights and obligations of undertakings were taken over by their owners under the law itself. This means that the law has laid down stricter conditions for the liability of owners than laid down in the applicable company law. Such regulations were not expected, although they had been available for 7 years to bring society in line with the rules. They have exercised their rights both before the Constitutional Court and before the European Court of Human Rights. They were unsuccessful. The Courts did not find that the State acted unlawfully as a result of the adoption of the legal regime. It is true, however, that in one segment, it favoured the complainants, namely those who were not active shareholders at the time of the disappearance, because they had resold their shares and therefore could not affect the fate of the company or its debts. Today, the owners of these companies, with the help of the Council of State and the coalition, expect the adoption of a law that will give them compensation from the State. Despite decisions made by the highest judicial authorities at home and abroad, they still consider that they are not responsible for the timely rehabilitation of their own companies. The bill before us today makes it possible for them to do so. On the basis of this, the State will pay compensation to the owners of the companies of 60 % of the damage found if they prove that they have carried out all the necessary activities and that the removal of the company or the transfer of the obligation could not be prevented. Since the law has been substantially amended today, its financial implications from the initial estimated 400 million have fallen to some 45 million euros, but the government does not guarantee this calculation, but its proponents do. We have before us a law that is still irrelevant. Its financial implications are completely unpredictable, even though they would have fallen first in 2023. When presenting the budgetary documents of this government, which already raises expenditure by 40%, without any revenue being raised at the same time, it must be clear to everyone that Slovenia is financially sinking. The result of a headless increase in expenditure is already a record public debt, a deficit and Europe's biggest structural deficit. He doesn't think that a public financial picture is a result of an epidemic. Because of this, you have produced only 5 billion losses, and the other 5 billion are due to the political decisions of this government, which are growing more than evident before the upcoming elections. Everything mentioned in the line shows that the approval of an irregular law with unpredictable budgetary implications at that time would be a completely unwise and politically motivated decision. In the SAB Group, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the debate on the proposed law, we are talking about at least two different types of entrepreneurship. The first is an enterprise where the capital and other resources of the enterprise are used to achieve the company’s basic objective through business activity, net profit, with the company settling all its obligations to the country, to the employees, to the suppliers, and to all other external and internal participants in the company. Secondly, entrepreneurship, in which capital and other resources of funds are used intentionally to employ an individual here and there to create a certain, usually small amount of income and a large, often impressive amount of debt. This type of entrepreneurship is also not after the year of payment of accounts, as this does not belong to his business philosophy. Payment of accounts in this perspective is first the obligation of the State to provide payment discipline, and then the decision of the entrepreneur is whether or not he will settle his obligations. Payment capacity and capital adequacy are economic categories which are irrelevant in this type of entrepreneurship. The proposal seeks to resolve the consequences of the transfer of liabilities of capital companies that have been erased from the register under the Financial Business Act by the shareholders and shareholders of deleted companies. In doing so, it is important to mention something that is trying to overlook all the crevices. The Financial Business Act, which has had far-reaching consequences for both creditors and shareholders of companies, provided that the provisions governing the disposal without liquidation procedure would enter into force later, in some cases even three years after the law was enforced. The company’s associates certainly had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the legal rules that the law then introduced into Slovenia’s legal order and with the consequences of their non-compliance. They didn't do that. The basic proposal for a law was made on the home labour body – it has undergone substantial changes to the Committee on the Economy. Of the 25 articles, 21 were amended by amendments and the title of the law was amended. The amended proposal of the law thus provides, inter alia, that the beneficiaries of the application shall begin the procedure for the application by submitting a settlement proposal with the State Attorney's Office, which must be defined within three months before the proposal. The Public Prosecutor’s Office shall then enter into an agreement with the beneficiary on the payment of the compensation, or an agreement on the collection of the debt shall be concluded with the creditor. If no agreement is reached, the beneficiary may bring an action before the competent court. A period of three years from the entry into force of the law shall be set for the lodging of the application. It is further provided that compensation for property damage may be paid in the form of monetary compensation, reimbursement either of movable or immovable property or of securities. Funds for the payment of monetary compensation shall be provided on a proposal in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and shall be paid in a maximum of four instalments, starting with payments after 1 January 2023. The assessment of the financial consequences of the law is the culmination of absurdity. First, it was estimated at EUR 300 to 400 million; 100 million – what is it for a wealthy country in Slovenia and, after re-examined to EUR 45 million, seven times less than in the original proposal. We will therefore decide on a proposal that has been amended to more than 80% of its basic content and in which the applicants have no idea what its financial implications will be. The social relations that the bill was trying to regulate were 15 years ago. Members of the Desus Group will not support the bill and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15 November 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? All he wants is Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President! The amendment to Article 5, first paragraph, will be amended to read as follows: the beneficiary of compensation under this Act is a person who has been a member or shareholder of a capital company or any other person who has shown a legal interest and to whom, in order to delete companies during the period from 23 July 1999 to 15 January 2008, has, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises, undergone obligations to delete a company which has partially or in full paid those obligations, must demonstrate that, within the prescribed period, it has carried out, in accordance with the law, the activities available and removal of the company and the transfer of obligations, it has not been possible or had to prevent. And now this change – “or that the company’s operation could not have been affected by it and for excusable reasons did not apply in the transitional proceedings or its application was unsuccessful for other reasons and did not have an authorised lawyer in these proceedings”. This is the amendment change. There's something else I need to add. When I listen to some of the explanations of the parliamentary groups, i.e. the views, I see that, at least some colleagues, did not take this literally, I would say to this, a legal crime that happened symbolically on my birthday – July 23, 1999. In the opinion of at least five lawyers who are specialists in corporate economic law and, above all, in economic status law, that they are literally a fugitive of the crime of the rule of law not only in Europe, they do not know such a case in the world. This threw then, I could say, a black light also on the business environment, on the legal business environment then in Slovenia. I could say something that law students, at least economic status law, in pre-graduate, postgraduate and also in economic or financial studies will study for years. I could say that for the first time that I heard about this deletion as a student at the Faculty of Law in Maribor after 2002 and later at the Master's degree in law, where I was actually taught by many lawyers. I remember at least four of them talking about this guy and these things. Colleagues and colleagues, before we compete, who will be louder, the voice is something in politics, but I think those arguments are why we have to correct these injustices, multi-layered. In my opinion, the first argument is that in Slovenia the rule of law works that the country, as one of the representatives of the National Assembly, is aware of the mistakes made by our colleagues and the government at that time in 1999. I also took a close look at a book that was published about a month ago. Prof. Dr. Šime Ivanjko wrote it, analyzed the adoption of this law at the time. It's very interesting that he's a mag. Janez Kopač said in the first part of the procedure, the law was adopted in the second reading and then in the third July 23rd, so in the first reading he said that the bill was thoroughly examined and supported. This is the law that has long been said to contribute to greater financial discipline. The only one who spoke back then, although there were very few Members at the National Assembly at the time, was a colleague of Bogomir Špiletic. I hope he's listening now. He was the only one, of course, in a democratic party that warned back then, and the Slovenian Democratic Party recalled the consequences of this law, particularly in its 27th article, which does not refer to the liquidation of the business, which is the standard procedure. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, this deletion of legal persons was somehow in the shadow of the disappearance of natural persons, these non-Slovakia people, who are only the media's most famous. For this crime, almost 25,000 deleted legal persons, as a result of which some 70,000 citizens could say, and Slovenian citizens have been affected by this law, there are only a few cases mentioned in this book. I may be able to tell some stories, life stories that touch you. For example, all debts fell on the company, even though it made the greatest effort to get rid of the company. Then the whole number of people who set up the company sold it, the second owner sold it to the third and in most cases made some debt for a state company, even the insurance companies, with the banks at the time, that was after the first rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank, then the New Ljubljana Bank; and in fact, the removal of legal entities taking place on the big triangle of Aleš Zalar, Nina Plaže and then the finance minister Mitja Gaspari, took place in the direction of covering the financial manoeuvres that the then companies, including the SCT and others, had to these small associates. In these companies, a number of construction workers, entrepreneurs working with large companies, were robbed, deprived. And just to hide these financial schemes then, Comrade Bandelli, read your book, look at what I've been going through for the last two months while I've been dealing with this law, let me get back to you, you're an entrepreneur yourself. [[…]] I can talk to you for an hour and I can tell you 30 cases. Have you ever studied possible economic status law in its sense, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u205	My friend, please don't disturb the speaker. I suggest you talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u206	that you will know the basic principles of what a limited liability company means, what a share company or a German Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung means. [[…]] And here's a whole series of suicide cases, colleague Bandelli, suicides of people, people who have lost everything. And what's the worst? What happened then was that Boštjan M. Zupančič, former judge at the European Court of Human Rights, said, and then there was that these people also complained in the final instance – at the ECHR. We know the Lekić case, which has given some solution, though unusual, and even a link to the ECHR. The term of office of Slovenian judges was also extended to the ECHR, according to the former judge of this court. He worked on the ECHR in that case, and at that time also Brother Aleš Zalar, who could have said that he was somehow prescribing the pace and lobbying literally that nothing would happen. Because of this, these people, this problem of deleted legal persons have never been on the cover of mainstream media, you will never see it on POP TV, RTV and on all other media, you will never see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u207	Comrade Bandelli, please, you will have your word. When Beznik is finished, you'll have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u208	Those who doubt, respected colleagues, read this book, and each case that is analyzed in the book, read to see what tragedies have occurred, what unusual conditions have occurred, in a legally regulated country. Slovenia had been in existence for 8 years at the time of this adopted law. And I could say – even a salad of mortals or, excuse the expression, by the government to the Members, to its own Members at the time it took place in the coalition. It should be noted that at the time the Minister of Economy was against this happening; in his own government, but the influence was then Mitje Gasparija and Company, those whom I mentioned, so strong that they succumbed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u209	Comrade Breznik, please, if you're referring to the amendment, not the rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u210	I believe that when I propose an amendment, I can further explain the amendment. And this amendment solves some of the things that the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed to. That is the essence of this amendment, which we have now proposed. Next thing you know, with your finger on the Council of State or on the civil initiative of these people who have suffered one cross road in almost 20 years, you can see why we had to accept so many amendments to literally change the law. If there is good will in the parliamentary groups and among Members, and if we are aware of it, a respected colleague, with an entire bureaucratic apparatus, advisers, experts in various fields with multidisciplinary knowledge, I think it is a good will to do and correct injustices. Now that you're saying this, colleague Bandelli, I remember sitting in my office three years ago, I got a call from a colleague to look out the window -- and out there they were standing in the rain of a mother with blind and visually impaired children, some disabled people on wheelchairs. Socially-feeling lions took one of their supplements, then sued, then even some of their mothers were by the house, tearing down their apartments. They were standing in the rain out here in front of the National Assembly. I invited them in, then they were accepted by a colleague of Irgle, who was running a petition commission at the time. And again, three people came by here, and I'm not gonna name them if there's nothing wrong with it, that's all right. Right on the left, but I'm not gonna name them, I'm so fair today. That we're looking for attention. Do you think those moms, those poor kids, the blind ones, in the rain, were filmed by some journalist, or do you think it was ever on POP TV, that Tjasha Slokar put this into transmission, or on RTV? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u211	Comrade Breznik, please focus on the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u212	What am I trying to say? There is an even greater tragedy, the children touch you more, but there are more families involved, and as a result, the children are affected. Many children did not have the same age as their peer if they were aware of what change or the introduction of such harmful legislation would mean in Slovenia at that time. Because of this, as a human, my colleagues here in the SDS and I think that even in NSA and even SMC, we are aware of these injustices. In a year and a half, this coalition has fixed a number of such injustices, even more so. And, unfortunately, Slovenia, even in transition, has done a number of wrongs. Therefore, we have volunteered to help with the professional colleagues, with all our knowledge that we have brought this legal matter to one condition, where there is also some positive opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which makes this law not questionable. Of course, before I finished, we were aware that this country's budget was not a bottomless bag. We are aware of the state in which we are, so it was with these amendments, which were in the first reading, that we made some guards. So it's not true what some opinions were that we don't know how much it's gonna cost us. We know about the limit that this could come to. And I think that's enough. Dear colleagues, if there is at least some humanity in us, at least a few hearts and good will, then we will help our citizens who want to contribute with their companies to this country, who have paid taxes that have been sorely wronged. This requires our humanity and our ethical attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I suggest you speak of the content of the amendment. The general debate was not required, it was held on the Committee, there were all possibilities and there is no need for us to spread these matters now and to discuss them. It's Marko Bandelli's turn first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you, President. There's not much to say here. I understand from my colleague Breznik that he probably has a colleague at his heart who asked him to protect him here, but the truth here is completely different. It was too easy to leave debts at the firm and I tell you in my first person, a lot of people did it, left debts and left. And even today this is happening, and here it was right that they had been erased and that it was done what was necessary. I asked you something else before. Why didn't you solve this problem from 2004 to 2008, if you have so much in your heart right now? You've been on the government for four years, you could solve this matter. Tell me, from 2004 to 2008. Now it's probably 20 thousand votes, it's the election campaign again, nothing else here, nothing else. Otherwise, I absolutely disagree with this because we know exactly what this is about. We know it's too easy. It's too easy. And it's not true what you said before that they worked for SCT, but the Coast said that year. There were bankruptcys later, they were later. They deliberately let the company run out of liquidity, no money, no matter what the state erases, no problem, they didn't think it would go into their personal ownership and they would have to answer for it themselves. Thank God for something. And that's what happened, and that's why we're absolutely not going to support it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u216	President, thank you very much for your word. Given how empathetic Mr Breznik spoke, I would just like to remind him that it was his government or the Government's opinion of 8 July 2021 that it was negative and it actually assessed that this law was not suitable for further consideration, for two essential reasons. The first was a formal decision, in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, that the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the liability of active shareholders for the debts of deleted companies would be unconstitutional or inconsistent with human rights or fundamental freedoms. The second is financial, as has already been said, that the debt would be between €300 million and €400 million, which would be a huge cost for the state budget, as well as potential breaches of the fiscal rule. That's your government's opinion. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u217	Comrade Korazi, we're talking about an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u218	Well, I have the right to an amendment because he said so himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u219	We're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u220	Yes, but Mr. Breznik used to say that before. And the point is, in fact, you should then warn your government or ask it why it is against. She also wrote to you why she was against it at the time and why she had a negative opinion, so that she does not constantly throw the ball on the other side, because you simply need to calm it on your side. See the opinion of the Government of 8 July 2021 and read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Just a few sentences based on the debate so far. I must admit that I really fully support the initiative and the will of the proposer, as far as this law is concerned, which is also here between us; and I think that somehow or somehow we want or do not want to be quite objective in these political debates. The one who wanted to listen was able to understand very clearly the position of our group in the presentation, and I am very much in favour of it myself. Many cases in the past in the Republic of Slovenia have been made after independence by so-called political and legal errors. And in the decision-making or proposing phase, there are certain cases that have literally affected so-called legal entities. And the fact is and we all know that the Slovenian legal order is based solely on German law. And unfortunately, the weaknesses were done when the German legal order was transferred to Slovenia's legal order, but the authors of such matters on the side of the executive branch of power, and the legislation has confirmed, in many areas, both bankruptcy and financial laws have appeared, I will just say – consciously, so-called legal voids. And certainly certain legal voids have been used by individuals and, if I may say so, also by the professional skills of law. And here it is now and today we are talking about the Financial Business Act, which had nothing else to do, at least in this work, with the simple administrative deletion of all inactive and uncapitalised legal persons. However, respected colleagues, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u223	Comrade Verbich, I'll warn you, too. The amendment speaks of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u224	I'll be right with you. Just that part of the intro. What I think is right is to expose himself – yes, but who was the author of this kind of, say, marriage grounds. The same person who proposed and also accepted the so-called Land Book Debt at the stage. And we know from this real legal area what damage has been done to the Slovenian creditors or those to whom they owed. I just conclude, Mr President, and therefore I think it is right that this ground, which is before us, is primarily intended for those who have indeed been harmed by the deletion of the inactive system of court registries, because they have not deleted the so-called shareholders in due time despite their roles. And I am firmly in the position that in these processes it will be very detailed to identify who is entitled and who is not entitled to such compensation. Thank you very much, Chairman, and I conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Gregor Perich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u226	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, proponents, representatives of the Council of State, a good evening to all! As my predecessors have already said in one way or another, we are dealing with a problem that occurred a while ago, which is legally also relatively complex financially. This solution has been sought for quite some time, and I can tell you that a number of rescues have also warmed up. There is also an understanding of all these activities, which have also taken place at various stages of the consideration of this law, because we know that the drafter of this law was the Council of State. In the light of his specific role in the regulation we have, he was also unable to table amendments on his own in the legislative process and then took over this function by the National Assembly as such or Members. When we were looking for solutions together, I can say that this is such a beautiful example of some cooperation between the two houses within our Parliament, namely the National Assembly and the State Council; and I believe that this can be an example for solving complex problems such as this, in any other case; or for situations that are simpler. As it is said, in one previous phase, we have already addressed several different amendments, which then improved the original version of the law, which gave the applicant a substantial or difficult, difficult task – to assess the damage first, to set up a financial framework, and in particular to define the procedures and the course itself, how these injustices, which were committed, are also eliminated. Already in the previous phase of all the amendments, we have tried to find as many answers as possible in this cooperation, taking into account, to the maximum extent possible, the comments we have received on the one hand from the Legislative and Legal Service, on the other hand, by experts who have also been involved in this area for many years. So we also came before this respected congregation with a solution that we consider to be the best possible approximation in relation to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u227	My friend Perich, I'm asking for an amendment. We have already had positions of parliamentary groups in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u228	I am focusing – to the maximum – thank you very much, Vice-President – on the amendments themselves. At the final stage today we have another amendment ahead of us, which is also trying to define the procedures themselves, so that the very course of this elimination of injustice will be carried out in the most simple and predictable way that will also enable people or those companies that have been erased to know who is entitled and how to do it together. The amendment to Article 5 was tabled, as has been said, for many others. I estimate that this solution is such that it will enable us to take a step forward in this sense, and we will get a law that is particularly important for us to be able to carry out these procedures in one particularly predictable way which will not be a burden for those who will carry out these procedures in one way or another. This has also been one of the important criteria, so I think that this amendment to Article 5 is also such that it will simplify and make these procedures, as has already been said, predictable and such that they will not cause undue stress and complications in the implementation itself. And if I conclude, it seems important to me that we in some way also express our liberal attitude at the final stage, because all the similar moves that have been made in the past, which have in any way the consequence of a deletion, are a grave attack on property rights, and then, sooner or later, some court or political epilogue. In this short 30-year history of Slovenia, these cases were far too much than we could have expected. This one's one of these. I am glad that this deletion, which has occurred, has led to some grave interference with property rights, and then we are putting an end to it. Unfortunately, however, because of past mistakes, the state must also take over part of its guilt or burden, which, here, we must be honest and honest, is disproportionate and, if we are looking at it, rather in favour of the state budget than in favour of the deletions. In particular, it is a symbolic gesture that the legislator, or, if we want, the countries, recognise this error and then, in some way, eliminate it. In the SMC, and I'm going to back you up and I'm going to back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u230	I'm just gonna replicate my buddy Bandell. Comrade Bandelli, you've already told me why the first Yanshe government has done nothing. If we read this book, we might find that Professor Šime Ivanjko is talking about three parts. The first part – solutions in 2007 – was passed at the end of the year by a law that ended the law. Then, in 2011 in this National Assembly, the transfer of the debt of the deleted company to the shareholders was abolished. And then the next repair of 2018. We are now essentially finishing all these repairs with this very bill, respected colleague Bandelli. That's my replica of your observation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. Since he's not here, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on regulating the space within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the Magi for further explanation of the bill. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u232	Dear Members and Members, good evening! Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly. The proposal for a new law on the regulation of space by structure follows fully the applicable Law on the regulation of space, which has been in force for three years. Its purpose is to improve those areas that have proved necessary during the implementation of the law. The key changes introduced by the new Law on Spatial Planning will be in the area of spatial planning, land policy measures and the provision of land policy funding, all with a view to better managing the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts both at national and local level and to better managing land policy as key elements for achieving sustainable spatial development. The new law also introduces a project approach to the adoption of spatial acts with the aim of making the process more efficient, without duplication, without unnecessary time constraints, i.e. a short and focused process on content itself. The State Spatial Plans will thus establish a project group, work will be carried out simultaneously between all sectors, procedures for planning interventions into the space and procedures for obtaining the building permit will therefore continue, and in some cases parallel. The environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for the preparation of spatial implementing acts will be integrated for both state and municipal spatial acts. Since amendments have been tabled to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, I propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the same meeting, that is at this meeting, also carry out a third reading of the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises. Let me say that the third reading will propose a harmonisation amendment to Article 66. This is necessary because the amendment to Article 64 was adopted in the context of the second treatment on the home working body, and this led to the internal non-conformity of the bill. The adoption of the amendment to Article 64 has led to the restructuring and renumbering of the entries in this Article and, therefore, the reference to Article 64, first paragraph, must be corrected in Article 66, so it is purely technical harmonisation. Once again, let me just highlight some of the key innovations regulated by the Space Regulation Act. At the legal level, the types of spatial acts for which a mandatory comprehensive environmental impact assessment is required and those for which it is not necessary are determined, which means that we are reducing administrative procedures for assessing whether a comprehensive assessment is necessary or not. The integration of the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and the preparation of spatial implementing acts is introduced, so it is not two separate procedures, but an integrated procedure. A project mode of national spatial planning shall be introduced by setting up a project group. A new partial consolidated procedure is added, allowing for an additional way of simultaneously preparing State spatial implementing acts and issuing a comprehensive authorisation. A new procedure for the technical updating of spatial implementing acts is also being established, which means that no longer procedure is necessary for the technical updates of spatial acts. An additional way of showing public benefit is introduced in decommissioning procedures where necessary due to derogations in a more detailed design phase. The provisions on the preliminary right of the State and the municipalities shall be amended. A single site information document shall be introduced, including the contents of the certificate of intended use of the land to be withdrawn. I believe that this is an important upgrade to the existing Law on the regulation of space in terms of a more efficient, but at the same time an approach to environmental protection, nature and the possibilities for the participation of the public concerned, NGOs in public hearings and other institutes that this process preserves or even builds up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I therefore give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u234	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, once again a fine evening! At its 33rd meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the proposaler, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space pointed out that the proposal for a law by structure fully follows the law now in force since 1. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The purpose of the bill is to improve those areas which have proved necessary during the implementation of the current law. The key solutions presented by the bill are changes in spatial planning, land policy measures and the provision of land policy funding, all with a view to more efficient management of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts at national and local level and more effective management of land policy as key elements for achieving sustainable development. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had made comments to a large number of articles and that most of the comments were addressed appropriately by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In a short discussion, opposition parliamentary groups drew attention to the problem of excessive and poorly regulated public advertising. It was pointed out that the advertising intensity in the public space went across the border, and it is shown in the growth of advertising facilities that fit into and out of settlements. Although Article 35 of the bill prohibits the establishment of advertising facilities, the possibility of advertising on various agricultural sites remains. As a result, an amendment to the amendment to the committee was tabled, which should remove, within two years of the entry into force of the law, all permanent or temporary facilities, devices or advertising items, at the expense of the owner. The amendment did not receive majority support at the time of the vote. With regard to the proposed 120th Article, which regulates private needs and initiatives to change the use of space in municipal spatial plans, it was pointed out by the Slovenian Parliamentary Group that such initiatives were one of the main spatial planning movements. For reasons of difficulty, they represent a burden for the preparers and the space regulators. Since proposals and initiatives relating to spatial planning are intended to pursue private interest, it is reasonable and necessary for the municipality to charge compensation for the work involved and the costs incurred in regulating these initiatives. In accordance with this position, an amendment was tabled for their part, whereby the payment of a fee for this service would be compulsory and not merely the possibility for an individual municipality to prescribe a fee for that purpose, that is, if it so decides, as proposed in Article 120(1) of the proposal. This amendment was not adopted at the time of the vote either. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 November. I am putting to the debate Article 98 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. Anybody want to talk? I see there's more interest, I'll open the list. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first is given the word Mr Bojan Podkoršek, followed by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u236	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak with his two associates, nice greeting! Vice President, if you'll allow me a little wider, then I won't speak to the other amendments. We are very pleased, too, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, that this law is on the table of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law on the regulation of space. Since I am second in this National Assembly, even when I was active in the local community, in the municipality, we are constantly engaged in this law on space regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. I often come to realize that in the past we have found that sometimes the left hand does not know what the right hand does. In the Republic of Slovenia we have several investors, the most important investor is certainly the country that deals with the strategic projects of the local community, here I have in mind the municipality, economic enterprises, larger, smaller, individuals. Of course, every investor wants a larger or smaller investment to come to this investment as soon as possible, and I have not heard anyone in the Republic of Slovenia that he wants to look for a shorter route to circumvent legislation signed by the State. Minister, I must be pleased to express the satisfaction of your persistence in this law, of course also to your colleagues, to those who are here with you today, as well as to those who are in the Ministry, because this law makes it very important to make the investments needed in the Republic of Slovenia easier. This law mainly touches on spatial acts, which are extremely important, including for state projects; above all, it is very important for a respected minister to reduce environmental impact assessments. Procedures are being brought together, this seems extremely important to me, and it is also important that a single site information document combines local and national information. In short, it is important to point out that with such a law, which is in the National Assembly, we have already had it on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, even there, we have felt that we are on the right track, very much of a unified opinion in this law also with regard to amendments, but I firmly believe that there is a change in this law on integrated space regulation in the future. Of course, it is a pleasure and I think that smaller and larger investors will be pleased when this law comes into force, which I think is important to stress. And it is right to speak in the National Assembly about things that are bad and that we also know to commend those things that are positive and that are good for our citizens and citizens. Madam Vice President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Gregor Perič. After him, mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u238	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, director of the Directorate and others and lady from the Ministry of Environment and Space. I have to continue here, where my colleague the predecessor has finished. In fact, this is an important step forward in the area of spatial regulation. The material that we have before us is mainly or to a large extent professional, we are not dealing with any political issues, so the procedure that we have taken so far in the National Assembly, such – especially nicely listening, without any controversy, is actually a technical, professional solution, this is such a law that citizens, I believe, are less likely to read. However, for all citizens, as well as the economic operator, as well as the local community, the country and the many national authorities working in this area are extremely important at the end of the investor phase. Here, too, we have found from practice in the past that there is never enough done. Any citizen can determine when he wishes to obtain a building permit that these procedures are sometimes too long, not only when we have, as citizens and citizens, or citizens and citizens, legitimate expectations that it will happen or that it will be a larger, more important infrastructure project, whether it is roads, water supply or something else. Here it turns out very quickly how these mills can grind very slowly, and therefore it seems good to me that in this law there are mainly solutions that are designed to keep the procedures that have run so far in parallel and at the same time; and here it saves on time and also on energy, that everything is much more predictable and friendly to an investor, to someone who wants to put something into space. After all, it is also local or state decision makers much easier to bring some projects to the goal, to the realization itself. This strategic aspect of the use of space, I think this consciousness is getting stronger in us. Space is a limited good and its usurpation in some way, when we place something, put it in space, is often irreversible. Or if we misthink these solutions, they are solutions that, for centuries, can affect the use of space. And these solutions, which the law offers, also make it easier to place more appropriately in space, and above all to use space more rationally than this. Digitalisation, which is also affected by this law, allows for inconspicuous possibilities of improvement in this area, because it is difficult for one office to know what is in practice done in nature, and by digitisation, many papers that you once had to look for in various archives are found in electronic form in different layers virtually using a single click. There is still much room for progress. However, – here I have to point out – in a discussion with various representatives of different state institutions, he particularly often commends the land book, which has taken huge steps forward and remarkable progress. To help those who need these services and applications, this is extremely kind and supportive, which we can also actually do from home or someone who deals with it from the office. Sometimes we had to go for a walk. The second aspect, which I think is extremely important, is the integration of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, which is very complex procedures that are being followed, where there is a need to obtain a lot of different consent from the co-legislators when putting some infrastructure into space; and this often takes a lot of time and money. If this is integrated in the way this law foresees, this will all take place much faster and more rationally. A significant step forward also seems to me to be an aspect of the upgrade of the local inspection institute. Although the congregations did this as a document that gave you a starting point. Now with this upgrade, this instrument becomes much more flexible and allows, from the point of view of interventions to space in the individual settlement, or in terms of deviation from spatial acts or temporary use of space, a much more user-friendly view. I would also like to point out that these solutions are in particular such that they also allow for, for example, the upgrading of the rules for the establishment of construction plots, as well as the upgrading of the relevant financial instruments of land policy. In practice, this has an effect in terms of making it easier to assess how much of this space has been used, to the extent possible, from the point of view of the exploitation of the space. Because when we look at the spatial development of a congregation, it always begins in this sense when an area is construction but not used; on the other hand, there is a very strong pressure on additional construction. On the other hand, we have another guardian of the premises, and this is the Ministry of Agriculture, because always building in terms of expansion of construction areas goes to the detriment of agricultural areas or forest areas; and with all these mechanisms it is easier to predict this. This law was also amended in a number of articles during the transitional hearing in the National Assembly. At this stage, the amendments were slightly lower, and specifically to Article 98 and Article 310 141. For my understanding, the 98th article in this aspect is even more important, especially in changing the State Spatial Plan, when there is a so-called amendment, so that the State Spatial Plan is actually being fully revised and in this regard also a textual writing and a graphic work of the State Spatial Plan is being prepared. I can say that we are satisfied with the SMC solutions and that this will, in particular, allow for a more rational use of space and also greater kindness to both investors and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! True, space is a complex matter and has as many interests as stakeholders. Commonly, interests are as diverse and numerous as those of stakeholders, and this often causes conflicts in the space. In fact, the task of this law is that the different interests of society, of state, of local communities are governed by the way that everyone is satisfied, according to their own words. This law somehow continues the tradition of the previous law, there are certain improvements that allow for hastening procedures, which of course is welcome. However, it might be possible to highlight two issues that may need to be addressed in the near future within two, three, four years, of course, climate change, and, of course, to put into place a way of spatial planning and adaptation to climate change. These are the fact that we can no longer stop them; we must simply adapt to them. And if we know that extreme weather events are going to intensify, if we know that centuries of high water is going to happen by the end of the century almost every year, and that these spikes are going to hang, then we're going to have to cut into already existing rights in the near future. And this, of course, presents a certain challenge. This means that we will have to rebuild, for example, the flood plains or determine new flood areas or decide that some areas that have so far been flood-safe will no longer be flood-proof. Which I would also like to refer to climate change here, the whole European Union is adopting ambitious plans to deal with climate change. Initiatives are already emerging in the European Union to somehow modify the Aarhus Convention with the aim of putting facilities into space more efficiently, faster. Also before Slovenia are major and important challenges in this regard. We will have to put a very important infrastructure into space, that is to say, put it in place and build it within ten years. And there will probably be one European agreement or a European Commission guide on how to speed up the installation and construction of such facilities that we need. But this isn't the subject of this law right now, it might be a little broader thinking. We have also tabled in the opposition one proposal for an amendment, which I believe my colleagues will also further explain. We've actually noticed the problem of pollution of space by advertising panels, and we think that we should somehow address it and remove it from space. Since we also have several panes in the room that have been abandoned for years and years, they also grow like mushrooms in the rain, and we even have the feeling that whenever a law is passed, there is a way to avoid it. And I'm also going to point out one problem in the next marriage, how to prevent new black construction. That's one thing we're gonna have to address. Perhaps even in spatial planning and in the near future, this can be addressed in ways to prevent new black constructions, or new illegal interventions, into space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this point. Not at this point. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 141 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want a word here? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 310 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Mr. Trcek wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I thought we were just going to discuss the amendments, not some general debate we've already had. I'll stick to the rules of procedure. Of course, there are different forms of pollution. One form of pollution is also pollution by advertising, in particular outside the settlement areas, agricultural, forestry, water, other land, to what colleague Reich used to say. And somehow the amendment goes in this direction to the 310th Article word »1. January 2015” replaced by “1. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: I would even like a year less and literally the garbage in question to be cleaned up, whether it will be written there – an open company in Bosnia, or taxes are stupid, or pubs in NSI white T-shirts, or whether you vote for Franco Duck. Let the bambies walk there, not that we have this kind of pollution. So very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija also wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u244	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to get back to the previous debate of Member Duck. Not only are these billboards, boards sometimes almost already houses, not only are they in charge, but they also actually affect a number of factors. The first factor is certainly that they affect nature, environment, space, and secondly, we have also found that traffic on these roads or roads is essential. The first aspect is certainly very problematic because it has recently been discovered that even a large number of animals reach across, say to the boards, depending on whether it is deer or any other animal, and that even then this paper with this glue, which is very specific, is eaten and essentially poisoned in this way. This is the first matter that is very problematic and should indeed be addressed as soon as possible, and this amendment has also been proposed so that matters can be settled as soon as possible. Another issue is that agricultural land is being destroyed. And we have just before Ptuj a typical example of these boards, or even before Maribor there is something similar, where quality working land is destroyed many times because of also, yes, boys in white or, we will say, Boys with Praprotna. Yes, things should be arranged for the sake of nature as soon as possible, for the benefit of animals, especially in the interests of quality, a better life for people. In order to protect itself as soon as possible and to better regulate the space that we will actually need to protect more specifically and also more specifically in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u245	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u246	Yeah, 'cause my buddy wanted it well-intentioned, but the guys from Praprotna are a good national entertainment band; unlike these guys on these jumbo posters. Just do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u247	So much for sticking to the rules of procedure, Dr. Ducky, but okay. The next panellist is Mr Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u248	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. The amendment to this Article is linked to the provision of Article 35 of the Law on the regulation of premises which refers to restrictions on advertising outside inhabited areas. There are quite a few professional arguments that talk about the harmful effects of these roadside boards, especially on traffic safety, as well as the impact on the aesthetic appearance of Slovenian landscape. And abroad, they are aware of this problem and have already settled their legislation in this way. We regret that an amendment has not been adopted on the working body to remove such objects, so that we have tabled an amendment to the LMŠ with the rest of the opposition today, which would at least shorten the transitional period, thus shorten the date after which such advertising would no longer be allowed. The existing bill provides for a three-year transitional period. We believe that a two-year transitional period is long enough for the municipalities to be adequately prepared for these new provisions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak wanted the text first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u250	This Article 35 and consequently the date of entry into force in Article 310 shall not be a coincidence. We, too, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, are aware of the need to partially prevent this anarchy, which is present in Slovenia as far as the composition of these panels is concerned. We had foreseen a somewhat longer deadline for coordination, but I do not object to this amendment by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Rudi Medved also wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. It is precisely because the legal provision does not provide for the removal of objects already standing, that we stand by and have proposed a shortening of this period. After experience – I have also worked for some time in the municipal administration – I know that spatial acts or the establishment of settlement areas can be arranged at municipal level within two years. However, of course, we think it is necessary to shorten this period also because, from the adoption of the law to the prohibition, of course, these travel boards will also grow, because during the transitional period these Panamas will still be possible to set up. And already, if you're going from Trojans to Ljubljana, there's quite a few of them every mile. And also, in order to at least partially ease the additional flooding of these roadside boards, we propose a shortening of this deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 333 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want a word? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, 18 November, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal of the Civil Code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Andre Visiak, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u254	Dear Members and Members, welcome again! The proposal for a new construction law fulfils the objectives of administrative decommissioning and the promotion of sustainable economic development. The structure follows the existing Construction Law, which also applies for 3 years. Renovation builds on the existing law and the implementation of procedures so far. On the basis of identified shortcomings, errors are being corrected and complemented by existing regulatory solutions, so that it is possible to implement construction procedures more quickly and efficiently in the same way as ensuring the protection of public interests and the legal safety of all participants in construction. As with the law on space regulation, the text of the construction law continues with the process of digitisation of data, services, procedures. Monitoring of implementation is recorded in such a way that this new reality is already taken into account. Since only three amendments have been tabled in addition to the draft law, I propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide that a third consideration of the Draft Construction Law will be held at this meeting. The building law follows and eliminates the shortcomings of the current one, does not change the concept, and this is why it is also an important message for the professions not to put the system on the head, but simply to upgrade and introduce some solutions to more effective procedures in this law. I summarize the most crucial improvements in the construction law into the following. The new Proposal for a Construction Law regulates procedures relating to the postponement of enforcement, following the decision of the Administrative Court to the so-called right to respect at home. This is, in my view, a very important article which introduces a solution in the light of the dilemmas raised by the Constitutional Court decision. An additional legal basis is established for the operation and management of procedures in electronic form – eBuilding. The law also complements the provisions on the implementation of project competitions and extends them, in addition to the requirements already laid down in other laws, to the area of decision-making in spatial acts and after the decision of the Government and the municipal council of each municipality. The law seeks to reduce friction between architects and engineers and provides for the participation of all relevant professions in an equal manner at all stages. In the management of works, the law relies on regulated professions already defined by other legislation, such as the Commercial Law. An important provision concerning the acquisition of a building permit following a reduced finding procedure, which is also supplemented by a 30-day deadline, has been sent to the authorities issuing the building permit for respect. The administrative authorities will take into account the opinion of the competent authorities and bodies acting as rapporteurs in the procedure, which shall also apply to the assessment of the conformity of works with spatial acts, where the rapporteur is the new municipality, which also adopts spatial implementing acts. The duration of implementation of the building permit is expected to be shorter as the administrative unit will no longer check the content of compliance with the spatial act as this is transferred to the municipality; and this procedure is dismissed. The law re-enables the possibility for the investor to start building on his own responsibility after the completion of the building permit, where there is no need for an environmental impact assessment. The possibility of carrying out treatments by means of videoconferences is determined, not only in physical form. Entrepreneurs will also be able to place storage facilities in their yard for up to three years in addition to existing production facilities. The construction of temporary facilities is allowed, for example, this is very important at the time of the epidemic. Then a so-called smaller reconstruction is introduced, bypassing the gap between maintenance and reconstruction, and there is also the possibility of inspection of non-requisition facilities being carried out through municipal inspection. The law provides that non-governmental organisations operating in the field of environmental and nature protection as well as civil initiatives shall have and maintain the status of a party to the proceedings. This also follows the appropriate placement of the public concerned in these proceedings. Thank you very much, distinguished Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Podkrodsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u256	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. The esteemed Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak with his associates! Let me present a summary of the report to the Proposal for a Construction Law. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 33rd session of 27. Ten. 2021 as a parent working body was considered by the Government of the Proposal for a Construction Law submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration. In the introductory explanation, the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Area shall be acting on behalf of the applicant. Andrej Vizjak presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill and stressed that the proposal does not radically affect the content of the current law, but simply eliminates the errors found and significantly bureaucraticly complicates the procedures for obtaining a building permit, while preserving environmental concerns, ensuring the rights of the people concerned. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that they had submitted a written opinion to the draft law and that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups in large majority took account of their comments, while the Ministry of Environment and Space provided a written explanation for others. At the joint meeting, the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Interested Group of Local Interests also gave support to the draft law. In the debate, the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups highlighted, among other things, the problems related to the revised arrangements for the payment of the municipal contribution for a short period of 15 days, which is available to the rapporteurs to issue opinions on the compatibility of the construction proposal with the provisions of the spatial acts. They also stressed that, by means of an amendment to Article 10 of the bill, they proposed that inspection should be extended to areas in which discrimination against persons with disabilities occurred. Among other things, they pointed to Article 48 of the bill, which excludes NGOs with public interest status in the field of environmental protection as party participants in the process of issuing a building permit. They also stressed that the proposed content of this Article constitutes discrimination against non-governmental organisations and have therefore tabled an amendment to this Article which would allow the status of a party to the construction permit process for NGOs as well. In coalition parliamentary groups, however, they stressed that the proposal of the law ensures equality of professions and provides accelerated procedures for the issuance of building permits. They also welcomed the recently introduced eBuilding as well as the simplification of the procedures for the legalisation of facilities. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the members of the Left, the LMŠ and the non-aligned Members, the SAB and the SD to Article 9. The Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 November. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I'm opening the list. Here you go. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr. Edward Paulic. Get ready, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u258	Madam President, thank you for your word. I will discuss this amendment more broadly, just as some parliamentary practice has been established. And in the beginning, Minister, I must tell you that you always surprise us. I'm not talking about "stupid taxes". For the last time, you brought an illegal article on our parliamentary bench to the meeting of the home committee, which would play the referendum will of the people, as expressed in the referendum on the Water Act, and wanted to be adopted in some way quietly. In recent days we can read or track some new strange coincidences in the media that suggest that the adoption of the Construction Law is at least potentially burdened by corruption risks. I'll tell you why. The resolution on the declaratory activity adopted by this National Assembly states that the preparation or adoption of regulations is the primary task of the State Administration and therefore ministries must be staffed and technically trained to monitor and regulate the areas for which they are established. We can understand from the media – you will either confirm this or reject it – that you have dissolved the Environmental and Space System Service, which specializes in drafting legislation. We can understand from the very explanation of the bill's proposal that Neffat was involved in the drafting of the amendments to the Construction Law, which, by some strange coincidence, is also legally represented by one of the members of this National Assembly. At the very least, the issue is why the internal legal service of the Ministry did not participate in the drafting of this law. And if we look at the article in this law that speaks of the legalization of black buildings, we see one key change. So far, it has been possible to legalise objects under an article that speak of longer-lasting objects that have been illegally placed before 1. 1. 1998. Following a new proposal, this period will be substantially delayed and it will be possible to legalise all illegal facilities built before 1. 1. 2005. I must say that there are some strange coincidences here, that I will not say anything else, and I will not go into detail, but we also know that this case is under the Commission's scrutiny to prevent corruption. As regards the amendment to Article 5 tabled by the opposition, the proposal for amendments to the Construction Law amends the provision referring to the payment of the municipal contribution. Under the current legislation, the payment of this contribution is a condition for obtaining a building permit. According to the new proposal, the payment of the municipal contribution will be a condition for the application of the start-up of the building, that is, just before the investor starts his investment. Basically, this proposal is to pay for the municipal contribution when applying for construction, okay, and it goes against the citizens. But as it is written today, it opens up an even greater possibility of playing law. Again in the media, we can read that some use existing legislation in such or other ways. That is why we are putting an amendment into the LMŠ to prevent this possibility of abuse, and I will explain on a case-by-case basis where the problem of this new regime is. The investor will apply for the start of construction in the administrative unit and the law specifies the documents to be attached by the investor, let's say he will not attach a certificate of municipal contribution paid. Since the registration of the start of construction itself is not part of the administrative procedure, the administrative unit does not have any mechanism to require the investor to complete the application. And that's why, according to the office of duty, the building application will be recorded. Thus, the condition is formally met when the investor can start construction; and of course it would be logical for the inspector to stop such construction without the public contribution paid by the law. But in this construction law, you have also amended an article that discusses the powers of inspection, namely, an inspector may issue a construction stop measure if it is carried out without registration or where the application does not contain the data provided for by the law, except – and I will now simply say – except for the certificate of payment of the municipal contribution. Which means if an investor doesn't pay a utility contribution on a building application, the inspector can't stop it. And in view of all this experience, we have quite a few of them, Mr Minister, I simply cannot get rid of the feeling that there is once again a specific agenda in the background, just as it was in the case of amendments to the Water Act, just as it was at the meeting of the parent working body with this famous article 66. Therefore, in the opposition, we decided to table an amendment suggesting that the condition for registering the declaration of construction is the submission of all the required documentation required by this law, i.e. the payment of the municipal contribution. And in this way, the inspection will have the possibility that if the investor fails to correct this contribution at the start of the construction, it will be able to stop this construction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the motion for a procedural motion, let me just explain that, at the previous point, I allowed a broader debate at the request and the appeal of Ambassador Podkrajška, because we were just discussing the amendment to Article 1 of that law. And I will also allow the construction bill to do the same, so that you will all have a level playing field for the debate. This explanation was given because I suppose, Mr Boris Doblekar, you have a procedural proposal on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You're obviously reading my mind, but it's okay to say anything else, but the LMŠ Member has misinterpreted your well-intentionedness so that there's more to be said. Because he said it was a general practice that we could discuss everything at the amendment, but we're in second reading. However, in the general debate at first reading, what he said is true, but at first point a general debate can be held, not at second reading. And then you start mixing apples and pears here and discussing all that. But we're not in the Waters Act today, and we're not, and I don't know what kind of affairs we're not in, but we're in the Law on Spatial Planning under the Construction Law. These are completely different things than the Water Act and I don't know what yet. I'd ask them to stick to the darkness if they're already abusing the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u261	Mr. Doblekar, a moment to answer. If you listened carefully to the debate by your colleague Paulic, you could understand that everything he mentioned a little bit more than the topic of the amendment concerns the process of receiving and preparing materials for the new construction law. I also closely monitored the hour during his debate, and for only 3 minutes he took a fellow Member to explain a little bit more about the darkness. And, as it is said, your fellow Member, Mr Bojan Podkrášek, addressed me specifically in his debate earlier and asked me to allow him a broader debate; and I did so. I see no reason why we should limit the debate. Let me correct you a little bit more in your explanation of the rules of procedure. When we hold a general debate on the law, of course, there is a very general debate, but when we are having a second reading of the law, it is true that in general parliamentary practice a rule has been established that a more general debate is allowed in the first amendment to amend the law. However, this is not the general debate institute, as defined by the Rules of Procedure, if we are already precise and exact. Mr Paulič wanted a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Here you can see the double criteria of the SDS Members, and when his fellow Member discussed it more broadly, colleague Doblekar was silent when I did the same, and he answered. I must add, however, that I touched the Water Act only at this point that touched the Construction Law. In fact, the Minister brought a member of the Construction Law to the meeting of his mother’s working body who touched or bypassed the articles of the Water Act. My debate was within the framework of the Construction Law. Once again, your duality appears.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I'll take that as a procedural explanation to my colleague Doblekar. If we continue to debate in the sports spirit, the next word is mag. Dejan Židan, or I apologize, Mr Minister wanted a word earlier. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u264	I will not respond to any other observations that have come along, but I will stick to the topic because it is very important, even in a developmental sense, as well as in terms of protecting the environment and nature. This construction law was created by the Ministry of Environment and Space, within the framework of the expert team at the Ministry of Environment and Space. This law was not written by any law firm, and that is a fact. This is a demanding act; in fact, it is a complexity of both laws, which is why they are also at the same time under consideration, both the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Construction Law. They intertwine, complement, upgrade and, in fact, it is impossible for them to entrust such a difficult task to a legal society, or even one. It is true, however, that we have worked with some in this respect to verify certain solutions, which have indeed been very limited. This law firm you mentioned has nothing to do with the work that is a problem in relation to the Member. Nor is it because of the so-called longer-lasting objects under this law, this is called Building Law 1 (GZ-1), in fact an upgrade of the regime that has been in force so far and is already in force in the current law. The longer-lasting objects are, under Article 117, buildings that were built before 1998. The current construction law, which is moving this year to 2005, has nothing to do with the facilities before 1998, because they already have this possibility to obtain a decision on this status of the longer-lasting facility today, this is according to the law in force. To all those who have had such an object that meets the conditions for a longer-lasting object, which is also in Article 117, nothing changes with the new law, because they can already do so today. And if I've been following the public data correctly, I don't know a specific case, and I don't care because I'm not dealing with it, it's a 1997 facility. That's one thing. However, as regards municipal contributions, I would like to draw attention to the very related subject matter of both laws, namely the Construction Law and the ZUREP. ZUreP sets out very clearly the obligation to pay a municipal contribution, and this is of course a municipal matter, a municipal duty, also subsequently. The obligation to pay a municipal contribution to those facilities where it is not paid shall never be extinguished. That's something to be paid for. And if such a facility is connected to municipal infrastructure, it is sanctioned through Article 290 ZUREP. Dear Member, if you miss these provisions in the Construction Act, I can assure you that this is in a double, it is said in the Law on the Regulation of Space, and that it cannot go unsanctioned to avoid paying a municipal contribution. I think it is fair that all those who have built the municipal infrastructure, mainly through their contributions, based on municipal investment activities, are, of course, paid through the payment of all those who are building, including this municipal contribution to a certain value back or to the further expansion of the municipal infrastructure. We are aware of the importance, the enforcement of this requirement, and we do not allow this to be avoided. Moreover, we are substantially more precise in our commitment to the payment of this. But, once again, I also understand that you welcome this solution, that after the implementation of the e-construction, this is an electronic way, transferred to the start phase of construction from the current stage of building the building permit that will remain in force, as today, until the establishment of this digitalised way of e-building. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Paulic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I'll try very briefly. You said the law wasn't written by a law firm, but she was looking into certain solutions. And earlier in the debate I did not want to expose either the anniversary or the Member of Parliament, you highlighted the 1997 anniversary. The fact is that the construction is carried out for several months and then the building or hut or whatever it was can be upgraded. And the law explicitly states that the deadline begins or that the cut date is when the object is constructed and no longer changes. And that's why I'm saying it's a strange coincidence, and you've also checked with the law firm that this deadline has shifted from 1. 1. 1998 to 1. 1. 2005. As far as the payment of the municipal contribution is concerned, I said, we welcome the shift, the suspension of the payment to the start of the construction, but once again, the administrative unit of the investor cannot in any way warn that the application is incomplete. The inspector of such construction has no right to stop, and that is a fact. The payment of the municipal contribution will be suspended until the licence is issued. And this problem was pointed out by municipalities, which represent the payment of the municipal contribution of one of the basic revenues for the regulation of municipal infrastructure. And that, Minister, is a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Minister, he wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u268	Yes, honourable Member, just an additional explanation why the 2005 year is not just that. In the phase of public decommissioning, when many submitted proposals, opinions and comments to the Construction Law, the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia also made a moving proposal that this deadline should be at least 20 years ago. And that would mean that in three years there will be a second anniversary, which is today because it's moving. This seemed unacceptable to us and then we followed the proposal of the municipalities that proposed the year 2005 for a very well-founded reason, which is why we have summarised it. In the period 1995 to 2004, the situation in the spatial acts of the municipalities was the worst and most irregular. As a result, many such buildings were not problematic for space and were not built in accordance with spatial implementing acts because the situation of these spatial implementing acts, after the recognition of the municipalities responsible for them, was poor. Therefore, the possibility of these objects being declared longer-standing objects, of course under all the conditions governed by the law, which are relatively strict, laid down in 2005. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor. After him, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Mr. Minister with co-workers, welcome! Of course, we have an extremely compromised law ahead of us. I remember right when we had an infrastructure committee here, I sat in the same place, we sat together in this place, the committee lasted from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., a complicated committee, a lot of materials, and they started flying individual papers. And somewhere between them is a paper of a coalition, which, of course, was prepared by your ministry, which brings something, some improvement. And thank God we've been paying attention to the expression water. And then in a multi-hour hard debate until nine o'clock in the evening, it was discovered that it was a grave set up that would have wanted to bypass the referendum on water in a very harsh way. After a really hard debate, when you fully compromised the law, you withdrew it at nine o'clock in the evening. If we didn't pay attention, we'd make a terrible mistake. That is why this law should in fact be re-examined. Secondly, I'm just going to read a letter that we all got. This is a letter from the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, a statement from the Chamber of Disclosures You can wave as much as you like, this is your custom with all experts. [[…]] The statement of the Chamber on exposed corruption risks when a proposal for a new Construction Law is made begins as follows: "Honored! Portal 24ur.com is 12. 11. 2021 in the article "The Minister of Vision Award for the votes of Mr Simonovic?" The Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia has repeatedly pointed out the non-transparent preparation of the law under the influence of strong interest groups." [[…]] In particular, their emphasis is important: »At the Chamber for Architecture and Space of Slovenia, we are appalled at the revealed facts, which show a high corruption risk and a lack of integrity in the creation of a proposal for a new Construction Law. If MEPs and MPs of the National Assembly adopt the proposed GZ-1, this law will be marked as a corrupt law all the time." In total, I agree with this statement. In a country that has leadership to develop democratic standards, of course, the law should go immediately to the freezer, not to the minus 8, probably to the minus 100 degrees; and wait for the competent authorities to examine, disclose everything that is involved; especially in a situation where it is definitely a fact that the relationship between coalitions and other Members is not clear that each vote counts. And there's too much talk that this marriage could go on at all. Once again, the law is extremely compromised for me. And I'd like you to feel the same way about everyone else who is present in this room right now. I'd just like to say one more thing. We have also, because we have observed the position of the Ombudsman as the opposition of the five parliamentary groups, put forward a proposal to give additional authority to the construction inspection. We have been warned that in the year when we do enough for the disabled, that disability and accessibility are discussed in the Construction Law and the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities Act, that there is a system-wide open thing, and that is that the Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities in some way allows a transitional period when old facilities need to be adjusted, or that we are looking at, say, shopping centres, health centres and so on; that is the vague competence of inspection, or that it can then watch. And we have prepared an amendment to make it more clear in the Construction Law. It was interesting that at that time everyone agreed, representatives of the government, even when we had a broader conversation, also representatives of the coalition, that this should be arranged. The only reason it was not voted in favour is because it is in another law and needs to be regulated there. If the National Assembly worked like that, and that would be great, I'd take the argument, but we're almost in every marriage interfering with another marriage. By the way, with this water plant, you also wanted to interfere with another law, the Water Act. I hope you'll accept this article. Of course, I hope this marriage falls. Sum, until it's investigated, it's simply too big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I would be very careful when I throw my words out — a compromised law, suspicion of corruption and so on. I think we have the appropriate institutions in this country to do so. And it's only right to do their job if anything is ever wrong. I just want to clarify that this law, in connection with the case at hand, which has been raised here, has no connection, as it is now possible to obtain a decision on the object of a longer existence, since the present law makes it possible to apply this possibility for all objects before 1998. The 2005 year, which was put forward as a proposal in this law, is based on the proposal of two institutions, of which you also named one, namely the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, which wanted to have even a moving deadline, and the municipalities that proposed the 2005 year for precisely justified reasons. Dear Member, I ask you to listen to one reason and an argument that led to why this year is. And there was no other reason for it, and at least the one that you have in mind that you're pushing us to point out is that this law is compromised and I don't know what. There's nothing compromised. The law follows what was the result of public treatment. And on the one hand, of course, we get the impression that we don't listen to public hearing and that we do something our own way. On the other hand, when we listen to the suggestions of public hearing, because the congregations and congregations know something about it, we are back on a difficult path. I don't actually look into every thing of some background and I don't know what conspiracy and corruption. Like not looking in that unfortunate article that we then withdrew because it didn't make sense, it didn't make sense because that article didn't have any purpose like you wanted to show in this House and when you want to show it today. The withdrawal of that amendment was only because it was unrelated, because it was not important and is not at all essential for this law and for further regulation. That article was merely procedural that the possibility of predominance in the case of water, which exists today and exists in the water directive, was somehow more effective. If you don't agree with it and see what conspiracy it is, fine. And we agreed that this amendment does not continue, even though this arrangement is in force today. Today, that provision is now in force because it was in the intervention law; and today this intervention law is still in force. And all we wanted was this solution, which proves that there is some possibility of more efficient handling of procedures, to bring them together as permanently. There's no other. It's not that we kind of wanted some kind of arsonist and you convinced us not to; and now we don't. No, just for the sake of peace, it was an honourable Member. Since this article so negatively marked this law, we did not want to do so, and we gave in and withdrew. And please, please, please don't look for any other reasons for instigating some evil intentions or corruption or anything in this law, where it's a professional law and it's actually a really hard job that we've put into this – my associates, not me – at the Ministry. I've been directing the work, not as I would say, technically. And today you're actually reading something because of an act that occurred to us at this ministry and my associates. It's not fair, it's not right. Please stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Magus first. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u274	Mr. Minister, I don't trust your government and that this side doesn't trust it, that's a fact. And I can tell you a million reasons, but it has nothing to do with what I'm saying right now. It's not our problem, what you're trying to show us to read too little. Your problem is because we read too much and find out what you don't want us to find out. That's your problem. And I am truly sorry, Mr. Minister, for not being present from two to ten evenings. And we would observe the dynamics of a discussion about a man who wasn't in the original marriage. From your ministry, you beat your own coalition that she had to defend something she didn't believe anyway. And you didn't take the time to take that burden on yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Paulich also wanted the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u276	Thank you very much. My predecessor just said something that I wanted to say. Perhaps only a replica of the Minister's performance, that was an irrelevant article, Article 66, that was already in force in intervention legislation. In fact, you wanted to include this article twice in legislation where it did not fit. First of all, you framed it into intervention legislation; as far as I know, it will soon cease to apply. Then you wanted to frame him for the Construction Law, even though it didn't fit there. In fact, I think it was three or four hours that we argued about this article. And I believe you've only withdrawn him because you've had bad experiences with each other's marriages. As for what is related to the facilities of a longer existence, it is only a shift from 1998 to 2005. As far as I've been able to take a quick look, there's quite a few other changes. I would ask you, Minister, that you claim to me that the only change concerning the facilities of a longer existence is the movement of the year that everything else remains the same as in today's legislation. I'd really like your explicit answer here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u278	Dear Member, I will not read the articles for you, this is your task. I can only tell you that this is substantively the only change, but also technical additions, which further explain the concepts of the existing 117th Article, are in the current 117th Article. But if you want to know how and what, you will see that I am right when you read the law that you are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u279	Mr Minister, it is not right to judge whether any of the Members have read the law, who is it and who is not. It is correct, however, from the Members, that the Minister is being asked and asked for answers or explanations, so you are actually sitting here today because you answer to Parliament and represent the law. And you are essentially obliged to answer Members' questions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government is responsible to the National Assembly. This intervention of yours was, to say the least, incorrect. I hope that the debate will be more in the right spirit below. Reploco wants Mr. Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Madam President. That's exactly what this government's operating mode is. If you don't have an answer, you attack. Dear Minister, I have read the whole law, I have been working on it for quite some time, and I have also told you that I have found that other substantive changes are also in this article. And since you mentioned that there is no problem with amending this article to just move the year, I explicitly asked you to confirm that this is the only substantive change. It is clear, however, that you have not read this article. Because if you did, you'd be able to answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u282	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting again to our Minister of Magic. Andre Visiak with his two associates! We have a proposal for a construction law ahead of us. I am firmly convinced that I was also in this national assembly when the previous law was passed to talk about the professional law. And, of course, my appeal, as President of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, that we do not make political out of this professional law. The Minister told us before in the opening presentation, of course, and we are also aware that the present law is three years old. This means that if anyone thinks that this law is changing because of the Minister of Vision, he is wrong. This law is being changed because there were many mistakes in the previous adoption of this law, but above all, the professional feelings of architects and engineers prevailed at the time and today. When this government was not yet in existence when the previous government was still in office, we have always listened to investors, entrepreneurs who employ 500, 1,000, 2,000 or more people who can sell products all over the world, but you can believe that they did not make up that this law is not all right. We spoke or were warned by mayors, who are several mayors. They also warned us, warned us that those who issued building permits for 10, 20 or 30 years, perhaps one who would soon retire, that there were many anomalies in the law that had been passed three years ago, and that it needed to be rectified. Of course, it is not today to play with emotions, whether anyone agrees with the Minister of the Environment of Mags. The visionaries don't agree. There is a lot of knowledge in this National Assembly in coalition and opposition, and we come from a variety of areas. There's a lot of knowledge in the ministries, not because there are current ministers there, there are people who have been employed for 5, 10, 15, 20 years, probably not all mags. Visak's hired. But what happened to all of them, of course, some of the parties were not yet in Parliament in the previous 2014–2018 term, that there were professional feelings and that architects, which I highly appreciate, might have taken two steps too far. And if you look at the magnetogram of our member of the group or my vote, I voted against the law at that time. An investor who has worked in the economy for 10, 20 years, employs 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 or a thousand people, will probably decide with his own experience who he will trust with the investment – or the best architect or best engineer of course with his experiences for two or three decades. I think that an engineer who has worked in his profession for two or three decades is an excellent expert, as well as an architect, but this is an investor's matter. When we first came to the hearing of this previous law, Mrs Irena Majcen was the Minister, who was once the mayor and also the one who once issued the building permits, I was confident that we would get the best construction law. Once again, not for the last time, because of the prevailing professional feelings, we were given a bad construction law that needed correction. I will never say that at the Ministry of Environment and Space they are all right, I will never say that Minister Vizjak is all right, but I am grateful that he and his professional colleagues have rolled up his sleeves and started to change this professional law. I don't know if he said today how many stakeholders have sat with, how many times have they coordinated this law, which is extremely important, of course, it brings it to the National Assembly. And I'm not going to argue that we've got the best marriage today, that we have the best, that there might be something else to fix, but, colleagues and colleagues, this law that corrects the shortcomings of the previous law, this law, which corrects the mistakes of the previous law, this law, which touches on the very deep legal security of investors, this law, which shortens the procedures that we've been talking about for many years, could mention much more. In short, I would like what we read or listen to in the media. Of course, they write most today that may not be at every step in the front, but it is right to listen and work for those who are investors in the Republic of Slovenia, from the family who will build their own house to the smaller entrepreneur who will build smaller production halls, as well as those who will build large buildings. In particular, I have a country in mind when it builds. I have in mind the local community, which have repeatedly, at every step, even this year or last year, when the government visits Slovenian municipalities, regions, they have constantly pointed out these issues – those that have accompanied the conclusions of these government visits – especially in this segment of the Minister of Vision, that something needs to be changed in this segment. When we had this law twice on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we had an expert discussion there, and none of the 12 members and members of this Committee, which I appreciate, had any concerns that there was no need for change in this law. In short, today we have a quality law on the table, to which, once again, we have been reminded by those who issue building permits. We have been warned by citizens and citizens, mayors of Slovenian municipalities, entrepreneurs, in short, all those who have taken rather thick maps to administrative units and have been often unsuccessful. I know a lot of administrative units, especially those who issue building permits to work hard and realize that the time is money to make a big code when the investor is stalling. But in the previous marriage, it was not those who betrayed it, but the law that we are changing today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we respect the efforts of the Ministry and, of course, all those who have come to this ministry with the coming of this Minister, all those who have been at the Ministry for years. In short, I have to say in this law, it is right to say what is wrong in this national assembly, and I also call on you to be able to praise no matter who likes it, but to be able to praise what is good for our citizens and citizens. That's why we were elected to this National Assembly. Citizens and citizens do not follow us because we have such discussions or fun, but they are accompanying us to answer their questions so that they will be easier in our Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening a new list. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. We've got six interviewees reported. The first one gets the word mag. Andrei Reich. After him, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u284	Thank you very much and very much! Dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! Indeed, the Construction Law is a complex matter and it also basically constitutes an upgrade to the existing law, i.e. that which was adopted in 2018. We're talking a lot about reducing procedures. Indeed, the procedure for obtaining a building permit has been shortened. The scope of the necessary documentation for an administrative decision has been reduced since 2018 and this second part of the documentation to be made has been transferred to the implementation phase. In general, I say that the construction process itself is a demanding, complex process where no process can actually be skipped and all matters must be completed. If one case is not completed in the previous phase, it must be completed in later. I think it's very good in the law to clearly ensure the equality of all professions. I must make this clear as a construction engineer, because we have witnessed attempts by a particular chamber to subordinate ourselves to other professions, and even misleadingly stated that such an agreement is in line with other professions. And now I have said very politely – misleadingly. This claim is incorrect. This is very important to me that no profession is privileged, but that equality of professions is ensured. And this letter, which was read, also shows that, in fact, this chamber she sent cannot somehow get over it, or she does not want to get over the fact that she is no longer privileged. This needs to be made clear. As far as other procedures are concerned, I, of course, want to see eBuilding finally happen. I also realize that this can't be done from today to tomorrow. And if we want to speed up these spatial placement procedures, then we should have significantly more defined spatial acts at local level and should have municipalities, local communities more broadly define all procedures and all things related to construction. If we had adopted a law that a building plot that is not pre-communally constructed cannot be constructed so that it can only be built on plots where all connections are already present, where all sidewalks are built, where all roads are built, where all distances from borders are already determined, where a pre-determined typology of the house, i.e. its dimensions, or facilities, could then all of these procedures be substantially faster. However, we must be aware that the reality in Slovenia is different, so it is not as someone often says that in Austria you can get a building permit based on three, four sheets and start building. It is clear, however, that if certain procedures are not carried out, they must be carried out later. That's basically one general comment. In the grave, marriage is not bad, so these improvements have been made. I am also pleased that you have made certain explanations for these events that have taken place in public. We have made certain comments, and some have also been answered in the debate itself. Of course, in a sense, when we talk about all these matters when we talk about these inspections, the law has one possibility of improvement. I would also like to give a word, a debate to my fellow Members, so that this debate may relive a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u286	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! This new law, which we will confirm, is an upgrade to the old law. So it's an upgrade to the old marriage. Certain changes were urgently needed. Certain changes were urgently needed and these changes will also come in favour and well of investors, young families, businesses, economies, in short. And when I'm here hearing these discussions about the fact that the law was written for one of the Members, that it was written, I don't know who, I mean, what are you doing?Oh, my God! First, re-create an affair on POP TV and immediately bring it to the parliamentary bench. A living disaster from disaster. And then you shove it in here. Embarrassing to the end. And if the Social Democrats had already drawn up the law as needed when you were dealing with it in 2017 and 2018, then now these changes should not have to be done. Thus certain things were actually done in that law by God’s mercy. And what did the companies that wanted to build do? Even so, land-steel problems, collected to the end, are all the way down to the end of the line. Officials are just hand-in-handing papers from the office to the office. And what did they have to do? A lot of people had to make a profit or some kind of production hall black so that they could continue to work with the production to keep people busy, so that these people would make these craftsmen and people pay taxes so that you could sit in here. Yeah. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's right, Professor. These people have to work bloodyly and these craftsmen, entrepreneurs have to work bloodyly so you can come here. [[advertising from the hall]] And I would like to say again, even the last time you discussed yourself at the 66th and so forth, you've begun to start a normal populism, just like you did in the Water Act, that's what you did and painted people. And you know exactly where those weak spots are, where you can abuse nature, the environment, especially water, and paint people to start thinking that you're the one who's going to tell you how right it is. And go see, respected and respected, who have done as much legislation as we have built rivers, shores, lakes, go see how you have – with your legislation that has been in force before. Go take a look at this. Just go check it out. Just go down the river and see what it looks like, and by the watercourses, by the lakes, and you'll see. When the new legislation no longer allowed it, you threw it away. Go check it out. And I will make all these cases, those from before and those that will now continue to do as they have done so far, and I will record them to you here; and you will tell whether you hold them or not. The new construction law is more than good, well-prepared. And even when you were fighting architects and construction engineers among yourselves, what you were doing here in Parliament, it was a disaster. And people are actually all laughing at you. Young people, craftsmen and all investors are grateful for the new marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal is made by Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u288	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I would just like to ask or remind you to warn your colleague that we are not at the inn, and that, please, stop saying that the Members here are afnaming because I am not afnamising in the National Assembly. If it's you, it's your problem. And please stop talking about making some broadcasts on POP TV. As far as I am concerned, Mr Doblekar, if you are not here to be and listen to what the opposition has to say to you who are taking this country to dictatorship, then return your wages and step down. Very simple. Because what you've been doing in this national council lately goes beyond all limits of good will and goes beyond all limits of permissive, and especially given what ratings this government is showing, I believe you're all a little nervous, but it will be slow. But if you're not, just leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I have no jurisdiction under the Rules of Procedure to interfere with the Word Treasure of Members. If Mr Doblekar discussed in such a way that, in my opinion, he was not too insulting, his assessment is as he expressed it in the debate, I will not interfere substantively with the debates of Members. We continue the debate. Mag. Dusan Verbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u290	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! My debate will be more focused on, let's say, content, and this is the Construction Law and there will be some kind of political debate with something, let's say, affection for the content itself, in my own opinion. To begin with, when there has been a lot of unusual talk in this debate, I will start with the next one. As it has been said, the law before us is excellent, but the key question is how an excellent law can be implemented in practice. And who in practice implements the content of the Construction Law? I don't think there's anything out there in this debate. But before I go any further, I will also be a little critical that the previous law, which was adopted in 2016 and entered into force in 2017, was not so bad. I agree, however, that there have been many shortcomings, especially at the time of adoption, when the implementation itself has started to see that there have been many abuses, shortcomings on the part of both those in charge of issuing building permits and, on the other hand, of investors themselves. And here, at this point, I'm going to immediately put one stain on why so many times have been talked about the longevity of procedures. It is not always the fault of the law and it is not always the fault of the officials involved in the construction permit process. Many times, and in most cases, especially those reverberating, even in the public, there have been major complications in the timely issuance of various consents, as we know – water consents, monuments and the like. And it's often forgotten. Not to talk about the roles of investors themselves, which were simply not a perfect role; and this is often ignored. And again. What a good law, in this case the Construction Law, will prove to be in its implementation, in 58 administrative units after Slovenia and the Ministry of the Environment, of which we know to issue building permits for sites of state importance. And with interest, of course, we will monitor it. As far as I am concerned personally and will join the debate of the first debater today, I must admit myself, I am very critical in one part of the connection to this law; and this is a municipal contribution. I was myself in the past period when we were this construction law, which is now somehow marked as being weak, grateful to a coalition partner who helped us to ensure that the municipal contribution was paid before the construction permit was issued. I believe that the founders of this law, including the well-intentioned fact that somehow this municipal contribution is not possible any abuse. And then in this explanation, the respected minister also stated that there are so many guards that it's almost impossible not to pay, I'm just skeptical. For if a municipal contribution is not paid before the building permit is issued, then any investor is aware that certain funds simply have to be allocated to the congregation. Why am I stressing this? This is why, in urban municipalities, if we are realistic, we are aware that there are already many abuses, although the current provision specifies and obliges the payment of the municipal contribution, but we are aware and aware that in a number of cases administrative units also issue a building permit before the payment of the municipal contribution. But that's another story. The municipalities have the opportunity to agree with the investor on a form of agreement or multiple deferral of payment, and somehow with such a statement then to the administrative authority to issue a building permit. In some cases, however, it turns out that those who have somehow obtained a building permit simply abuse the congregation in one way or another. I speak more for the city councils, but I know more about them. I believe that there is no problem in small municipalities in principle. In the city’s municipalities, and again, I am also quite aware that the city’s congregations, the Association of Municipal Congregations, have somehow called for the municipal contribution to be maintained in the form it is, it is said, prior to the issuance of the building permit. I therefore very much agree with the debaters who have made this a special word. As far as the law itself is concerned, let us be clear, the fact is that since the construction legislation has always been valid, and also in this case, which we have before us, that we have two different interests, namely the interest of the association of architects and, on the other hand, of the association of engineers and technicians. And the fact is that in the process of so-called construction, or, say, design, these two interests are extremely opposed and want to play a dominant role. I would like to see that both chambers are somehow not some kind of opponent, but are really working in the interest of investors, users and also in the final stage of officials who are involved in the construction permit process. Once again, I would like to point out that many of the jobs are somewhat unfair to officials who work in these processes, because they have some limitations on processes, if investors or investors are also being abused in some way, especially in the context of deceiving their roles, even though they are aware and well-known by the OPPN or the OPPN and all of these elements necessary for the issuance of the building permit itself. With this law ahead of us, I have my heart's hopes, and I would somehow like to refer to a fellow Member who said it was an upgrade to the existing one. I agree. I am for any upgrade that goes in the direction of improvement, especially in the context that it goes against investors. But unfortunately, there are also individuals on the investor's side, legal or physical, who also want to abuse a lot of things in these procedures. And here are the problems and problems that then we get to these so-called statistics, that one process of building permits on average in Slovenia is 150 to 200 days, anything. But let's be honest again, it also depends on what individual roles are on individual administrative units. It is said that it is not so uniform that now only with some better draft, proposal or law will everything improve in general. I have to admit, at certain points, I'm a little skeptical. And I'll come back again as far as this community service is concerned. I must admit that I am somewhat disappointed here that, in this 54th article, which is a condition for the issue of a building permit, it is simply not mentioned, although, the Minister-designate, you have mentioned the connection to another law, but interestingly, that in this 54th article the payment for degradation and usurpation is called the legalisation of black buildings. And I don't understand why it's not very clear and explicit here either for this so-called municipal contribution, which is of paramount importance to the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Vice President. There's been quite a bit of blood here, even in this consideration of the Construction Law Proposal, which is not surprising, because every time we get some set-ups. And I agree with my fellow Jew that this law is already being compromised and potentially corrupt; and it is clear that there are other Indians who will find out. It is good that we have achieved, however, that public competitions do not end non-governmental organisations and that the public retains approximately the same opportunities to participate in the procedures for issuing building permits. And the Minister of the Environment himself will no longer have the opportunity to issue a building permit. I would also like to point out that, in our view, the serious problem is that the Minister has so allegedly dissolved his full legal service in the Ministry of Environment and Space. These people have already been preparing this construction law and have been trained, the team has been specialized in drafting legislation, but now through public procurement for our common taxation money, as colleague Doblekar likes to say, but apparently after the stupid tax affair you have nothing to do with it, order and outsource these laws. And why do I say he's compromised and potentially corrupt? Because you have signed a treaty with Domna Neffat, who is also a lawyer of a Member who wants to legalise the construction; and also that Member guarantees that one vote that allows this coalition to rule and remain. We read a lot, you know, Minister, and we also have a lot of documents. You said what our job was before. We know damn well what our job is, and we do it with great faith. In Article 142, NGOs and all other legal, natural persons shall be prevented from complaining of a building permit and from participating in legal proceedings in the event of a building permit with extremely high fees. So far, the appeal fee has amounted to 18.10 euros and this is a general fee under heading 2 of the Administrative Fees Act. The increase under this construction law is a 55-fold increase, without explaining the reasons for doing so, which is contrary to your promises, Minister, to quote you. In the first reading, you said: "Let me also underline in the introduction that we may avoid discussions in the future, that we have reached an agreement with non-governmental organisations on foreign participation in these construction procedures, in particular in the issue of an integrated building permit, and that we will also propose more broadly to the National Assembly, as this text does not recognise to NGOs the status of party participation in the integrated building permit procedures. The government will support the amendments in the sense that they are given this status." So we expect you to stick to what you said, yes, and that, yes, of course, you will also support the opposition's amendments. With regard to article 66, which you said wasn't relevant at all. You say that article 66 of this construction law was not essential at all, and I say that it was a plant that we received about half an hour after the beginning of this meeting. If it wasn't important, then explain to me why we've been here for seven hours, the meeting started at 2 p.m., and by 2 p.m., we were only talking about this 66th article. Why? Then we passed the Construction Law and the Law on the Planning of Space, or you voted all those amendments in one hour. I will again touch on these public contracts and outsourcings, because due to covida-19 your employees have to work from home, and some have received the abolition of their jobs. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u293	Colleague Tomic, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u294	Mr President Jože Tanko, we have listened here before, when you were not here, to say a Member of the Doblekar who spoke all sorts, including that we are running.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u295	If you're so polite, just let me say what I mean, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u296	Please do not interfere with my debate, because this is a debate on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u297	I'm not getting involved in your debate, just to warn you. The President shall have the right under the Rules of Procedure to intervene and intervene.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u298	You took half a minute from me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u299	We'll pass it to you. Don't worry if you have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u300	Look, we're sitting right here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u301	Just a moment, please, so we don't get complicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u302	We're sitting here with a minister who should step down if he had any faces, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u303	We are talking here about Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5, not Article 60. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u304	Not to tell us what our job is. [[…]] Aren't you embarrassed, chairman? I'm talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u305	My colleague, I'll tell you again. Today we have a debate, and earlier you have been read to go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. We are currently discussing Article 5 which discusses construction with a building permit and the application of the start of construction. And it is submitted to this amendment, for the addition of one paragraph. I suggest you stick to the content of what's being put in and what's on the agenda right now. Article 60 is not an amendment. It makes no sense, the general discussion was and was held at the 25th meeting. Now you're talking about everything. I also suggest in advance that you focus on what is under discussion, this is the right article and the amendment tabled. We're talking about the details of how we're correcting the text of the law. I interrupted the debate, Violeta Tomić. You have the floor and you can proceed. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get procedural when she's finished with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u306	Mr President, you took away from me a minute of my brief calm debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u307	We'll extend your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u308	In the meantime, you've interrupted the hour, but it's unworthy of my judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u309	We'll extend your time, just stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u310	Can I speak without you talking to me in parallel? That's what kids do when they act bad, and then they force you to talk more loudly, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u311	My colleague, I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u312	And it turns out you're terrible. [[…]] It is said that this law also violates the provisions concerning the assessment of the conformity of proposed works with spatial acts. The law lifted the consensus and introduced opinions instead of them, which are normally the basis for the issue of a building permit for the competent administrative authority for construction matters. In short, we always have a broader debate at the beginning of the amendment interpretation, so it has always been so far, and so all Members of Parliament have been discussing this point this evening. The main problem we faced was who would run the projects for the buildings. Architects are supposed to run projects for buildings and construction engineers for line infrastructures such as roads, viaducts, tunnels and so on. However, electrical engineers run projects to build electrical infrastructure, such as power lines. Now this will be deregulation and the project can be run by anyone, of course, mainly a construction engineer – the owner of the company. Under the pretext of equality of professions, the directors of some major design companies, well connected with the governing policy, will be able to write themselves as project managers. The problem is also an article that discusses the dominance of other benefits over the benefits of environmental protection [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u313	Colleague, Article 5 is open and amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u314	In short, many controversial projects could not be implemented because the interest of protection [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u315	My colleague, I will read once again for the debate on the magnetogram ahead of what Article 5 stipulates. Article 5 – Construction by building permit and application of the start of construction. First paragraph. A legal building permit and an application for the start of construction are a condition for the new construction, reconstruction and alteration of the purpose of a demanding, less demanding and non-requisitionable facility and for the removal of a demanding or less demanding facility which touches or is less than a metre away from a foreign neighbouring property. Second paragraph. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the start of the construction does not need to be declared for the purpose of changing the object’s destination. It's paragraph three. Notwithstanding the first paragraph of this Article, the reconstruction necessary to reduce or eliminate the consequences of natural and other accidents and to establish the previous state of the facility shall not change the position, gabarit, destination and exterior of the facility and shall begin within three months at the latest after the natural or other accident, only on the basis of the declaration of the start of the construction. Paragraph four. Notwithstanding the first paragraph of this Article, the investor may, on his own responsibility, declare the start of the construction of the building and start construction after the completion of the building permit, if it is an environmental object or an object which does not require an assessment of the acceptability of the regulations governing the conservation of nature. Paragraph five. Notwithstanding the first paragraph of this Article, a building permit is not required for the execution of the said inspection measure and the registration of the start of the construction. And the amendment to this article, which was tabled by LMŠ, SD, Levica, is also your parliamentary group, Sab and unrelated, but is as follows. At the end of the first paragraph of Article 5, a new sentence is added which reads: “If the application for the start of the construction does not contain any of the required data or documentation referred to in Article 76 of this Law, it shall be deemed as if the application for the start of the construction was not made.” And this is the subject of the debate of Members at this time. When we put the next article into the debate, we will talk about the following articles and the next detail. Here, you have the floor, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Jože Tanko. I see you have a terrible need to discuss this. Why don't you take a seat over there and check in? You interrupt me gravely by every word, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u317	My colleague, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u318	so that I give up the debate, [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u319	Second warning. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u320	when you are presiding over this national council, because you are acting totally inappropriate, primitive, offensive and rude. You get involved in the debates of Members, which is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u321	My colleague, you don't have a word anymore. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u322	Thank you for your word, chairman. Each chairman has his own style of presidency. This does not only apply to the Slovenian Parliament, it applies to all parliaments. You probably didn't follow this debate before you came to the hall. The chairman of the committee and a member of your party asked that a broad debate be allowed. And that's what everyone's been talking about, especially the members of the party you come from. I'm not Violet Tomić's lawyer, but in a specific case, you're doing the wrong thing. Everyone in front of her went wide, even too wide. Mr Doblekar spoke about SD, although this was not from the SD quota at the time. That's why I think we should have the same vat. This is my procedural proposal, the same vats on this. If the debate began by allowing a certain width, it should be allowed to the end. I'll discuss the building code myself, not everything around. And I'll try to stick to the articles that have been amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u323	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I've been following the debate. With regard to the rules of procedure and the instructions read, the debate does not take place as it is businessly determined, as you probably know more than well yourself, you know more than well. And you had a general debate on the committee. There could be no representation of the views of the groups. And your colleague read it to you. What she let her do is her problem. I will follow what is written in the instructions and also in the rules of procedure. We continue the debate. Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. Just one note before I return to the amendment. In particular, you were members of the coalition, or especially the SDS, saying that it was an expert law. Every marriage in the 21st century is supposed to be professional, but, of course, every marriage is also political, we are politicians. I have been officially engaged in space policies since 1 November 1994. That's when I got a job. This morning I taught architecture students in Maribor. Political and professional in the 21st century is not exclusive, it must be complementary. And so politicians should also understand interests or, as Bojan said, feelings on one side of the engineering profession, on the other. Of course, they want to impose their legitimate interests on some legislation, but we need to be smart enough to understand them and to go beyond the interests of one and the other, because they are necessary and one and the other, as well as landscape architects, architects, leaders and others. If I touch only Article 5, presidents, in fact, I thank you for making it easier for me to work, because you have read everything. It's just that when an application is made, everything that has to be regulated is in there. If it is not, as we have written down correctly, it is considered as though the application for the start of the construction was not given. And even as colleague Andrej said very well, we have these procedures, this is essentially a process of civilisation, this is spatial legislation, this is the heart of democracy. With us, we think too often of democracy in terms of – what do you think now? And this is exactly the kind of material that we need to learn to interact with each other, not like elephants walking around our ears, which is what happens too often in the National Assembly; and therefore all procedures need to be carried out. The fact that we're going to move them a little bit to the left, to the right, I'm afraid we're going to get some future presidents, the vice-presidents of the National Assembly -- not on you, Jože -- who are going to be black builders. This is probably not the aim of this legislation, so we are proposing this amendment. I'll check in with the others, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, I will discuss Article 5 which speaks of the application of the start-up of construction, and this is also linked to the payment of the municipal contribution. And it is here that I think, Mr Minister, that regardless of all the professional competences of the Ministry of Environment and Space, some things remain inconclusive. I talked to people in administrative units, talked to people in the congregations, and I have to say that no one could explain exactly how this payment of the municipal contribution or what will happen if someone doesn't pay it and starts building it. That we have heard of the great expertise of people at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which I have no doubt, I have no doubt. It is interesting to me, however, why another law had to be drawn up when writing this law; and I am also interested, and even today the speech was about whether the Service for the Environment and Space System had prepared this law or whether it had really been decommissioned in the middle of this writing. Minister, you said the law wasn't compromised. But now that information such as this law appears in the public eye, and doubts some corrupt writing of this law, it is already clear from the ground that it is compromised. You, Mr. Minister, did not react when these things came to the public. You didn't react immediately. It is only today that we have been able to read, that is, on the very day of the consideration of this law, that the Ministry is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u327	Comrade Bear, please, if you will focus on the amendment to this article, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u328	Mr President, I'll be right back to Article 5, but this is connected. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u329	It's not connected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u330	Article 5 also, because I am talking about things being inconsistent, although they have been prepared by both the Ministry of Environment and Space and the hired law firm, we have not yet reached a satisfactory result. [[…]] I stress once again, not us Members here, the municipalities, administrative units, investors, but, of course, those who have to pay the municipal contribution and those who are entitled to it. And this is where there are differences, so I'm reminding you of this professional work, Mr Vice President, and of the fact that this is the kind of team that wrote this law, even with hired people from the outside. Therefore, Minister, I now ask you again why the 91st article, which deals with inspection measures relating to the application of the commencement of construction and the fulfilment of essential requirements, states that the construction for which the registration of the start of construction is prescribed shall be carried out without registration, or that the application does not contain the data and documentation referred to in Article 76 of this Act, except for the certificate referred to in the fourth indent of Article 76(1). This fourth indent, however, is clear — the confirmation of the municipality’s paid municipal contribution, provided that it so provides for the law governing the premises. We can now connect the Construction Law and the Law on the Planning of Space, and we watch one marriage watch another marriage. But what happens if the municipal contribution at the start of the construction is not paid? Simply, who and how this investor, who will start building and does not pay the municipal contribution, will force him to pay it. That's what I'm interested in. Because if it is not paid, citizens already have an example, for example, since even the minister does not pay the municipal contribution, he begins to build. So, if the minister can, and we can do it, I'll do it on purpose. But I ask you again, because, as I said, in administrative units and in municipalities, they cannot answer that question. Therefore, we have also proposed an additional guardian with this amendment to Article 5. Very well-intentioned and based on what we could hear, if I say so myself, on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u331	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u332	Dear Members, there will be no misunderstanding. A public contribution has to be paid and the obligation to pay it never, as I would say, falls short in the sense that it is no longer necessary. Even if someone starts to build and does not pay the municipal contribution, he has to pay it, the congregation is based on the ZUREP, because of course the contribution, the income of the congregation, is the responsibility of overseeing it through its inspection services. And all those who make it possible to connect the facility to municipal infrastructure without a paid municipal contribution are subject to sanctions in accordance with the Space Regulation Act (ZUREP), and therefore, honourable Members, both laws must be read in full. As far as the municipal contribution is concerned, the main regulation or regulation under the ZUREP is. And once again, if someone starts building, someone can also start building on black without a building permit, so that even without this security guard, the utility contribution has to be paid, there is no black construction, but the utility contribution has to be paid even if it's black construction because it's connected to the utility, of course, at the time of legalization. I just want to point out that this is taken care of and is not possible, except of course in non-compliance with the legislation, which we have control of, and this case is controlled through a municipal inspection, in short, no hole, no splinter where someone can legally avoid this payment. It's not. If you find her, please tell me, we've established a law that there's no snorkeling, and that's why the municipal contribution has to be paid before it starts to build. Moreover, the municipal contribution must be paid before the building permit is obtained before the building permit is established. After eBuilding, the portal of these eBuildings will make it impossible to actually issue an application for construction without paying a municipal contribution, because you will not know what it is like when you type something into the app, if you don't unlock something, you type it. [[…]] And that's how it's supposed to be. Let me reassure you, honourable Member, it will not be possible to legally connect the facility to the municipal infrastructure without a paid municipal contribution; it will not be possible to build without a paid municipal contribution. We follow this through the law, and I believe we did it. Maybe just one more thing about these reorganisations at the Ministry. I believe, and you, as the former Minister of Public Administration, can tell me that the organisation at the Ministry is a matter of leadership and of those who run the Ministry in order to organise the work effectively. Prior to my arrival, the Ministry's work was organised so that we had a Directorate for Construction, Space and Housing, a Department, and a Department for Legal Affairs related to construction was actually at the level of the Ministry, at some level outside this Directorate. This seemed irrational, inopportune to the drafting of legislation, because it is right that systems that write laws or cooperate in law also cooperate with those that implement and issue building permits at the Directorate for Construction, Space and Housing. That's why we reorganised it, but people are the same, and they're all the same, except for those who retired to help prepare this law, of course. This company you are mentioning has received a payment for its work, as I received the data, of about €6,000. Then you know how much she could have been involved in the drafting of this law and the Law on Space Management. We have prepared this law at the Ministry with no influence whatsoever.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? You have a replica. Good. Replica, Edward Paulich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Chairman. In my debate, I highlighted a number of facts that I do not think the Minister understood. It must be said that the Minister presented the construction law to all the parliamentary groups, including ours, very correctly before the very examination of this law. And at this presentation, the Minister, you said that the law was in line with both municipalities and other stakeholders, and you claimed that the municipal contribution would have to be paid when the building was declared. We believed you at the time, but after we went to look in detail at the bill, it turned out not to be so. And according to the law written today, the municipal contribution will have to be paid, but only when they file applications for a useful permit. This law explicitly states that the condition for issuing a user authorisation is a public contribution. However, the fact is that if the investor does not give a municipal contribution certificate when the building is notified, the administrative unit has no leverage to invite it to supplement it and the inspector does not have any authority to suspend such a construction in accordance with your proposal. Therefore, once again, I propose that you re-examine the provisions of this law, and I propose that you accept our amendment, which removes this anomaly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Replica, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u336	Minister, I'd like to know how they could have cooperated with the shareholders in this law firm. And, of course, it's a complete non-reality that you're saying, you didn't pay them 6,000 euros, but 22 thousand 204 euros of taxpayer money. Don't fool the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u337	Thank you very much. First of all, I would warn you that we are members of the 5th Article and amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Everything that needed to be cleared could have been previously cleared on the parent’s working body. The meeting was held, the amendments could be tabled, asked questions, the general debate was held, so there is no position and so on. And I propose once again that there will be no complications to focus on the content of the detail with which the text of Article 5 is to be corrected. Now I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment tabled. Vojko Starović. Is there another candidate? It's not. Vojko Starović, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u338	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice round of greetings to the colleagues and colleagues present! We have also signed this amendment to Article 5 and I think it is in place because it eliminates an anomaly that will not work properly in practice. We have repeatedly and continuously made some proposals that have been consistently rejected and treated as malicious. I do not think that Parliament is a place where we are barking at each other, we have been humiliating ourselves, and the EPP has been constantly investing, as we have heard many times today; but I think that Parliament is a place of dialogue to clear things up. I have invested a lot in my life as a director and so on, even as a private, and I know that there are problems in these matters. I believe that this Article 5 removes one doubt as to the payment of the municipal contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 5? No one else. Then we'll move on. Before we proceed, colleague Starović, you are right, Parliament is a place of dialogue, but this dialogue is procedurally divided into three stages, it is referred to as a preliminary hearing, first reading, second reading, third reading. And everyone has their own rules. It's written that way, that's how our predecessors accepted it, and we're doing it. If anything has to be changed, we'll change. We're moving on. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want a word? Anyone else want a word besides Dr. Franz Duck? No one else. Here you go, Dr. Keating. Franz Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. It is very rare that we deal with the amendment of a law so that you do not run into any other law. Here we're dealing with a twin. However, in this article, the ZUreP refers to the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities. It seems to me that the law was passed ten years ago, and this law requires the abolition of built and technical barriers to facilities in public or — I would even add — even half the public use, sociologically. And this deadline expires at the end of December 2025. That'll be relatively soon. We know how many obstacles we have in this area, it's people with a certain handicap who are generally blocked by mobility. And in this article, literally, the inspection of construction inspectors requires that they also cover this. Some area that's not something you need a building permit for, but it's gonna have to be arranged. In fact, it is also some kind of lactose paper, how – and I will say – we are a sensitive society to various forms of handicap, after all, because we are all handicapped in one way or another. In short, this is a matter of Article 10, signed by 43 Members and Members of Parliament, in essence, I hope to say that the democratic opposition, including in cooperation with the disability organisations and in cooperation with the Ombudsman. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it? Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u342	Our amendment to Article 10 is a kind of alignment with the provisions of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and eliminates discrimination, so, as my colleague Trček said earlier, we suggest that construction inspectors should also be able to monitor compliance with the requirements for the removal and construction of technical barriers. In view of the constructions that will continue to take place under this law and build, it must always be borne in mind that a person who is motionless can come into a room without distraction, for this is a requirement that is necessary and civilisational. I don't think there's any reason to oppose such an amendment in the coalition, because people with disabilities are all colors, all sorts. And I think we need to be sensitive to these weakest members of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u343	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We are also sensitive to these vulnerable groups, and at the Ministry of Environment and Space we estimate that this amendment is not necessary because we are already doing so. The building inspection has already been competent and responds to applications for several years and has also carried out targeted actions to control buildings from the point of view of removing construction barriers on public buildings. Such an action was also carried out in January and February this year when it inspected 67 facilities, resulting from an inspection report on targeted actions. The building inspection is already under way and is competent and does not require an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u346	Apparently, the minister didn't listen to me very well. By 2025, according to the law I mentioned, this should be regulated. We do not need action, we need it to be carried out on a permanent basis, and every law requires a clearer dictatorship. I don't see where this problem would be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this at Article 10? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Rule 142 and to the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u348	Thank you. This article was already explained by a colleague of Violet's, and you basically interrupted it. NGOs are an integral part of the process of construction and space events in a society, if I may say so. They also have a lot of knowledge, which sometimes even certain departments do not have to do so, and not because they would now be unfair to bureaucrats, they often don't even have the time to further educate themselves, and they don't have the boss's affections if I'm honest. The problem we are facing here is that without harmonising the Administrative Fees Act, complaints charges are raised from 11 to 55 times. I could have dragged the Aarhus Convention out here and so forth, but this story shows some relationship between this government – some of your marshals, Twita, as someone calls it, could have dragged him out — to civil society, which is an integral part of politics, and I hope to say, even in a narrower, not just in a broader sense, as Professor Bibič taught me, unfortunately already deceased. It is simply with this amendment that we really want to take the story somewhere, how it is organised in some normal societies. Probably, which is understandable to everyone, if there was a bucket in our morning bar tomorrow, and let's give some middle value, 33 times higher, we'd all be going crazy no matter what game we come from. And this marriage somehow wants to charge an elevated tax to NGOs this time, but at the same time, you'll be acting like you're being nice to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u350	Let me continue where I was interrupted before. I drew the Minister's attention to his first-reading promises when he said that you had reached an agreement with NGOs. And here I call on you to allow all NGOs, as well as all other legal and natural persons, to complain about the building permit and to participate more easily in the proceedings in the administrative dispute. For, as I have already said, so far the fee for the complaint has amounted to 18.10 euros, and the increase under this law would be a 55-fold increase without any explanation of such action. The only thing we can understand from this is that the law tries to prevent NGOs and civil society from having any impact on the decision when you decide to build somewhere. Let me also remind you of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case which has its own number; to take account of the objective of the Aarhus Convention, which Franjo has already mentioned, it is necessary to give the public concerned wide access to legal protection in environmental matters. And this construction law is created by the Ministry of Environment and Space, which must primarily take care of the environment. And, of course, here, in cooperation with all civil society organisations that care about the environment, you can work, because it is very important not to make it impossible for various NGOs to look into the procedures for obtaining building permits, such as ecologically controversial and disruptive facilities such as biogas, remotes, roads and many other disruptive objects. The imposition of a tax so high that their payment for the majority of the population, including those organisations operating on a non-profit basis, also prevents the exercise of the right to use the remedies referred to in Article 25 of the Constitution. That is why, of course, we believe that this amendment is necessary, as it also removes a constitutionally controversial provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u351	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u352	I'm behind what I said. And it is also true that we have aligned ourselves with NGOs to regulate the status of a foreign participant in the Construction Law, as we have regulated in the Environmental Protection Act. There we reached an agreement and the agreement was also to make the same arrangements in the Construction Law in the framework of integrated procedures, where there is a joint construction and environmental impact assessment by issuing an environmental agreement in one process. Since this is also an environmental process in the framework of the construction process, we have agreed that the same principles will apply to NGOs there and here. And we have also done so because the coalition has proposed a law, the government has given its consent and we have done so, we have fully fulfilled it. That's the first thing I want to say. The second thing I want to say is, we want to, by changing taxes in some way, prevent the abuse of the Institute of Complaints. However, if the complaint is justified and the action is received, the applicant, including a non-governmental organisation, shall be reimbursed and received back and therefore shall not be liable to appeal if, of course, their intervention has been successful, no matter how much the amount is. And the third thing I want to say, and it is very important, is that of all these dozens and dozens of NGOs so far, only 5 NGOs have been involved in integrated building permit procedures. I can list them for you, five of them, in seven procedures. In a few dozen completed procedures and those under way, NGOs are not in at all. I want to tell you that you're working out of an elephant fly. These NGOs that want to, are inside, have secure access, and in fact this very little of Slovenia benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u354	My cynical answer would be, and then you set it too low. Then we should give it to 550 times, but I don't work out of an elephant fly. We know who the people who are guessing are, but there are also many of them, especially those who are undergraduate, who live on some of the minorities in these organizations, and who want to make a creative contribution, after all, to the process of civilisation and raising the spatial culture in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's kind of how you step on your neck if I put it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u356	Of course we don't work out of an elephant fly. The elephant's already here. The problem is not small, is large, NGOs work voluntarily, work with their own contributions, with donations. And of course, if you set up a taxi that has a clear deterrent effect in advance so that you don't even go through any complaints, then it's a big problem and, I'll say, it's an elephant. That is why we have also proposed this amendment so that taxes do not have a dissuasive effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-17-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, Thursday, 18 November, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Now I propose that because it is only 10 minutes of time and it is the turn of the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation and a number of amendments have also been tabled, if we start the law tomorrow, so that we do not take advantage of these 10 minutes and then stop. I think it would make sense to process it in a package. Would it be all right if tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., a meeting started? Do you agree? Minister, do you agree? Good. Thank you very much. Then I interrupt the 27th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, November 18th, at 9 p.m. I wish everyone a good night and a happy journey home!
