ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 87th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by Members and Members of Parliament: Franc Jurša, Nick Prebil from 10.30 a.m. to 2.00 p.m., Violeta Tomić, Željko Cigler, Samo Bevk from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. I've invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 87th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 12 November 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedural proposal, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u2	Dear President, we in the opposition have serious concerns about the correctness of the bill on long-term care for this meeting. The way this law was adopted on Saturday represents the reusurpation of the work and role of this council of legislative bodies by the coalition. We have received a request from the coalition for a law that could normally be dealt with at the December regular session to convene an extraordinary meeting, despite the fact that they knew how very busy the terms had barely been found on Saturday, and then instead of correcting the law, it was also found by the professional public, that it was completely incomplete and inconceivable and impossible to use, they tried to bring it through the law they had corrected practically before us. The committee starts at 11 p.m., we received amendments to Article 1 of the law at 10:20 p.m. The law was written practically before us, and there is a system law that is very demanding and needs much thought and content. We absolutely oppose such a way of working and usurping this National Assembly. Members were unable to follow what was going on, and after half a night, the coalition MPs, while the rest of us were obstructing the pauses, that they even received amendments on the table so that they could decide on them. This is unacceptable and such practice in the SAB Party is strongly opposed and we will do everything we can to ensure that this law is not adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u3	Procedural proposal, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u4	Thank you, President. I'd like to continue where colleague Kociper ended up, and I'm actually also interested in your explanation of that. As we are told, we know what happened on Saturday, how this law was passed on the committee, or how it was dealt with. I think that there has also been some serious violation by the President of the Health Committee, who has voluntarily put to the vote one decision that can only be decided by the College of the National Assembly, not a problem to do after 22 p.m., but what has already been exposed. This law was practically born while it was being considered. When he was adopted in the middle of the night and members of the coalition and their supporters as robots pressed those buttons not to even know what was actually going on. We have waited less than 24 hours since the Committee's report, so we have seen this interim version of the law only yesterday after 12 p.m., today the new amendments have been tabled again and such laws should not and cannot be adopted. Now, also in line with the opinion of the legislature that this law is unclear, it is seriously indicative of some potential violation of Article 2 of the Constitution, the rule of law. And I think what this coalition is doing in force under such an important law is unacceptable and unacceptable when it is not done to the practically all interested public who will have to work with this law and have to live with it. By asking whether all the conditions for this law to be dealt with are actually met and whether we do not have any guardians in this National Assembly to prevent such abuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u6	The Honorable President. What we have today on the table and what has been happening since Saturday to this day is, of course, unheard. With the report, because the chairman of the committee for 24 hours refused to sign the report at all, we were practically waiting until the last one to see what was actually happening on Saturday. While thanking God that I see the Minister today, that he is not at work again, because I do not know what kind of job he is in, whether he is in Jessenica or at the Ministry, because it has been said that he is officially absent, I am very interested in how we can adopt such an important law, which is new, it is not a novel, it is not a minimal change, and which the Law and Law Service has made very clear that he is illegal, illegal and non-executive. Today, we are only to be able to boast and explain that it will receive some European money for something that is not feasible, and most importantly, it boasts that it is for people, but in fact the law is written in such a way that decisions will be issued, but the rights will never be exercised because they cannot be. And that's why, President, I want to know how long we're going to be looking at these illegalities in this anemia so everyone can do what they want in this National Assembly. The shame that happened on Saturday, in the fact that even you, the President, even referred to you, that you were involved in this story, if you had been spoken to, were called together by the leaders of the parliamentary group to convene a college that would allow work to continue after 10 p.m. and similar nonsense, while only one instruction from the famous prince was given – the law must be adopted at all costs. And that is what is unacceptable, that one person is also in control of this Parliament, in which he does not sit at all. And so, please, President, let me be President of the National Assembly once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u7	Dear colleagues, see. Also a colleague of Jani Möderndorfer. I suggest that you do not be misled about the work of the National Assembly, when you know well, because you are a long-standing Member, how many laws were passed in the late hours of the night. By 5:00 in the morning, some laws had been passed. And I'm the president who first introduced working hours by 10:00. When I proposed this as a leader of the parliamentary group to introduce this into the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or the Law on Members or the Law on the National Assembly, the opponents were both left and right, because they all said the National Assembly must work after 22 p.m. and need no working time. That is why this time of 22nd hour is because I believe that you do not all know this, as set out in the annual programme of work of the Assembly of State for 2021, which was adopted at the College. This is not in the rules of procedure or in any law. And I am the first one to advocate work by 22 p.m. — unless it is necessary that something be done at night. I'm the first. But please don't be dramatic now in the sense that everything is now unconstitutional and illegal because the committee has been working after 10:00. It's not. I've been looking into professional services, too. It's not. However, I agree that after 10 p.m. the adoption of the law, the introduction of amendments to the table does not contribute to the quality of the law and then warn many organisations about the law, but the content is something else, and I believe that those who disagree with the content that you consider to be insufficient to vote against or we will vote against it. Procedural proposal Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. You know, after all, the current opposition has nothing left but to point not only to the content but also to the violation of some of the agreements, you call them gentlemen's or the agreement in the Rules of Procedure. It is evident, President, that the Saturday session was conducted in such a way that it violated some of the agreements we made at the National Assembly in the College. And what do I mean? If the National Assembly wants to work after 10 a.m. the College of the National Assembly agrees and gives permission to the parent working body, this working body of the Health Committee has not had this agreement in the College, it is said that it would be possible to conclude in some way that the meeting could be concluded at 10 a.m. Believe me, Mr President and everyone in this Chamber, we are aware in the opposition that we need long-term care and the question of what kind of money and how the entire professional public should be involved. If the story were to go in such a way that we would extend for an hour normally because there were discussions and so on, they wouldn't make a cow out of it. But since it was obvious, I don't know why, I don't know this background, that marriage only goes through, but it doesn't matter what it is, and how it's going to be adopted, and how it's going to have an impact, and at 1:00 a.m., you've been getting some amendments on the table that changed certain articles to head, even the logic of this law changed to head, if that's what you think is right, okay. Therefore, I propose procedurally, the President, that we suspend the meeting, call the College and find out if there has been some kind of violation of the rule that we have by working until 2 p.m. and somehow put at least the rules of the game back where they belong. So I suggest we cut the session, call it off, president, college, lay down the rules of the game and then go to the content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u9	Procedural proposal of Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u10	Thank you, President. I have to come by to really support most of what my colleagues have already said before me. Amendments in a way, no, actually I'm going a step back, only the text of the law as we had it on the table, whose original sin is the lack of funding, which means the basis for law enforcement is not fulfilled, then it was upgraded by how the substantive amendments came at the last moment, it was also seen from the holding of the very meeting of the parent working body, even the President was confused at times and did not see which amendments to be voted on. And now the story is repeated just before the meeting of the National Assembly. At the last minute, the coalition has practically brought a number of amendments to the table that we will not even be able to study substantively enough so that we can make our decisions and proposals in a qualitative manner. I must say that we have a very big problem with this in our Group of Members. With regard to the work of the home working body after 22 p.m., it is true, as the President has said, that we have already proposed, together in the SMC Group of Members and colleagues, that the working time of the National Assembly should be regulated. There was no hearing back then. Then we proposed this once again, if not by law, at least by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And the draft working time proposal adopted in the context of the confirmation of the deadline for the National Assembly was what was in fact the most possible with some consensus. Even though this has not been adopted in the Rules of Procedure, this is something we agreed on and agreed on. And we should all stick to it, including the coalition. Of course, it is utopian to expect this, given that this coalition does not adhere to anything else. However, once again, I am alerting that there is a certain [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] dangerous practice, when we all find together that because we have accepted this under the timetable, of course none of us, nor the President, has the leverage to take any action against such action. And this means that from now on, when this has happened, it can happen that this will happen to us every day, but it is absolutely unacceptable and it is going in the direction of controlling this National Assembly from one other house, as my colleague Jani said. I'll do it. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I predict the introduction of a law where this working time will also be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to complete my explanation as regards the 22nd hour dilemma and the conclusion of the College. I agree, and I also do not want what we have adopted in this mandate or the annual work programme for 2021 to be eliminated in any way. And I propose that we continue to adhere to this practice. But there's something else I need to explain. This meeting today is extraordinary and has been called upon by Members. Here are the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure, including the 15-day deadline due today. And we are tied to this in plenary session as well as the president of the working body, who had to meet in front of the plenary session and in this, let's say, an ungrateful time when we have a meeting practically every day and it is difficult to find a deadline for the work of the committee. So these deadlines, which are business, were, however, before what was agreed on at the college when the work programme or programme was adopted for 2021. Comrade T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u12	Yeah, just so we don't get it wrong. It's not a problem at work on its own. Nobody gives a shit about working after 10:00. The procedure and the reasons you just said are problematic, President. I understand that it is a 15-day deadline and that it was necessary to convene and hold a session and a committee, but this is your part, which you just had to do according to the rules of procedure, and the second problem is in the coalition. The chairman of the committee lied to everyone that she had your oral consent to continue her work. She then put to the vote a decision which the Committee could not possibly adopt. The annual plan was adopted by a college in which time is fixed. And the amendments to such an agreement can only be accepted by the same body and this is the college. The other thing is that this was done only for one reason to adopt this law as soon as possible. And that's unacceptable and irresponsible. If there were any conscientious members of the coalition and those who helped them, they could give their consent to this meeting later, the committee could be suspended on Saturday and such an important law could be dealt with in some normal way. The problem is that the coalition wants to adopt this law as soon as possible, to make itself a hook in its programme and to put into practice the other laws that block this law, including the PKP 10. And that's what you're doing, completely irresponsible. A law that has no tail and head, and we do not even know what it will bring, except that it does not have proper funding and that it will essentially privatize the area of long-term care. That's what he does, and that's what you do with lying, deceiving and forcefully. And that's totally unacceptable. That is why I also support my colleague Han's proposal to convene colleges or consult and discuss this before we proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Comrade Jože Tanko, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! What we are listening to right now is absolutely no procedural proposal. None of them meet the criteria for a procedural proposal. Not one. The meeting was held on a regular basis. None of you have suggested withdrawing the item from the agenda, which you might have done. None of the Members of Parliament and all that you now realize has been done wrong can easily address your comments to the Commission on the Rules of Procedure and will decide on these matters. All that is going on right now is a mix of emotions, substantive debates and some, I don't know, thinking about how to sort things out so that, say, we don't take it in the next few months. Everything you do is unnecessary. We have a commission for the Rules of Procedure, there is a hundred and a number of proposals to change the content of the Rules of Procedure and the way in which the National Assembly and the working bodies work. Things can also be complemented there by some of your suggestions, but apparently there is no great interest in change. So, you know, now that there is no proposal to withdraw the agenda item, only the vote on the agenda remains. That's all. The substantive debate will then be held at agenda item 1 if you wish to participate in this debate or if you will obstruct it as you are on the working body. This, it is, Mr President, to be done peacefully, to vote, everything else that is now going on is irrelevant and does not have any basis in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u15	He doesn't. Well, look, this proposal wasn't the most business-oriented either. Colleague Kociper. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u16	Yes, that Mr Tanko, who knew the hours and hours with procedural proposals, would block the work of this National Assembly, would be wise to tell me how to speak here, indeed, almost seems. We have no other way here than to procedurally create some problems that have arisen here. I'd like to support Vatovec's colleague. It is not a problem like you, President, as you have turned your work around after 10:00, the problem is the usurpation of this National Assembly by a coalition that did not wait for this law to come to the December session, but called an extraordinary meeting knowing that we do not actually have deadlines when this law could be considered. Knowing that they have a law that is completely inoperable, which is completely incomplete, which has no financing, which has no definition, which has no elements that have nothing, they wanted to bring it through quickly at night sessions. On a committee that started at eleven and was told by the president at eleven in the morning that it would last until 22, we are also only Members, we are also just people, then they pull and push through at the night session of the amendment, they change the law, etc. That's the problem, not work after 10:00. And we have no other chance than to procedurally warn ourselves that they are usurping the National Assembly. If this meeting were to be held in December, this point in December, the government could prepare everything in peace and the Members could discuss this law in peace. So today, I hope, no one knows exactly what this marriage is about because we received a report yesterday at twelve.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u17	Thank you very much. See, the request has been made and the law or the Rules of Procedure do not have any restrictions on who can and when may and at any burden of the National Assembly. But the request has been made and we have to process it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if it does not suit us. Colleague Natasa Sukič, a procedural proposal, and then I suggest that we move slowly to setting the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you explain the basic concepts to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, while he moralises what procedural proposals are, he moralises himself, and this is not a procedural proposal to moralise us here. Plus, to suggest that you review, I formally propose as a Member, who is repeatedly disturbed by the vice-president's debate and, like my opposition colleagues, that you warn him to start holding meetings when he is in your chair as he is decent, but not that he interrupts us all the time, he falls into our words while we are discussing and he is doing this all the time. He's just now shown his intention to discipline us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u19	Look, this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u20	and usurp this national council. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u21	We're going with the subject. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I'm also a colleague of Han's.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u22	I would like to ask, President, for a 20-minute recess for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u23	No, look, there's something else I'm proposing, but it's a procedural proposal, there's no pause, there's no procedural decision. I'm proposing something else. In view of the fact that it is an important law, that the legislative process has also resulted in a whole series of comments that are problematic to various parts of the law, from funding to those baskets of services and so on. Given that it worked on Saturday, given that the report also came relatively late, I suggest that after the opening explanation we take another hour off, take another look at the material and then continue with this law. One hour off, I think it's a fair suggestion. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the agenda of the 87th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on long-term malaise within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the representative of the Government, I apologize, Minister of Health Janez Poklukar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u24	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenian health care is currently facing the greatest challenge in its history. Situations in hospitals in these days are not easy due to the destructive power of the virus. Nevertheless, despite the current situation, we must not forget the rest of the area. These areas are of course equally strategically important and are addressed in the long term. Long-term care is certainly one of them. With the previous participation of stakeholders and public debates, we have committed ourselves to actively and constructively working together during the process of addressing the proposal for a long-term supply law. So today you have a complementary and improved proposal, which also follows the proposals of additions submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposal for a long-term supply law thus clearly sets out who are beneficiaries of long-term care, what long-term care rights are, in what ways the beneficiary of long-term care can benefit the beneficiary, whose services are included in long-term care and that these services are adapted to the needs of the user, that long-term care is provided both at home and in the institution, that citizens will have access to comparable rights for comparable needs, regardless of their socioeconomic status or other personal characteristics, and that we will ensure with additional public resources that individuals, their families, as well as local communities, are burdened with the financial burden that the need for long-term care brings. The debate in recent weeks has shown that long-term care is an area that touches all of us, that we are united, that the area of long-term care is essential for a uniform system. That together we can set up a new pillar of social security for our common better tomorrow, so that by adopting the law we can enable those who need long-term care to receive only this and that when an individual is unable to take care of himself alone and despised. Once again, if I sum up the key solutions in the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act, I would point out a single eligibility assessment, which would provide a basis for persons with comparable needs to have access to comparable rights, a choice of beneficiaries who could benefit from the right to long-term care in the form of formal home care or formal care in an institution or in cash receipt or a provider of a family member. Access to all treatment, both in the institution and at home, access to new services, including services for strengthening and maintaining independence and e-services. A higher share of public resources for long-term care, provided by budgetary resources for the first two years in 2025, when long-term care is already carried out in all forms and in all environments, a specific long-term insurance law shall be implemented. The honourable Members, honourable Members, the proposal for the Long-Term Care Act ahead of you brings answers to the challenges that we have not been able to address in the last decades in the area of long-term care. It provides answers to the needs of people who need long-term care and respond to the needs of performers who work with extreme efforts within frameworks that have been set up over 20 years ago. I believe in the common interest of all of us to build a better tomorrow, part of which is also a unified system of long-term care. I believe in the solutions [[sign for the end of the debate]] The proposal for a law shall be made. I ask you to support the law that the solutions that are on paper today will already be available to the citizens who need them in a good year. The bill on long - term care before you today is a reflection that together we can do good things. These things will affect the lives of everyone. I sincerely thank you for your cooperation, your efforts, your work and, of course, your support. Thank you. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u26	President, thank you so much for your word. Well, as you know, she was 20. 11. 2021 meeting of the working parent body, where we discussed the proposal for a law on long-term care. True, the meeting was held on Saturday, but only because there was no other free time. The meeting began at 10 a.m., thinking that, of course, it would be closed by 10 p.m. Here we also went on hand to proposers of the second law by the KUL, who asked us to deal with that law earlier and, as I believe important, the report was prepared as soon as it was able to prepare the relevant services, and I have no influence on the specific working hours. So there was no restraint on my part. As far as the content itself is concerned, you could read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was given, the opinion of the applicants in essence, by the Government, by the State Secretary, Mrs Forte, and on the other hand the opinion of the Council of State, which supported the bill. Of course, the debates were different, on the one hand the coalition, which supported the bill, on the other hand the so-called left opposition, because the SNS even joined the individual amendments of the coalition, of course opposed the bill. During the debate of the law, the opposition without the SNS decided to declare obstruction, and it did so. We continued our work and eventually it was really late in the hours, if there were no procedural ones, we would have finished by 22 p.m. and adopted all the articles of the law and adopted the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 26th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the position of the parliamentary groups. Before we go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I'm adjourning the session until 11.40. (The sitting was suspended at 10.35 a.m.) (The sitting resumed at 11.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u28	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session and item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u29	Yes, thank you very much, President. I must primarily respond to the presentation of the Committee's report because of the magnetogram. The Chairman of the Committee said and read that they had continued their work at the end and were in the late hours, if there were no procedural procedures, they would have completed by 10:00. The opposition obstructed the meeting around 22.35 to 20.40, the meeting ended at 1.35 p.m., which is 3 hours later. For the sake of accuracy and clarity, and in order to deny another abuse of the committee that took place with this presentation of the report, the meeting was suspended from that point on until the end of the meeting six times during the period from 23 to 1 hours 10 due to the arrival of the amendments. So that we could also interpret that this law, if there were no preliminary points and no preliminary readings and discussions, could not be concluded by 10 a.m. because you have not had any amendments at all. So once again what was presented in the report is a lie. And once again, the chairman of the committee abused this committee today on this report and on Saturday, the legislative procedure in full. So I understand that this is not a procedural proposal and just [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u30	Yeah, it's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u31	But I think it has to be in the magnetogram, because to go so far as to lie now at every point and abuse given the procedure is unworthy. [[…]] I don't think this man could be the chairman of the committee, and he's very likely not even a Member. So once again, there is only one reason, and this is that this law is adopted, although it will have serious harmful consequences for the long-term care sector and will build up a whole bunch of overlords for everyone in this country after it is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u32	I propose that we stick to the procedural proposals in the spirit in which they were written in the Rules of Procedure. What was happening on the committee was, after all, visible or visible from the committee's magnetic chart, as was the case on the committee. So I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Who wants to discuss it? Just ah, there's something about you. [[…]] Okay, I'm going to run a list or a list of discussers. Please sign up. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u33	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the debate, of course, I will define myself to the amendments that we are proposing, and I will also make a general position of the Left Group. Now universally accessible and quality long-term care is something we need and can and must afford, not only in the light of obvious demographic trends, but simply because we bear this responsibility to provide material, mental, health care for all members of society. When we talk about the weak, this responsibility is even greater. It is true that, in the area of long-term care at this time, the situation is not pink in order to fix many things, but to some extent long-term care services provide this intertwine of health and social protection, a protection area. However, it is a policy task, of course, to seek solutions where necessary. And they are needed in this situation when we face a shortage of services, a shortage of beds in nursing homes, a shortage of staff providing long-term care. The key areas still need to be addressed. First of all, in the light of social responsibility, it is of course important that long-term care services be financed in solidarity, i.e. through contributions that burden income proportionally and where capital, i.e. employers, also contribute their share. That's one thing. That in the event that long-term care cannot fully cover the contribution, the supply is financed by the state budget, as we have it in practice at the pension fund. Then an important point is the fact that the implementation of long-term care must be part of the public service. Public services where there are clear standards where there are clear standards, implementation parameters where there is no outsourcing of services, and where there is no breaking of the price of labour, where there is no exaggeration of the care professions, which we see is happening, and where there is no wealth primarily at the expense of cheap labour and lower supply standards. It is important, of course, that long-term care is available, equally available, equally accessible, equally accessible and equally quality for all. That there are no superstandard services in this area for the privileged - for those who can afford more than one care, for those who have less, different care. So solidarity and secure financing, public service, universal accessibility, universal quality of services and safe employment. Now for this proposal. In Levica, we note that this present government proposal for the Long-Term Supply Act does not essentially bring any of the above. Moreover, we note that it is a diametric contradiction to the solutions needed in the area of long-term care in the assignment of its users and operators, and it is essentially harmful. The law does not systematically and permanently regulate the financing of long-term care, but it places it on some non-existent law in the future. Implementation is left to the market. When such a thing enters the market, we know what happens – tightening competition, entering foreign multinationals and lowering labour law standards, lowering the quality of supply and so on. The law, of course, entails the exaggeration of the supply workforce. And such a law can, in fact, only make the situation of older and other groups eligible for long-term care worse. One of the great sins of this law, perhaps the greatest in the adoption process itself, is the fact that the union, with expertise, with the people concerned, has not been coordinated at all. In a political sense, we can say that this law is one such shameless frontal attack on the social state, on all its actors, and in a technical and professional sense, only one shameful squabble, which has only harmful consequences. It must also be said that it does not answer the most important issues that we are facing in the area of long-term care today. The law does not answer the question of how many new homes we will get for the elderly by means of this law, how many new elderly people will be allowed to stay and provide quality care at the home of the elderly or in another less traditional method. It does not answer the question of how many new jobs will be brought into the homes of the elderly and so on. Key questions. But keep the horses, this criticism is not just a political statement possibly the loudest opposition party. In response to the proposal of the law, all actors in the area of long-term care in Slovenia, all organisations, all institutions, or organizations in the field of care for the elderly, disabled organisations, the Association of Blind and Disabled, the umbrella relationship in social protection and so on. And this marriage, colleagues and colleagues, none of them approve. None of the organisations operating in the field that deal with long-term care support this law. The Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, for example, paraphrasing their message, has warned that the Government has ignored virtually all civil society, trade unions and professions, calls for the law not to be supported because it leads to poorer quality, less accessibility, overreach. In silver or in silver, they warn that the law is inappropriate and must be rejected. The Community of Social Institutions is proposing a huge number of technical and substantive amendments to the law, but they point out that the law does not introduce any new services, they point out that the proposal does not specify how services will be valued, how services will be paid, how they will be implemented, they point out that 25% of caregivers and caregivers in older people's homes will fall out of the long-term care system, where we will give these services, and how we will care for these 5,000 people is asked about a good organisation that looks after work at home for the elderly. Then the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia 44 pages long document in essence criticism and justification why such law is stupidity. In the Association of Retired Associations, it is considered that the bill's proposal is non-systematic, non-consistence, insufficiently appropriate, conceptually flawed and so forth, that I am not talking about the response of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which essentially explains that it is not a law at all, but a shell. To regulate people's social rights like that, but I don't know how or for anyone or ever. So the common denominator of all responses from the field is a law that is so bad that it cannot be fixed. In Levi, we join critics and hope for the understanding of at least the majority of Members in this Chamber at the vote, and we hope that the bill will not go beyond the vote to avoid this total disaster, which this proposal offers in the area of long-term care, and we are submitting proposals for amendments which we will also justify and which are, above all, towards ensuring public access and human and financial sustainable long-term care. We propose that the law defines long-term care as an inalienable right, and we propose that long-term care be financed from public funds, not from some unfair earnings insurance, so that long-term care becomes exclusively public service with clear standards, clear labour parameters. We propose that the proposed provider of a family member replaces the qualified public service of long-term care and that the Government, for God's sake, should by no means take away the blind, visually impaired and other beneficiaries of the aid and service allowance, which is, of course, in itself, an insolence of a pair of excellencies. The law that we are going to discuss and vote today is bad, and it is beyond repair, so we will reject it at the vote of the Left Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u35	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear guests, esteemed Members and Members of Parliament, and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! I am pleased that we have before us a second consideration of the Long-Term Care Act, which means that the National Assembly, because we have held a general debate on this law, has already decided once and without a vote against it by 45 votes in favour. This law has also undergone treatment on the work force of the mother, and today there is another treatment before us. The fact is that this law, this version of the Long-Term Care Act, is the first law that we are considering in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, while before that there are 126 versions that I do not think the Government has addressed or even the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which says much. Why we can thus call this a very visual view at the beginning of today's session, when it took about half an hour for us to vote on the agenda at all, but you know, and if in the past this is the way in which the preparation and adoption of laws, especially those of such importance, is likely not surprising that these laws have not even come into the parliamentary procedure. Today, we are discussing a marriage that is in one way or another that is likely to touch each one of us. This law places an individual in the center and not only refers to older populations, but also to those who, due to possible injury or other health reasons, need permanent or at least long-term care, i.e. disabled persons and those who, for example, have some injury and, of course, address those who need long-term care because of their age. And that's why this law is so important, and that's why this law actually refers to everyone who lives in Slovenia. It's a system law that brings a lot of solutions. It'll all be arranged in one place. We have, in fact, if we divide it somehow, we have four pillars. On the one hand, we have formal care at the institutional level and home care, which leads to, of course, an elderly person, if he has any help at home, some care, can stay at home for a long time and this is also one of the factors that can measure the quality of life during the third life period and which I think we are looking at somehow as a society. Then there's cash assistance here as a third pillar and a fourth as a family member's provider. In short, there is some solution that this law accurately regulates and unites them in one marriage. A key message, or one of the key messages, is that this law, regardless of what social standard is, the status of an individual and where he lives in Slovenia, also provides comparable services for comparable needs. This simplifies that the third life period can be safe, peaceful and dignified for all, and that is that key message, that is the key contribution that this law also brings. In our introductions, we have heard evidence of how many homes this law will build up, what will not be done with this law. Yeah, well, I wonder how many homes you've built that you've been in power for years and years. This government has done much more in a very short time than some of you have done in the last ten years, and believe me, it will also be in the future when, or when the SDS is the one running the government. And I hope that today, in the course of the debate, we can perhaps clear up some of the dilemmas that you have for individuals, that they will answer your questions by the Ministry of Health, and that in the end you will be able to make a reasonable decision and that you will support a solution that provides the conditions for them to be a safe, peaceful and dignified age for each of us. I think we should want this as a society. Finally, it is also the duty of Members and Members to establish such a condition. As President of the Council of the Senior Congregations of Tržič, I have listened over and over and over again to why this area is not settled, we need a comprehensive law, we need a comprehensive solution, and in recent years there has been much talk about it, but unfortunately it has not. and today we have a marriage before us, we can upgrade it today, I would call it, but there is a concrete law before us that brings concrete solutions and we take this step today and we confirm it. And let me continue with the fact that when we talk about the Long-Term Care Act, Slovenia is one of the most old people in the world. We are an ageing society and, in view of the development, including science and health, thank God also a long-lived society and, as a result, we must also adapt to this in the legislative field, and one of the important answers to these questions is the Long-term Care Act. And it's about the fact that the system law also brings about a source and a way of funding and that it means that things kind of merge together in one law, it's also more transparency, more control over all of this. It brings social security for an individual, brings financial burden on local communities and brings effective public control both in the use of resources and on the other hand the quality of service. It is said that the comparable services that an individual needs are in fact, or the needs that he actually has, that the services are comparable, no matter where an individual lives or receives a particular service. I am pleased that even in the first reading there was a lot of positive words about this law, a lot of encouraging words about this law, and that politics, I am sure, is aware that in most cases, we have before us a very complex law, a law that is good and a law that will improve a lot, respect and respect, a lot of life. People who work years and years, go to work, build Slovenian society deserve a peaceful decent life even when they are in the third lifetime. And with respect and respect, this law brings it. That's true and that's a fact, no matter how many people you've tried, and you'll probably be trying to show it in the next five, six hours. The respected and respected government coalition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by this law, also realizes what we have promised. This is an important step to put people, our residents and residents, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia first. And my decision to support this law in the second reading follows this. For we all deserve a third lifetime of peace, security, and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u36	Thank you, too. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. At the beginning of the consideration of the amendments, a few things have to be said. We've been makin' the marriage, I'll say, for 20 years, first at the Social Ministry, where nothing happened and then the matter was transferred to the Ministry of Health. And now, after many years, we have a law and an amendment to settle this area. I would like to say that, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it was written on November 17th, which is two days before the Committee's meeting. And that's why it wasn't possible to make the amendments before, what's apparently that we were carrying the amendments to the table that day. It's a technical correction mostly. So, in the National Assembly, we had the law from 24 June, and then two days before the Committee, we get the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and then a lot of these technical things have to be put in. However, there was no material change whatsoever. The legislative and legal service has warned that some articles are not clear enough and are not sufficient, therefore also as a result not sufficiently comprehensible. [[…]] And these things were getting better. Yeah, and it makes a little sense. We now have long-term care arranged in seven different laws and you have just passed solutions from different laws and therefore can actually come to any, I will say anomalies in terms of or references to wrong articles or something like that, which the Legislative and Legal Service has warned about and with amendments to the committee on Saturday we have fixed these things. Even better now with the amendments that you have before you, when even a little more calmed down some of the other things have come to mind. Don't hold on to what Comrade Siter said. Everyone's against it. On the committee we listened to people from practice, for example we had a presentation of how the pilot project took place in Krske. The lady presented how things were going, what the performance was like. The solutions foreseen in the law or functioning, how they work, where improvements are needed, but this is, of course, a practice. What we need to do in marriage is to determine how the matter is going to go, and then, of course, practice shows some weakness, but in such a complex marriage, it is impossible for everything to be perfectly arranged on the first day and then things always show up. However, it is important that we then know how to turn them on and accept them. This is why the law is also designed to introduce changes gradually. One of you is saying we're going to bring down the whole system. That's why we won't. Those things that are already running, so home care and so on, will essentially go on, new elements, and new forms will be introduced gradually, over a year, in two years, just to set things straight, so that things can go as they should. Now, quite a few comments have been taken into account. My friend Siter said that the ZZS just wrote something and that it's against everything that's not true. The ZZZ, which will do this, write, issue decisions and so on, warned that it would take some more time to do so. We have also taken this into account, and we have supplemented or extended our hands a little. They did, however, comment, again, purely technical, because of which records must collect data and so on and these things had to be reintroduced with amendments. Just so no one turns out like you said people will fall out, and so on, no one will fall out because things will be done gradually. Those who are already in the home of older citizens, for example, will receive a new decision. This will be done gradually, slowly, until then, everything is as it is now, from then on, things will be arranged paper differently, and for an individual will be running as before, only to distinguish that there is some accommodation and nutrition in the home, this part of the long-term care will be its own story and significantly more resources for this, which means that there will also be greater security. My friend Siter also asked how many homes we would do and what we would do. Look, the point of this marriage is quite different. The European Union is promoting non-institutional protection, so that people stay as long as possible at home, and we also want to, because this is not the most expensive thing for the country, but also because people want to stay at home. The older person is difficult to leave home and goes to an institution, you know, they have problems and the purpose of this law and the orientation of this law is that people stay at home as long as possible and help them in a place where they are, because they do not need much health care or anything like that, but they need only one part of this social assistance and long-term care, help with shopping, food and similar things, help with, I don't know, they go to the store or, say, as we heard from these experimentals, one lady has had problems, people don't even know themselves or just get out of bed and then they have problems and things like that. All these things will help them, and they will be able to stay at home, not needing help, for example, or be accommodated in the home of the elderly because we know that we do not have enough. However, this year and a half we have done a lot for it, we have called for new concessions, new homes are being built, but never home will be enough for all who need a home and meaning, once again, as I said, is that people stay as long as they can and they want to stay as long as possible at home, and we have to help them and enable them to be at home. The law provides for coordinators, we have introduced a new profession, so to speak, a social gerontologist. This is a new knowledge that deals with age, examines the physical, mental, sociological aspects of ageing and so on and also deals with how older people change through the ageing process, how society changes and seek answers to these questions, how we will help. It has already been said, since the Slovenian population is old, we are one of the oldest populations in the world and we need to respond to this new situation with the right measures, and this is how we do it. The coordinator will then also draw up an implementation plan, for each individual, what someone needs and this is certainly a better treatment than our elders are now receiving. If you have read the Court of Auditors reports and so on, it points out that this has not been satisfactorily helped by people who needed help and that we have consistently responded to it. Now with the law we're regulating it, there's so much opposition. Colleague Siter also said that the blind and the visually impaired would be left without an allowance for help and service, which is not true, and we arranged this with the amendment in agreement with them. We talked, they suggested that they wanted this to stay, and that option remained. They will be able to do so, or they will opt for long - term care, which will be more beneficial for them. In view of the law, I am convinced that the latter will be more beneficial, but we have allowed them to remain in the aid and service allowance if they so desire. So he doesn't hold that there was no one listening, that everything was done in its own way and so on. However, there may have been some comments, too, because perhaps the law, in which the work was not clear enough, but this has been coordinated, with the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service complemented and completed, and I think that now the law answers all these dilemmas and I will say it removes and clarifys them and things are more understandable, more clear and, of course, it seems to me that we have done an important job and you can't always see it all in the future. As I said, the position of the Legislative and Legal Service was given two days before the meeting of the Committee and it was not possible to prepare these technical amendments, which were now prepared and adopted. We will adopt some today and thus improve the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. I will respond to the two predecessors. That is, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is the key player in the operation of this proposed law, was in this public part of this debate, if we can say so to her, he was given a five-minute opportunity to present his opinions to the Health Committee on Saturday. Even though I called the president myself, then to give them more opportunities, more time to do so have been given five minutes. Their position — a negative attitude — to this law and the way it will be implemented or not to be implemented is 44 pages long. I'm not going through all the points, but their position is negative. The Health Insurance Office says that in practice this cannot be done in a manner such as the Government proposes that funding is vaguely determined that the way in which it is implemented is unclear. This is an organisation, an institution which will have to implement the provisions of this law in practice. Then the ZPS. The coordination of the ZPS, an expensive coalition, they have thus written 41 pages of comments on each article on primary school errors, references to the wrong article in other laws have been highlighted and you will not tell me that everything is now harmonised and that the law is legally formal BP. A key challenge. In the area of long-term care, the main problem we have here today is that there is not enough staff to take care of everyone who needs long-term care and that there is not enough beds in nursing homes. We can talk about flirting with other alternative ways, but this is a pressing problem here and now, and this law is necessary and interventional as it occurs in its occurrence does not respond to these key intervention problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Alenka Forte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr Vice-President. I'm not just going to owe you a little debt to point out what's the point of this marriage. We have institutional protection today. Some 23,000 people are housed in homes where they are well cared for, but we as a society have poorly taken care of those who have the same needs as those in institutions and remain at home, either because of long waiting periods or because there is no system to evaluate their needs. And Slovenia has more beds per thousand than average between European countries and OECD countries. We have 54.4, while the OECD data is 47.2. This law does not mean that we need more beds, but that the needs of our population are wider than those of those in our homes, that we have many, many persons who have needs and yet do not have the same quality treatment that those who are set up in nursing homes receive. And the key to this law is that it can be evaluated and everyone who has needs that are recognized, and not only over 65 plus, but over 18 plus. This is also a novelty that we do not recognize because we also have in the age category 18 to 65 people who have needs that are not enough for them. And the law allows those who have comparable needs to receive comparable services. The law provides new social security, new social security. I will not be talking about funding now, because there will be more options in the debate. So we refer the problem to the entire population. And it's not true that we support some kind of privatisation. We have a public network, which is also supported by this law, but we want to establish a system, fair, social, which will also provide services to those who are at home. And that's the point. Recommendations and the world are also being developed to enable people with a manna who have some need for services to be at home, in their home environment, and in their services. And in this way we not only burden the congregations that are present today, but especially relatives. And what is also extremely important is the financial burden on the individual. What do we have today? Whoever is installed in a nursing home has, in fact, self-paying everything, either accommodation and nutrition or the kind of care he needs for social and health care. And those amounts aren't small. They also have health care, of course. And by establishing a single evaluation, with the same tool for all citizens, we establish 5 new categories and each category has a choice, a service to a specific quota. And so some quota category 5 or in a nursing home or in another institution or home will receive a comparable amount of funds or the same. And the content of this amount will be perfected according to his needs. So we approach the individual attribution of certain content of rights according to what kind of patient we have a protector against ourselves. And it doesn't matter if he's in the institution. It is essential that we make this possible at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u43	Yes, thank you. Now we're talking about home care as a rescue plant. Look, one thing is that we still have a devastated network of public homes in the country, that we have people who also want home care, and that the fact that flirting with these ideas about home care still calls only for us to continue this important part through privatisation. That's a fact. And home care, also on the other hand, as it is set up, simply opens the door to new nicknames, for new dangerous employment opportunities, this time through the institution of this family provider, instead of putting in place a system of quality, public network, that is, providers of long-term care that would be available to all regardless of anything. As for the public network, the distinguished secretary, and your so-called... promoting a public network, and we see that. Let's just look at the last year. Let us look at the award of concessions, the construction of homes, the promotion of the privatisation of this area beyond concessions and so on. Things are clear. And simply with some wingeds about an alternative approach, just no one can buy it. Look at all the people who are concerned with long-term care and who have responded. He gave a positive opinion, I don't know, he gave some Karitas, and we know that he's somehow directly spoken to one of the state secretaries in this government. That's it. Otherwise, privatisation will sign all the steps, all the proposals, all the measures we have in this matter of long-term care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposaler, Alenka Forte.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u45	Just for a moment, let me answer the Member of Parliament. Yes, the views of some institutions were presented. Who, though, presented the views of all those who are at home today who do not have adequate services? Who presented the distresses of relatives who care for these relatives? Who? Nobody. However, institutions have been invited, excuse me, even some potential for maintaining their own interest in existence. No one has heard the population of demented patients, no one has invited any association of chronic patients to tell their distresses at home. So that, yes, some institutions have represented positions, but we have not heard the voice of those who are at home who do not have care, and we have not heard of their relatives who are faced with their regular duties in the ministry, with those who care for their involved relatives, parents, old parents. We didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Now, first of all, I'm only gonna say one sentence and then I'm gonna finish everything that happened this morning. If all these humiliations that have been flying on my account today are all profanities, if all of this is worth it to get married today, I'll stand up to them and I'll be in the future. All those who watched the session, who were accompanying it, also had their own opinions. And thank God I got these many also on different forms of messages. Well, I'm really going to focus on this now because everything else is a second-class topic. Now, look, with long-term care we're kind of dealing with one more, one less for years. And she's been found missing for years, and we need her. Now, Slovenia is one very old society, unfortunately. I hope that the measures taken by this government, such as the free kindergarten for the other and every child, will also help to reverse some trend and not speak like that over the years. But some data on the frame. In Slovenia we record about 20% of those over 65 years of age. It is also important to note that, according to these statistics and various analyses, there is a projection that by 2050 we will find this share at 30%. Can you imagine 30%? And it should also be said that the proportion of the elderly would then be, according to those from 80 years of age, from 5%, in 2016 this figure would be 11.4% by 2050. These are, folks, ours, this is our real picture. And in this picture, we do not have a law on long - term care until today. Now, if not the other, let these numbers tell us that this marriage is necessary and a call to all those who may hesitate not to accept it. I remember when I also asked a question on this subject, in 2019, I received an answer in September when I asked what it was about long-term care, which I asked the so-called Minister of the Charles Government. The answer was that the proposal is being prepared in accordance with the plan that 2017, you all know this, then this law somehow brought about from work, family and social affairs to health and its promise, here I have an answer, was that we would have a marriage early in 2019 and it was not. And then there was a change of government, and now this law is, the proposal is on the table. Now I have to say how important this long-term care is to speak also to the advice that I think around June, the summer was, the president of the country, 2020 on this subject and he invited all the presidents of the parliamentary parties, here because today he happens to be sitting, there was also a colleague of Bratušek at this meeting with the president of the country, there were other presidents, there were individuals who are very busy in this area and there actually seemed to be things not as close as they should be. But look today we're a year later and things are running out and today we have a proposal for a marriage. Mr Siter earlier said that we gave five minutes to different stakeholders on the committee, this is, of course, the custom in the National Assembly in view of the way meetings are going to take place, to get invited at the outset if the need is at the end. But it's important to know that of the 25 invited, I think there were 11 present at the end. If Comrade Siter thought that this was the only thing that was discussed with the interested public was wrong, the Ministry of Health was constantly talking to different stakeholders. I think that you, like us, have also spoken to different stakeholders, those who were here at the time, we have listened to them, and with the help of the coalition, we have also told them what can be done, what their demands are and so on. In short, it's not true that there was no way to talk before or that there wasn't at all. As far as the procedure in the National Assembly is concerned, we have also done the first examination, and we have also adopted the proposal at that time. There was so much to say. In short, if someone thinks that if you don't come together completely with every participant, but he probably knows that this mission is impossible and is moving today, then someone who doesn't like one thing at all will always like it, but we are looking forward to somehow preparing a law that will take care of the care of both institutions and at home, both forms will be important and in view of the ageing society will also be increasingly important. It is also forgotten and overlooked that colleague Eva Irgle, who runs the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, held a meeting as an interested working body and also held a debate on this law, was also able to say a lot of things, and there were also stakeholders who could speak. I think any delay in this law is actually irresponsible. I think it's far more irresponsible than anything that's been heard this morning, that we don't have such a marriage because we need it. Of course, you can differ today, there are always different opinions. It's the first marriage, Your Honor. It's the first system law we don't have and this system law, and that's all your ministry talked about when the minister was someone else, and you were a supercoanist. So the fact is, I think it's just some kind of delay with these discussions right now. If there's anything concrete, I think we should open it up. We have the amendments, we'll look at them. As for the amendments that came to the bench at the time of the hearing on the working body, look, those amendments were actually of a technical nature and they were not substantive amendments, and I believe that there is only one, I will say, once again, one manoeuvre, that you are trying to say that I do not know how the law is amended. Yes, but not in the substantive part. And I believe that you could look at it, too, but that the wish was entirely the other one, that this marriage would not in fact come to be moved, etc. But I think it is right that we have come to this point and I hope that the law will also be adopted, because I think we owe it to citizens and citizens to give it to them. We are obliged to settle this area, but I will never say that everything is always perfect. However, this law is important, it is a good law and I believe it will bring the necessary steps that we need.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm going to start my debate like this. Unlike members of the opposition, I am happy that people will finally come to an orderly long-term care. Now, everyone sitting here knows that the adoption of the law itself has been going on for an extremely long time, about 20 years. During this time, a number of large-money studies have been carried out, while pilot projects have also shown that in fact this direction, as pointed out by the Government with this law, is good and is true, but, of course, as with every law, especially in such complex and difficult matter, it is clear that only after things have come to life in practice can we really see possible shortcomings. And, of course, marriage is not ideal, but it will certainly be corrected when it is accepted in those parts where it is perceived to be flawed. But today it is crucial to accept it, so that people who have not been trained so far will finally be provided with regulated long-term care both in institutional protection and in homes for older people and other forms of institutional protection at home. She was already Secretary of State, Mrs Forte mentioned that some 70,000 people do not even have the kind of care they have in their nursing homes, but the fact that when we faced an epidemic, it proved to be even more flawed, and this law saves that and more. Now, if we take a plastic look to make the people who are following us know what we're talking about, I'm only going to say one case. See how it is now arranged, say, the financial price at home of older citizens and how it will be under the Long-Term Care Act. Now it is so-called, but not misinterpreted, the so-called hotel part, i.e. the bed plus food covers the care provider or the lodger himself, will also cover the costs of social services, while health services cover the Health Insurance Office, but after this law, when adopted today, the situation for residents will change significantly and it is crucial to say so. First, in fact, they will have less money to pay, because under the Long-Term Care Act, the tenant will pay the so-called hotel part, i.e. bed plus food, social services plus one part of health care, i.e. health care, will cover the Long-Term Care Act and that is 100 per cent, that is, while clean health services, if we say so, will continue to cover the Health Insurance Office and that is right for us to tell people, because it is a very important acquisition for them. Most of the time, it was within this debate, which, in my opinion, was of quality and everyone had the opportunity to discuss the Long-Term Care Act as well. My colleague Anja mentioned that we did not need to call on this committee at the meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as an interested working group, but I thought it was right for people to hear that it was right that I, as chairman of the Committee, had overestimated that it was important that the Committee on Labour, as an interested working body, was also aware of the content mentioned, discussed it, and finally adopted a decision that seemed very important to me. So to preserve the rights of the most vulnerable groups, in this case disabled people. In short, these are important things that we have certainly discussed on the Labour Committee, although it may have been a late hour for someone, but I think the decision was the right one. So, most of the time, through this debate, funding was mentioned or problematic where it would be, where it would be financed and so on, and it must be made clear that this was also arranged. Funding by 2025 will be provided from pension and health insurance and the rest will be covered by the state budget. That's just a fact and you have to tell it. In the meantime, of course, it is also envisaged that a special long-term insurance law be adopted to regulate funding after 2025. Now, if we just look at long-term care, a few things have been said by my colleagues, but the fact is, why is it such an important marriage? In all, in most or most European countries, long-term care is one of the key elements. Why? Above all, because we are a rapidly growing society, the rapidly ageing population is particularly affected by Slovenia. The projections mentioned above have been that the proportion of this population, i.e. over 65 years old, will be 30% by 2050 and, of course, it is important to ensure the best conditions for this population, and one step is to adopt this Long-Term Care Act. What seems essential to me, but we can continue to do so in the amendments themselves, is also that I am glad that we have preserved the rights acquired to the blind and the visually impaired. I myself have spoken with the President of the blind and visually impaired society and, of course, as Chairman of the Labour Committee, I have insisted on correcting this with the amendment and today we are correcting or correcting it. The second thing that seems important to me is that within the law the status of family assistants is regulated. You will recall that I, or for a number of years, have warned, even as President of the Commission on Human Rights, that I have also convened several meetings on this subject, later also a colleague who now presides over the Commission, convened a agenda item with this content, and each time we agreed that the status of family assistants should finally be settled, and today we do so, in particular in that part relating to the payment of 1.2 times the minimum wage, and, on the other hand, we also regulate the possibility that 21 days the caregiver can survive in the protection that those who, on the other hand, 24 hours a day, all days of the year can do this noble work, indeed take care of the care of the caregiver, that in some way he can also rest. So these are things that I think are very important within this law and it is also right to accept. Now I know that the concerns were that it would be good for the marriage or the status of family assistants to be governed by a special law. I have to say that I was there for this myself, so we have also taken a decision on the committee. I have certainly said again and again that if this law on a key did not go through Parliament, but I think today will be adopted, of course, a special law must be put in place immediately to regulate the status of family helpers, but today we are regulating this within the Long-Term Care Act and this is an important acquisition. I'll support this marriage. Once again, everything is not ideal, but in time, when the law comes to life in practice, we will be able to fix it where certain shortcomings will be detected. However, it is essential that we finally move away from stepping on the spot when it was done that I do not know how many different long-term care laws. We haven't moved anywhere. We have been working all the time on whether the law at the Ministry of Health or under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour is going back to health and back to work. So today, before we confirm this, I believe that we will all do a very good job together for those who need it or for those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u50	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u51	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues. It must be made clear that people with the adoption of this law will not come to a good long-term care of the dot. That's a fact, that's a fact. The fact is, too, that the Long-Terms Act is necessary, but really necessary, but not as it is before us today. This law solves practically nothing. Why? Because it will not be implemented and, of course, you will say good - bye to the authorities and leave the problems to the successors. Before I go to the content of the DSO. Yeah, you really took care of the price at the DSO only the pensioners got a Christmas present with a raise of almost 6 percent. It's your Christmas present to the retired. That's how you handled it. You took good care of the price at the DSO. In our client, we took this law seriously. We have met with the Minister, I regret that he is not with us today, because I must say that he has accepted practically all the comments that we are sharing with him at the meeting, so I have had questions for him and despite not telling him. Our main and basic problem with the comment or whatever you want is that the financial resources for the implementation of this law are not, dot. Article 132 provides that by 30 June 2025 a special law should be adopted to introduce the contribution. On my question why this is not today is that Nova Slovenija is most opposed to the introduction of a new contribution, because you know, they are not the best for the economy to accept a new contribution now before the elections. But what else did you do, what else did you do? You just didn't tell me how much this contribution was. The fact is that you are introducing a new contribution and we can agree that it is needed that money is not enough, but tell the people, tell the economy we do not know in this huge budget, in a huge amount of public finances to find money and we have placed the burden on one of the following governments, and that no New Slovenia is to blame for imposing citizens or the economy, because it also does not write here, we will really decide in the next government whether it will be the burden of people or it will be the burden of employers. It doesn't say anywhere. And that's not for, I'll say, small millions, we're talking about hundreds of millions here. But that's your way of doing things. Come on, let's give, or better yet, let's promise, let's promise, let's promise, and in the end, of course, none of this will happen. The point is that I myself have been accompanying practically until the end of Saturday's session of the committee, and it points to i, the respected Vice-President, but Desus' attitude towards this law. When, with all the comments of the pensioners, with all the comments of the pensioners' associations, you are pressing the, for, for, for, for a dot on i, for a dot on i, you are proposing that volunteers be included in this part. This is Desus' contribution to this law. Let's not guarantee the money yet, but let some work for free. [[…]] It's very good that volunteers are involved. And ZDUS has a top-notch project involving a lot of people and doing a lot of things that the country should do. But that is the most that we get from Desus, this, this amendment and all of these drawbacks, I can't say otherwise, you support in silence without one comment, but it's sad. So a lot of people turned on us, so I said that, a lot of people. But yes, you chose such a course. I'm sorry it's not the minister. I'm sorry you won't tell me who you are and how much you'll burden in the future. But the fact is, you're going to be burdened, but you're not going to be able to tell yourself how. This will be the task of the next governments. The fact is, from this marriage, people will have no better long - term care. It's paper, it's paper that won't do what it does, it's allowed what we need. In the Sab party we wanted to be constructive, frankly, we came to this, we wanted with the amendments to fix what could be fixed, but in this way on Saturday midnight by getting the amendment on the table, that actually before you vote, you don't even read well, that things that have long-term consequences, that's not the law for one day, and that's not the law for a million or two, that's the hundreds of millions and a lot of people who need services from this law or service that this law should define, and not even that. So sadly, well, in fact, it is sad that we are adopting such an important law that we would like to adopt it unanimously, unanimously, with which everyone can be satisfied and really solve problems in the long term. But you can brag, you can knock your fingers off of this marriage people, those who need it will have absolutely nothing. And of course it will feel when you're no longer in the government and you'll be sitting here again and pointing your finger at what all those who came after you don't know, can't, don't know. All these sins are yours, of course. We're going to save them, just like we're going to save them, and we're going to save them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The government representative, Mrs. Alenka Forte, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps I should answer the Members, Mrs. Bratusek. Article 48 provides for funding resources. And those resources that begin to be transferred by the implementation of this law in view of the degree of integration of needs are clearly defined. We are already collecting from compulsory health insurance around 3.8% for these long-term care and about 2.2% for services and assistance in particular. And now this will be collected on one sub-account. And it's not true that the funding isn't arranged. See, European countries have such content, some are entirely covered by the state budget. And what is wrong if the State decides to finance such important content also from the state budget. But these are the funds that taxpayers have collected and are only in one place that the state distributes. Why not, like supporting the payment of pensions, here too, the country supports and, I will say, stabilises in some way this funding. And the next time, one, two years will show whether the assessment was real, this means, time will show because the law could not be transplanted from another country. We're special and we're going to have to really see if the calculations were right in the next two years. No one can know what will happen in the future, how many more people will choose to be at home, what it will bring with it, or whether we will build many more homes. Well, that's why it's a very dynamic law. And what's important is that we accept it. And here I would point out the responsibility of all Members and all parties to adopt this law, because only when it is adopted and we start working on it will we be able to upgrade it. I don't understand. Look, all European countries are dealing with long-lived society, and we in particular. [[…]] In the next perspective, these social funds will make it possible for each country and Slovenia to apply for these projects and it is therefore also provided for under Article 48(5) for Slovenia to compete for such funds. The fact that it is not what you want it to be is that it is not an immediate tax or obligation, but it is not. [[…]] But also this, of course, will be necessary, but this is not the time, because this time when the law will enter into force and apply we have secured financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u55	I hope, Madam Secretary of State, we're talking about the same law. Article 132 of this Act states as follows: The special law on compulsory insurance for long-term care shall be in force by 30 June 2025 at the latest. No, perhaps not, it shall apply until 30 June 2025. This means that, as from 30 June 2025, the title of this Article is the application of a special law on compulsory long-term insurance. It's not a question or yes or no. I agree, the budget could cover that, yes. But no, you've decided that this will be a new contribution. You have decided that this will be a new contribution and you have decided that this will have to be the next government, because you do not hope to tell yourself. You do not hope to write here, we introduce a new contribution of 1.2, 1.5, 1.8%, which will be paid by workers or employers or half. That's it. That's what I'm telling you. Don't get carried away. Yes, there is more money in the budget for long-term care. Great, thanks, but you're making a new contribution. And tell that to the economy as well as to the people. That's a fact. And the minister's answer was, this government doesn't hope. Pika. You really don't hope if we didn't write it here. No, you write: the next government will have to accept it by 30 June 2025. There may be no more transfers, but there may be a budget, but perhaps not. If the next government does not introduce a new contribution by 30 June 2025, it will have to amend the long-term supply law you will adopt today. That's a fact, and those are your words. I mean, your law. That's it. Let's see, let's talk about the same things, you'll burden people, you'll burden the economy, either one or both. But the numbers are pretty high, a couple hundred million. I'm not gonna get stuck here, Article 132, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Thirteen panellists have been reported. The first one gets the word Mojco the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The law regulates long-term care as a public service, which means that it is necessary to provide public goods and services that are provided in the public interest by the State or the local community where it cannot be fully resolved on the market. In doing so, the primary objective is not to make a profit. So this is a public service. The Long-Term Supply Act will establish a network of institutions that will provide this public service, which will be primarily composed of public institutions in the public network as flexible support, and will also allow for private participation. A system of standards and a quality system will be established. As a legal text, the law is properly hierarchical, systematic and addresses all residents and residents of Slovenia who need long-term care. These are the elderly who cannot take full care of themselves and the disabled. In doing so, it must be said that maintaining rights already acquired for the disabled, blind and visually impaired, can maintain the current system that allows them to supplement and service, but can choose a new system that is estimated to be better for them, but choose to be left to them. The law establishes a National Council of Experts which provides professional points of reference and prepares strategic documents for the development of long-term care activities. Long-term care will thus be carried out in the institution or at home. Institutions will be housing units, care and nursing homes where a person can fit in according to his or her needs. The names of these homes indicate a number of needs. The establishment of these houses will be the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so this will be public institutions, but it will also be able to grant a concession for this to the private and lay down the conditions for obtaining the concession. The municipality will set up public institutions to provide care at home. In the event that the founder finds that a public service institution is unable to provide long-term care, he will grant a private concession under the conditions required. However, home care will also be provided by an independent entrepreneur or natural person who carries out the activity or additional activities on his own and who will also be able to do so on his own farm. The Minister of Health will issue a permit for the management of long-term care in the nursing home. The contractor will have to be entered in the records of the operators. Public institutions and concessionaires will form a public network and the private sector will complement it if necessary when there are not enough public institutions and they will all perform the public service described at the beginning of this debate. The law pays particular attention to quality by detailing the conditions for the provision of long-term care, the required human resources and spatial technical standards will also be the rule and the ability of the operator or the ability to perform all the required services will be assessed, language knowledge and impunity will be mandatory. All operators will be monitored for the implementation of long-term care, administrative, that is to say, a review of the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions and regular professional supervision of practical implementation. The administrative supervision will be carried out by the Minister for Social Affairs and by the Minister for Health. However, this task may also be delegated to the Medical Chamber. The work of the long-term care provider will be led by a long-term supply coordinator, who will also prepare an implementation plan and verify implementation and report on implementation. The point of entry for the acquisition of the right will therefore be the organisational unit of the Health Care Institute where the applicant or the guardian can apply for it. Long-term care will be financed from compulsory long-term care insurance for compulsory health and pension, state budget disability insurance, demographic funds, EU budgets, grants and other resources. Now, we need to know that, as the Secretary of State has said before, we need to see how many people can or will have to receive this long-term care. Only then will it be possible to calculate the amount of the mandatory contribution and until then funding from the budget as set out in the law will be provided. Nor can we wait for the next 20, 30 years so that people can make enough contributions. Long - term care is needed now. The Long-Term Care Act delays the implementation of the law so that the founders can also prepare all the conditions for the operation of institutions or concessionaires and do whatever is necessary to start activities in institutions. Complemented capacity or tender concessions if they do not have capacity in public institutions. However, the competent ministries will adopt the necessary rules resulting from the law. After 20 years of efforts by different governments and discussions with experts Slovenia finally receives a sustainable law that will allow for safe ageing. It is expected that it will be supported by all those who understand that it was not only the European Union's commitment but also, in particular, the people who created this country and deserve a safe age. All the comments we have heard up to the moment when the opposition – the left opposition – has obstructed the meeting of the Health Committee with all the comments we have heard today are flat, unargued and unfounded, indicate a lack of understanding of the law and I suggest that those who have made comments are really well-reading the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very well greeted representatives of the Ministry and also all colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that this preparation of this law has been going on for many, many, many, and many, many, many, many, many years before us today, a proposal for a law that appears to be supported further, despite the fact that, on the contrary, you are working hard to show that the law is not right. Above all, in today's treatment, people should have before them those who have been in need of assistance for a long time, which this law will bring, and in particular that due to the ageing of society in general, not only in our country, but in general, society is ageing and, in particular, in the developed world, and thus, the rise in various diseases and, above all, the rise in dementia. By having these diseases and the needs to do so, then some things can be solved at home at home, such a person who needs to provide home care to a well-known environment so physically and socially well-known that as many services as possible are actually available to him and thus reduces the cost of health care should be supported by this law today. As stated today, 23,000 people in nursing homes are about 23,000, and this number would also be reduced by the adoption of this law. With this, what you have warned today about lack of staff would at least soften this part a little. In addition, I welcome the law in view of the fact that those who are 18 years of age can benefit from the services, too, from the age of 18. This is a great gain, for usually these persons were left to themselves and their ingenuity or financial condition, and this will also be regulated by this law. It is said that this law is for people, for our citizens and citizens, and we go against them, and those who will have them before their eyes today will not be able to press the minus key, but will support the proposal. However, I would also like to draw attention to what has been said today and even in previous meetings, and this is repeated over and over again, it has been heard most by the SAB, and it has not been in today's debate, but in the past it has said and warned that we are retransmitting costs to the caregivers or their family members. Once again, you have raised the minimum wage in the government of Marjana Sarca in January 2020. And what happened then? That you overcame the costs of the caregivers, and then the caregivers had to pay more, and now this is the same thing that you did to this government at the time. Only then was the supply much bigger, at which time there was a supply in all public institutions, including in the field of education and others. So don't keep mantra repeating. I will certainly support today's proposal, and I am sure that, even with regard to other shortcomings that may seem insurmountable today, but also with regard to the funding that you would like to pack up once in a package, that they will also be resolved through the adoption of the law, and it is necessary to know that only with goodwill and common strength will we reach the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague Irgle was very personal about what she was doing well in this direction as a politician. But I have to say that we're still dealing with this topic at the time when colleague Eva was a minor. 1. 11. I started working officially in 1994 and at the time, as an assistant to young researchers in the Social Development Indicator, I explained what an ageing society meant, what policies we needed to do so. On the other hand, on December 6th, I think Irgle's colleague became a full-year-old. When I hear this, I don't know, I wonder if we've read the same marriage or if you've even read the law. The law has 154 articles, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has 40 pages printed and 41 pages. I went on a quick count, maybe I made a little mistake, to the 112th of 154th is a comment or maybe even more. In short, the three quarters of the law that was introduced by the Government was a comment. I was wondering at the meeting at the time, but somehow I didn't come to a substantive discussion, is this something, excuse me, a dead child born and accepted as such, or is this some child in a respirator who can still be helped. And here was some basic dilemma, and then somehow you didn't allow us to help. A colleague of Mojca's from SDS said that all those who oppose it are opposed to something. Mrs Škrynjar has insulted a number of people, a whole series of beautiful ladies, Mr from Karitas until I don't know who they have been dealing with since we have had independent Slovenia in this area, because such and other governments have not been able to regulate them. And I don't buy a story that this marriage has worked for 20 years, but that there have been a hundred variations. We've probably been bluffed with this. Because if 20 years were to be done and there were only 15 variants, such a scarab would not have come to the National Assembly. It's a difficult problem. I have to fix it. I agree with colleague Alenka Bratušek, you should have adopted such a law to be supported by everyone. Maybe two backbenchers or one would have been wrong, but one wouldn't. But I've been a Member since, when, on August 1, Bojana, is so, we, 2014, have not yet received such a bad marriage in the National Assembly, that is a fact. I can't help it. And we're not moral theologians like here, colleagues from SDS who discuss this issue, they know everything, they can even hang on the phone all the time, they're lying about us on Twitter. When we obstruct it doesn't mean we're just going home like some people think, and we're sneaking around in pubic areas. I've been following the session to the end. When we went out, there was no debate, like a poorly oiled voting machine you voted. Poorly oiled, of course, after so many hours of arguing into an empty one, which was cooked by the chairman, you have also made a mistake. There was also some proposal from the opposition. “Ha, ha, 2 for 8 versus”. You can go watch. Is this serious? Is this a serious relationship? No, such people do not deserve the city of a Member and the pay of a Member or a Member. And then I read "you have no idea." Jani has no idea? Well, I mean, he's been working on it his whole life. Medical brother, he's got a sign language license, a subroutine, he's been in the world, he's up, he's down -- no, he has no idea, right? Runaway Duck, go to Afghanistan. Well, this morning I taught this in architecture in Maribor. It's a topic that's the least sexy to students, the most boring to them in the first place. And then I tell them how many parents you have, something like me, yeah, you'll be here in 15 years. Old parents, you have someone up there. Yes, it is also a topic that runs very close to architecture, how to go urbanism, how architecture, how interior equipment, how gerontotechnology. How you're going to design a glass for someone who's falling muscle mass to grab it and drink it with two hands and not spill it, and I'm talking about maybe one of my parents, who's 80 years old. “No, you have no idea, you idiots, you're against”, up, down. You've forgotten to be people, how passionate you are about this sweet power, and now you're going to point your finger at us, and you're against us. And Mrs. Forte is reluctant to stress on us from the opposition, because she actually suffered here, according to her own words. I personally believe that long-term care begins in the prenatal phase. We have healthy years to live there to about 57, we're going to live a little over 80, and now, thanks to this government, especially men, this indicator has fallen for 3 years. A quarter of a century of unhealthy life awaits us if we do not change political culture, common culture, organizational culture and so on. Long-term care is also connected to me. Here I wrote RIS, SPS, IP. Those of you who know these shortcuts know what it is. From industrial policy to smart specialisation, research and innovation schemes. Yeah, it costs, we're gonna need money to do that, that's what we all know. But don't act like Vice President Simonovich now, yes, no one will pay the pensioners. Yeah, where do we get it? Where do we get it? You're gonna sell the thief? Will Janša sell where Kordiša sent the clinic in Australia? Of course, it will have to be financed. And then, if we go to see what it's like in the budget, according to your projections, if I'm right, 2022 105.7 million, 2023 164.3, 2024 285.3. And after this government is almost blowing up money, someone might have to say 2024, wait, and the pension fund jury won't fuck up anymore, because we have to give almost 300 million for long-term care. And forget about everyone under the age of 45. When they sniff them, they don't want to have regular jobs, they're flexible or I don't know what. I asked them today, they did. And then, if you're in the opposition, you'll be barking at how incompetent we are, over this, over this. Long - term care also means maximizing the autonomy of an individual’s life in a certain environment, but let us not get him anywhere. Long-term care also means, say, I talked to students today, they laughed at me a little, like in Sweden, when students and pensioners live together. Some serious consideration of housing policy. Not to be too long, there are about 60% of people on the DSO today. Now you're going crazy bragging about how you picked it up. Those who work the hardest are 22 euros a month, and they cannot buy coffee every day in Ljubljana with this lift. That's a fact. In Germany, the 60-year-old generation will retire, in a few years they will need 5 million people, not just Germany. We're going to have to put a lot more money into this because who's going to work for you for the minimum there. But that lady, who, if I ever get tired of it, well, I hope you're demented, will forget the nonsense that I'm living here right now, translate, but she'll be looking forward to a long-term supply. Will these ladies who work at the DSO have the resources for long-term care? Of course not. Even in Germany or, if you want, in Austria, few pensioners have their pensions to pay for their care and their homes. And that's why these systems need to be set up, yes. And of course, you want to get elected now, we've set it up, and in fact you haven't, you've brought a dead baby from the marriage to the National Assembly, now it's gonna be some exercise here, and the next government will have to deal with it. And yes, we'll have to pay. We who have very good wages will have to pay more for it. And the salary of each of us is paid, taught me by a unionist. But you know, as much as an employer, an employee, it's a little artificial fog that then fights on the ESS. And that, of course, will have to be decided and determined. And if we want this to work seriously, people who do it will have to pay a lot more. Of course, I personally like the idea that someone would go to the farm to live, that it would be some extra activity, but you are aware of what all this means in an architectural sense, in terms of care, in terms of someone, I don't know which one you need to teach to give you an injection and so on. So if you're serious about this, then stop being moral theologians. We had one of Cerar's moral theologians, and we had a headache. I'll stop at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State with fellow Members, the rest of the present, welcome. Now, at the outset, I have to say that the law that is before us, I think, is bad, gives empty promises, that many are contrary to itself, that when it is adopted, there is a grave breach of democratic procedures, which, by the way, are those that you have forgotten, a democratic procedure is the basis of democracy, so in a public debate that has not been, because the final version has not been seen by the public, so that we have the opportunity of Members and Members to cooperate with each other in a qualitative manner. I'm not gonna tell you what happened on Saturday because it's been said and chewed 100 times. What worries me more is that the working standards of the employees have been violated and the leadership of the National Assembly has compressed the order between the legs and is silent. That's what I really resent. So the law itself is bad. Now, in general, I would like to say that, of course, I am among those who realize that the oldest also need to be taken care of and that the solidarity system is not regulated. I have accompanied, I must say, I am fortunate to know Mrs Sonja Lokar, who has probably done the most in this area. I've been monitoring the genetics of different laws. And he also saw how many useful marriages were stuck because no one dared to say that just to collect a billion or two, a tax should be imposed. This is something that Slovenia does not hope to say, but without this money it is not possible to provide. I myself agree with what Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Forte, you are here when you say that we may not tell people clearly enough that the law itself is not intended to increase the number of beds in the homes for older citizens, because these beds would be if they remained part of the long-term care already functioning well enough in reality if we compared ourselves with other countries. It will be necessary, of course, to finance homes for older citizens in order to reach the standard we want. But basically we're thinking about what to do to help, in your material is a little over 50,000, in the first step of people who are supposed to be receiving long-term care. In fact, the profession says that it is necessary to count on 20% of the population. So 20% of, I think, a little bit more than 600,000, we're going to get to 120 thousand people or more very quickly, because that's another way. We are already connected with this when it comes to the first question that the cost projection is wrong, unless you have criteria that are not clear from the law, this is a serious error in how to get into the system so effectively led to one group of people who would want to and would have to enter the system not being able to enter the system. This is an extremely serious and difficult question at the moment, where everything can be broken down. The next question that actually arises to me is why it is such a fear of you to admit that long-term care is simply a need to be financed. Now of course one such way out you're looking for in saying yes, the state budget is underfunded by the health sector. This fully supports this conclusion. However, the problem of this finding is that, in fact, unless health funding from the State budget is substantially increased, only the health contribution rate will have to be lifted strongly in the coming year. I don't know if, since you probably remember what she said here, the representative of the Department of Health Insurance, when she had a trembling voice when she was talking about this law, she said something like this. While a significant part of healthcare activities are not carried out this year, especially at secondary level, since we do not know what the number will be at the end of the year, a finding could be similar to that of the last peak of the epidemic, but at some point 25 to 35% of the activities in state hospitals have not been carried out without being carried out and without funding to compensate for the balance of the health-care sector, there is no surplus. In fact, the increase in wages, as well as the number of employees, has led to the fact that it is not working for patients, that the health allowance is compensated. In fact, the essence of medical bills is not that they pay the health care staff. The essence of the medical bills, all because we pay is that people who are sick provide access to the health system. And at this point, the medical treasury no longer provides that. If the second year is to want and must, the only thing that is important in health care is to ensure that people get healthcare because it is their right from insurance and only this is important, nothing remains so important, it is first of all, you will see, and whoever else will be in the government, that it will already be necessary from the state budget to help people, not only to fund 60 million more for the supplementary programme, which now or so should go from private insurance reservations, but that the numbers will be somewhere between 300 and 500 million euros in order for the number of health services to be provided to such an extent that those who are currently in the system will be provided and those who are not provided should also be provided. That's 300 to 500 million. Therefore, today we say that we have a reserve, some percentages in the medical cash register are, of course, going, but in practice now to attack the health treasury when its basic activities are no longer able to finance means an attack on the stability of financing the health system. Slovenia cannot afford this. Similarly, but to a lesser extent it applies to the pension fund. There are small amounts that you are counting on, and in fact the amount of money is still slightly higher, and even more so is the solidarity of the state budget. I've actually calculated how much money it's gonna take. According to your projections, it will be necessary when the system works, 750 million, because I will tell you today, whoever will sit here, whether you will be Mrs Anja Bah Žibert or anyone else when we do not sit in there when we may meet somewhere in 2025, I will tell you that the number will then be closer to the number that the experts are talking about is 120 thousand. That 20% within the population, because that's how it is elsewhere. There's a number in here I think 57 grand or something. This in practice means that they will be eligible and legally defined rights, not to be 750 million, but to be a billion and a half. A billion-and-a-half is not a state budget, which could be given directly, but in particular, a Slovenian budget, which is in one way or another, if we decide to raise some new taxes by 3% or 4% and so on. I do not believe that this will be possible, so it will be necessary and it is also right to provide money through solidarity contributions. When I say solidarity, how do I understand that? Like compulsory health insurance, if you have more money, you'll pay in cash more because they're percentages. I don't see it as unjustly complementary, because everyone pays the same poorer and richer I understand it as typically solidarity, which is, as a percentage, if you have more, you'll pay more, but now you don't accept it and you'll talk in the middle of it, and our people don't really deserve it. But I'm gonna end up like this. We've tabled quite a few amendments today. The problem was that we didn't really know what you accepted on Sunday morning, and I believe that MPs and Members did not, because when we were watching this on TV, some amendments were flying, I suppose they were written by people who were severely violated by labour law, and they were employees in this National Assembly. When I'm talking about grave violations, I hope that some inspector is listening to the National Assembly overrun the labour laws, that you're not ashamed of everything. [[…]] If the National Assembly has the right to overpower its employees, we are not Members and Members of this legislation, then everyone else has the same right and if we are not sanctioned or those who have done so, then no one else must be sanctioned. I'm interested in what law allows employees in the National Assembly to work 18 hours, and that's what I'm really interested in. But if it's not allowed or allowed by everyone or anyone. We have tabled some amendments to the problem of actually flying today, but we do not yet have a response to the Law-Legal Service, but I assume that the first four pages of 41, which talk about non-consistency, about risks, and if you look at the re-examination and request of the Health Insurance Office, which is attacked, we get to you what I said at the beginning. A good purpose, a bad marriage, and not an indirect attack on a medical cash register that you can destroy. Thanks for letting me talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word to prepare Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u65	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Now caring for the elderly is not only our responsibility, but it is also the growth of social development, responsibility, and empathy. It is a reflection of respect for the people who cared for the development of this country, the people who worked to build Slovenia, who, in fact, made sure that a young country was able to find and maintain its space under the sun 30 years ago despite all external aggressors. The Comprehensive Long-Term Care Act was put on the table by this Government, even though we listened to the left governments for years as they cared about people and how social security at the age placed them first. That's not true. The left governments took care of only part of the elderly, the part that is also their elective body. On everything else, and on all those who worked hard in the factory and after 40 years behind the running lane or on the standards, they forgot. Let us look at the key goals that this government has pursued in the drafting of the law. The establishment of a single entry point with the aim of centralising health, social protection and long-term care information as much as possible and making the procedures for the beneficiaries as simple as possible. The introduction of a single eligibility assessment with a view to uniting the assessment method and consequently accessing comparable rights by beneficiaries with comparable needs. The introduction of new services to enable beneficiaries in all environments, both at home and in the institution, to access comparable services and to provide services to strengthen and maintain independence and e-services, to establish effective quality control and security of long-term care services, and to provide a higher share of co-financing of rights in the area of long-term public care, which means that the individual pays less for the necessary services and is also planned to reduce the financial burden on local communities. The specific news I want to highlight and which have a significant impact on the quality of life of the elderly in Slovenia is a nursing home, a new organisational form of long-term care in the institution. It is envisaged that those eligible for the most difficult and difficult restriction of autonomy and the need for integrated and constant health care and demanding medical procedures. The nursing home is provided for a category of beneficiaries who, due to inadequate responses to their needs, remain in hospitals and hold capacity for hospital treatment. The bill also provides for long-term care at home, in an institution or through the receipt of a cash receipt. However, a special way of carrying out long-term care is by the provider of a family member in combination with partial institutional care, which applies to beneficiaries in the fourth and fifth categories of long-term care entitlement. Article 14 of the bill provides for the following sets of long-term care services, namely basic daily tasks, support for daytime support, health care, basic daily tasks, services for strengthening and maintaining autonomy and e-services. This law is the first to define the concept of long-term care in an integrated manner and to ensure that long-term care is provided to all people who need it. The law provides for all the elderly and all those who will become as safe and carefree as possible as possible the maintenance of assets at the age or autumn of life. By adopting this law, we will make it possible for all Slovenians and Slovenes to realize that they will not be left alone and without health care and assistance at their age, but that we, as a society, will take care of them and thus return to them all the efforts they have made in our country, society and economy. It is a system law in which we will ensure that each elderly person spends his or her last years without unnecessary hardships or shortages. By adopting this law, we will also prove that we are a society that is mature for responsible social policy and that we are a society that appreciates the basic cell on which the people are built, and this is the family that the pillars are exactly the ones who need it. These are our parents, our old parents, and today I will support this marriage, for them, for you and for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is Yuri Leprechaun, prepare Moica Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u67	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues and everyone's nice greetings! I will not argue that this law is a distasteful one, as many claim, given that, and even in my former parliamentary group, it means a great deal to me, and from this point of view, I have already been at an interested working body for work, family, social affairs and disabled people to say why it was necessary that, given that the regular meeting was scheduled in December, we should have given it to an extraordinary meeting. [[Incomprehensible]] At the time, I said that it was impossible when we received 41 pages of ZPS comments and 154 articles, after you started reading this story, you would lose yourself in the end. Now I'm going to say that in one day or two days, a person can read, or find out if it's okay or if it's bad, so from this point of view I'm disappointed that I'm going to have a hard time supporting this law because I can't say that it's what we want, at least personally, that it's not. In short, I don't know, but I do know that these people who have done this have certainly invested a lot of energy and a lot of knowledge, but I would only point out here why the public concerned, especially those who are interested in it, have knowledge, have experience working in, say, the community of social institutions, have not been more involved in this story, because a lot of it could be said, because the long-term care that is now the law on the table is already being implemented, as it is being carried out through all of these activities carried out by social institutions. We've calculated this, say, 25 thousand people are already involved in this story, and they've been given some kind of long-term care. Now, whether it's under this law or under another law, in short, the state makes sure that it's already running. The next thing that really bothers me is that local communities weren't involved. Since I have been mayor for twelve years, I know what's going on here, and in fact the state can't now, it's either us or the legislator to impose some additional burden on local communities, or even a burden, if it says so, but I only know that we should be involved in this story. The local community must definitely participate in these people, in these elderly citizens or in people who deserve to have long-term care, as we can see that it has been written in the law since it was 18 years old. I agree. All people need long-term care one way or another. so that from this point of view I would expect the local communities to be very actively involved in this story. This is because, at this time, I have received many of these letters, comments, all these associations of congregations that say that they are not aware, that they do not know what it will be like, in short, a lot of strangers are in this new law, but I am also saying that we have been working for 20 years and we have not done anything, but this argument that we will, now we are taking something to accept, and I cannot help it. That's a fact, because then I would be, I'll say, contrary to my will and according to my experience, and this law leaves a lot behind, it says, we have so many strangers that we don't know where to give them anymore. Everyone's talking about this virus. Sure. The source is very important and it is not a problem for me personally to say that the country has to pay for the story from the budget. Actually, why not? It is only in the long term that we need to know that if we say so, then it will be important that some part of the pension contribution and health care will go for this purpose. So there's going to be some money missing again. As an employer for 40 years, I am also particularly concerned about this, as we as an employer are now, but ha, last June 2025 we will introduce new contributions. I mean, this is for the employer and for the employee a story for which we find it difficult to take forward, which will be. And what they're saying is that the new government will have to do it if the law is to be adopted as it is, it says, 30. 6. 2025 will have to make a new contribution to cover this story as regards long-term care. These are all strangers who, say, run away from me so that I can support this story. But you know that in our Group of Unbounds in the first reading, we did not oppose the law because we expected to be able to do so within a month, because one month is a period in which you can change or at least influence some amendments. But now the amendments, and so was I, but I watched at home on TV, instead of being at home, through, all the time, and I was very sad, and I was very angry at myself as the Members, that for the first time, to obstruct, for the second time, that those who are preparing this would not accept some facts, in short, I think it was just this reason that we wanted to bring the story to an extraordinary session if in December, believe me, that a large majority would have been able to reconcile it to me and then, with a larger word, we would have pressed this button for. Otherwise, I said that I appreciate this job because it is not a little work, but you cannot expect us to be legislators, Members within one day, in two days to process this story with the amendments, and we will say yes, and that is fine now. It just doesn't work that way. And this is also important, let's say that the most important conclusions and solutions to this proposal are the law or this government translates into sub-laws and what happens next. But I say that with the existing resources, with the existing experiences of certain social institutions in this area, we should build a story from here and add some other stories to it. Not that we're going to go new now and then we're going to have a hard time knowing who now deserved what these calculations methodology are, I mean, these are all things that are unclear. But then, when, let's say, the marriage comes into force, those who are in the nursing homes have under that normal story, whether they'll be un-welcome or how, I mean, what we're going to do here, we should already know. So it's because one is care, the other is long-term care, and the fourth is that a person who has a lot of money can pay and stay in another system. And that's what I'd say now that we, I think, all of us, are doing this to base and build the prices of this supply or some general household care on the public supply system. I agree, but we should be aware that public care is now inappropriately cheaper than the concessionaire. But why is it cheaper? Because we have older houses now owned by the state, but if we have to build new ones, the price will be exactly the same as for the new concessionaires. So here it is again, I think the calculation of how much this country is going to cost is going to collapse. Because you need to know, if we're going to be assuming, I've always advocated as a person that older people should be at home and if it's only possible for them to wait at home or survive their age. And that is also what Europe is talking about, and I think we have to do it this way. So I can see that something in this direction is being done, including help at home. In short, even if they are not in their homes, people can be provided at home. Then I start thinking again, okay, and now those who are at home have, say, 1.2 wages if they care about one, if it's 2, 1.5, if I know it. In short, this is inappropriate for people who care for older citizens in their homes. It's an anomaly again. Because now I can't do everything because there are so many laws, so many articles that I don't want to be smart, because in short, it's a law that's made by a lot of people. So we who are dealing with this now, we just took it out because we think it's important. This seems very important to me that now we who are in the National Assembly should, in these stories, which concern all of us, say that the law applies to the ages of 18, should really make sure that we try to be at least here united. [[Incomprehensible]] I therefore reiterate that I find it really strange that the government or the coalition has put this at an extraordinary meeting. If it were in December following a regular procedure, believe me, even when we are Members, we would have been able to get through it more easily and perhaps some other amendment would have been successful. Now I think it's almost meaningless. What amendments should we table if no amendments are accepted? I mean, it's like again, I can't do something to work, and on the other hand, it doesn't have any effect. So maybe that's my good side or that's my bad, anyway, but I'm not going to write the amendments to bring you down. It's irrelevant, isn't it? So I think we have to make sure that any marriage now, if adopted, will be adopted. All we know is that in the future, the next decision-makers or governments will have to resolve this, it is true that new contributions will be made. And that awaits any government, if this law is to be passed, they will have to be adopted. And if this is not accepted, then the current coalition will be the opposition, which will, in fact, not matter, but always oppose. Logically, it's a job, some thing goes or doesn't go. In short, we have a lot of strangers. And I would also say, let's say you know that in the local community and those we have the lower Podravje, the upper Podravje, Koroška, all operate these actions project Older for the elderly. It works, and I'm even glad that it's my former fellow Members who tabled it, but that's inappropriate, that's the thing that's already going on. It's a thing that runs and that's people who were volunteers. We have even there in our local community in that environment written exactly the same project on, I think, on one of the 30 pages where it says what the purpose is. So that's the whole point of caring for the elderly, just like it says. And in no case will the elderly care for the elderly who are in their homes. It is said that the elderly care for the elderly, those who are at home, go to visit them, drive them to the store, or take them to the doctor, briefly, and to socialize. This is a basic task, and we have also received in Europe a prize that can only, I will say, thank all the Slovenians that we are doing this or the older people, so that it is nothing wrong, but it is one of the stories that is already running, and in fact that we write it specifically in such a law is nothing wrong, but that is why we will not burden these people. So in this amendment, my colleagues wrote that it would be education, I agree, but these people older, they will not deal with the long-term care of the people who need it, because these are other stories. [[Incomprehensible]] And I would only fill one, we know that a personal assistant, now that he is not in this law, is in this law, but there are a lot of things that are about to be heated up now, in short, one will now either go to personal assistance or go to long-term care, here we should demarcate and find some common points that are or are not and which are different and from this point of view to determine whether this law is to be placed in the Long-Term Care Act or whether it is right that we have this law individually. [[Incomprehensible]] These are things, regardless of what we say now, that we will take care of the people who need this care from 18 years on, and I also think that these people who benefit from personal assistance are also part of this story, and I think it is right to find a common denominator and try to find it. I'm basically disappointed, sad and angry again, in one word, to hurry and what we've now achieved with this one month, that we've moved forward, that it's hard for me to squeeze in because I know how and only to adopt the law and we'll say one hook to make this vote just so I won't squeeze in for. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u68	Thank you, too. You have the floor. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. 15 years before I entered state policy, I heard that the Long-Terms Act would be passed. Now, after almost 20 years, I think it's really time for this law to be passed as soon as possible that after 20 years it may not be necessary to delay. I am not saying that the law is ideal, it is not ideal, it is not perfect, but it is the first step that is absolutely necessary, because whenever a law is adopted today or later, they will start to introduce themselves gradually, never any contractor, as in this case the Health Insurance Office will start to perform the service overnight. And so with the adoption of the law, as some people say it won't bring anything new, nothing will change, nothing will bring anything, it's not true. The Health Insurance Office will have one year to prepare, which is necessary for their time to be given, then immediately will help family assistants, current family assistants, who will become caregivers of family members, the provider of the family member, because Article 145 of this Law speaks of their payment rising immediately, and here I cannot agree with the interlocutor that 1.2% of the minimum wage is very high, because these providers of their family member's home care 24 hours a day, cannot then be compared with the employee's salary in the homes because their worker is 8 hours a day. So I believe that some compromise has been found. It is true, however, that these people are now working for €580 net and that the contribution that the congregation has so far covered is being made to some. So that I think that I was also a member of the Commission for Petitions and we have repeatedly discussed how to help family helpers and by adopting this law we are really helping them right now. Then, as I said, gradually these rights are introduced, with 1. 1. 2023, now with the amendment this deadline will be set, people who are included in nursing homes will in fact almost all have lower allowances, that is, they themselves or their relatives, why, because these social services will be covered by the Long-Term Care Act, so they themselves will pay only stay and food. This, of course, is considered to be a home for each person to take care of his own household and his own food. And here's what's meant by 20%, 25% for some of you who say they will, the opposition said earlier that they would just fall out of the Long-Term Care Act. I am sure that no one will evict them from their homes for pensioners, that they are not meant in this sense, but those who are in the present first care do not need the right other services as they actually need only stay and food and wash them will hide it themselves, this will not be covered by additional social services because they do not actually need them. So this problematic is actually the whole opposition as well as a number of other stakeholders. I would say this now in the law clearly states that until it is adopted by the Long-Terms Financing Act, that the difference will cover the budget with a real manka will cover the budget. As far as the financial effects of the laws are concerned, you are not as long in politics as you are in any other, but I have so far found that in every law these financial effects are both more determined over the thumb. If you remember the financial effects of the Personal Assistance Act estimated out there to about 8 million now are somewhere at 80, 90 so that now if they are or are not written there I can say almost as much as I think actually. So until the law is passed, they will be hiding from the budget in such a way that there is no fear. Now whether there will be a contribution or not, if I tell you the truth, I have been in one of the two governments before now in the other, so in both coalitions I really think that we are all aware that something will probably have to be contributed in some way, or that it will be a contribution or something else, but, as said in these first two years, when only certain services will be provided, it will also be possible to make a more realistic assessment of how much additional financial effects will be. If I recall in previous versions, however, because the very content of the law's version is not on the table, the content that has been done in previous years continues continuously as some of the experts at the Ministry of Health are also the same, so that it is not true that the law is now completely inadequate and inconsistent. You said one of them was unconstitutional. I don't know the contrary to the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court, as far as I know, doesn't know that you're prejudging everything here. I am also a member of the Health Committee myself, and I was present on Saturday. I can only comment on this we have actually almost been forced to vote at ten o'clock to continue, because those who accompanied the committee have seen that the opposition deliberately stalled until 22 p.m. non-stop alone, and we have not come to the floor. But at the time they had a plan because we heard you, you had already agreed before it was ten, so if they vote an extension we will obstruct. So now it's not just the guilt on one side. What you're saying is that we broke some rules and it's actually the fault of both sides. If the opposition did not delay so much, then we would not have to go into this option either. However, I would really like to thank the Law-Legal Service and all the experts who have also submitted, in accordance with the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, all the amendments that were necessary for any more, we have indeed opened more articles just so that it would not be too closed so that until today's session, then, of course, anything else will be necessary, then by the third reading, we will also prepare them. I believe it can be further improved, which will be necessary. But we can't get to the perfect point, but as every law has been said, we have already corrected the Personal Assistance Act in this mandate in such a way that it is possible that it will also be necessary, but as I said after 20 years, I think it is high time to take the first step. If we can't do that, then I don't know why we're here. In deinstitutionalisation, I have not heard for how long, years and years, it has been said, in fact, that since the Law on Long-term Care is said to be, and is not as true as it was, that it has been said by Mr Sitar that the law brings nothing new, no new services, answers the most important questions and that the most important questions are therefore new homes and jobs. New homes are not the most important questions, because the most important issues are the same services that do not actually exist at all. As early as 2014, the European Commission has called on us to adopt a statutory law on long-term care, because our legislation is not transparent, the rights are different, the different levels of the points are, different assessment procedures, we have too much formal care in institutions, this is mainly too much of a health care and that we do not have enough access in all regions, so access to these services by region is different between urban and rural, and these equally formal services in the community are not well developed. And above all, here will be the emphasis that these should be developed most in the first year, as I said, I have listed which services will enter into force immediately and will be later. But the sooner the law is passed, the sooner all these services can develop. We have already heard from the Court of Auditors today that it has already said in its opinion that Slovenia is not, in Slovenia, adequately cared for those who, because of their age or mental and physical disability, need the help of others. So I will definitely support the marriage. Like I said, it's not ideal, but it's the first step. And as we like to say or how, that proverb says, a better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a roof. We've been waiting for this pigeon for 20 years, and we don't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u71	Yes, thank you very much. What's most problematic is the things that aren't there yet if I paraphrase my colleague in front of me. Look, two misunderstandings of the existing law I read in your debate. One is that the most problematic are the things that are now and are problematic and do not work, and this existing law does not eliminate them. The other thing is that things that are not yet in the field of long - term care do not actually apply this law. This is not now, once again, the matrix of the opposition Member, but a direct finding of the Community of Social Institutions. They say in their position, the law does not introduce any new services. Moreover, they note that 25% of the population or residents in nursing homes will fall out of the long-term care system as proposed by law. So we have the main problem, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the existing, in the existing long-term care field. And the problem we've encountered in recent years was this one. Whenever we have pointed out the problem in the existing regulation, let's say if you remember the double charge to cut your nails and so on and so on, we have always come up with the answer, wait, this problem will solve, we will not frown on it under the law, this problem will solve the Long-term Care Act. We now have the Long-Term Care Act here, which places solutions on some law, a non-existent law in the future and ironically on sub-laws. So, look, we still have 12,000 people waiting for a bed in the nursing homes, we still have 50% mania among the employees. And these are the key issues. Now, what are the problems of things that aren't, and things that the government isn't planning, and I don't know, and it's a very, very, very, very supposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u73	The Honorable President. I don't think it was a replica at all, but it was a debate and a controversy with my opinion, because the replica is when, if the gentleman wasn't properly understood, as far as I know it. So I'm asking you if you'll allow me a replica of the replica, if that was a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u74	Look, Madam Ambassador. You know that replication is not possible. But we're going to open the application again, because I can see there's another interest. And you'll probably be able to come by and tell that to the gentleman. Please proceed with procedure, Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u75	Yes, Madam Vice President. The replication shall be exceptionally possible if it is authorised by the President in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. So please, if you consider this possibility and give this opportunity to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u76	Your Honor. I know this article and I know this possibility, but since we are going to open another circle, it can also be expressed in a different way. Thank you very much. Yeah, word no, sorry. [[…]] Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman. And I ask you to warn the debater that he has abused the replica and in his replica he has disputed with her colleague Mojca Žnidarič. Please remind him that he has the opportunity to apply, like the other Members and Members, to apply and wait for the line and then to discuss, as he has discussed now. And please warn him that he abused the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u78	Madam Member, look, I think we're all adults, so I won't warn anyone. The topic on the agenda today is so important that you expect us to be more respectful about what has been coming about for the past 20 years, and therefore we have some rule that the first amendments will open up a general debate, and that is why I also allow a broad debate on why it is here to express our opinions and concerns. The Secretary of State, Cveto Uršič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the last, in the debate I have heard several times a comment about what will happen to nursing homes, how it will be, everything will be sold out, how public institutions will become smaller and smaller. [[…]] Please allow some information. In 2021, 2022 and 2023, so much will be invested in public institutions from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as has never been done in recent years. A few days ago, you adopted a budget complemented by Members and Members, a budget balance for 2022 and 2023, and in 2022, for investments in homes will be allocated about 38 million and a half euros, in public institutions. [[…]] Similarly, in 2020, €21 million was provided for short-term accommodation in homes and for day centres, including in public institutions alone. A call for European funds, from the React Fund, has recently been completed, with 93 million to raise quality in homes. Unfortunately, most of the homes were built in the 1970 ’ s, in the 1980 ’ s, talking about public institutions, so there are 4 or 5 more beds or 3 beds in them. If we want to ensure quality and a safer and healthier life, we need to redesign these homes, modernise them, and to that end these resources will be designed to be just one or two more beds in our homes, and so there is absolutely no purpose not to the institution, so break the system that has been in place for many years. A brief answer is that those who are now, this has now been mentioned twice, who have the first category, will fall out. They'll be re-evaluated if they come into the system, they'll come in, they'll get long-term care, but if they don't come in, that means they don't need them, but that doesn't mean they'll be thrown out of the room, out of the house. Absolutely not. Let's see what's in the marriage, 80% of the beds for long-term care, the rest are for the rest of the residents, and they can stay in the home and, of course, they'll only pay for the hotel part. It's also a slightly misleading information that there are 12,000 people waiting for beds, here are people who report at the same time in 2, 3, 4, 5 homes. When the number of beds in the homes is sufficient, yes, of course, this number will be significantly smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We are still discussing the articles and the amendments tabled and Article 2 and the amendment of the left-wing Group. The word has Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u81	Thank you for your words, the President of the Long-Term Supply Act is not a pigeon on the roof or a sparrow in the hand as we have heard in previous discussions, but is in fact a bite that pecks the liver. The coalition has made an effort to push him through the parliamentary procedure on his neck, on his nose, regardless of the victims in the process. Even if this means legislative rape, they are not disturbed, and we are sitting here today at a plenary session. The reason why the coalition behaves this way toward this unfinished marriage is substantive. With this law, virtually everything is wrong before I go to the concrete provisions, even to the amendment we have tabled, to Article 2 of the law we in Levica, first of all purely substantive, conceptually, what we are talking about when we are talking about long-term care. First of all, it is a question of how we will take care of our oldest generation in the autumn of their lives, as well as a formulation that has already emerged in the debate. A way of providing them. Or whether we are talking about classic home care and home care, here are the intergenerational centres, how to combine kindergartens, schools with homes of older citizens, and how to involve programmes such as the current programme Older for the elderly and all other forms of interfacing. The second part of the issue of long-term care is how we will finance all these services and infrastructures. The answer to the first and second questions does not give or answer to a financial question, however much the substantive answer to what older people’s care should look like, but is either passed on to regulations or lower sub-laws or extremely poor in this law, not only in content, but also completely confused, poorly defined and so on. I will first hold back on the issue of financing long-term care. So this law, which we have been waiting for 20 years, has not entered the parliamentary procedure because no coalition has been able to unite how long-term care should be financed. One way or another, an additional contribution, some additional source, will be required. In Levica, of course, we insist that these contributions should be for long-term care, as should all other taxes, progressive and solidarity. That we will not accidentally receive another privatised form of funding as we already know it in supplementary health insurance. Those who have more should also contribute more. As far as possible, all forms of income, not just pay, and a variety of rental rents, corporate ownership dividends and so on, should be used as a basis for the separation of these contributions. Without this, we will again be guilty of injustice, where workers in this country, who already have so little, will be hanged for many costs, and rich people will again go to such unjust treatment. However, this substantive issue may be a question of a second order, because this law does not have any financial resources at all. No, zip, hope, zero. It simply puts the burden of financing long-term care into the budget. Which in itself would not bother me if, at the same time, we also had a tax reform in hand to provide this budget with additional sources of funding with some progressive taxes, but the opposite is happening. A few days ago, we adopted budgets for the next two years, which have annual holes in them, amounting to 800 million per year, on the basis of tax breaks and relief for the richest. From the owners of the properties they rent to the best wages. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of budget exactly will be able to finance long-term care in such tax reforms? This budget that you now cleave at the expense of tax breaks for the rich? This same budget, which you finance from recklessly indebtedness, is to cover the hole that you create with the tax burdens of the rich. And you know, to end this financial issue, no matter how the lawyers of this long-term supply law are now talking about the budget making its contribution, we do find in this article 132, which speaks of the need for long-term care being financed from the contribution. Just explain and define what this contribution should look like, how much it should be paid, how much the contribution to the individual’s income will be linked to its capital and so on. In short, bluff, clean bluff. The fundamental reason why the law on long-term care did not even exist in the parliamentary benches and we have been waiting for it for 20 years is still untitled, which leads me to the second half of this law. So, the very content that we can find in it. To begin with, we can define the Long-Term Care Act by the way the elderly are cared for, as a law for the privatisation of safe age. This is a law by which the government, with the support of its coalition, would like to provide public funds, either budgetaryly or through contributions to the financing of private enterprises in the care of the elderly. And they don't even hide it. This is directly reflected in Article 2 and then in Article 3, which states who will be able to participate in this long-term care and be eligible for public funding. Practically all possible legal persons, including independent entrepreneurs. That makes all the alarm bells sound to me. Ladies and gentlemen, the home of the elderly is an independent entrepreneur. Supported by public resources, with public finances. Of course you can't. The public network as defined in this law is in fact not a public network. Among other things, it cannot be that, unlike the other areas we have, we let these definitions be problematic or that I understand them as problematic, that neither the concessionaires nor the pure private parties can distinguish them. As far as the drafters and advocates of this law are concerned, this is all a public network. Every d.o.o. Every stock company every foreign corporation every esp that's all the public network, we're gonna hang everything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u82	My friend Kordish, I suggest you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u83	on public finances [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u84	to begin the debate on the amendment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u85	this is the debate on the amendment, [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u86	It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u87	If we knew our amendment and our marriage [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u88	I'm sorry, it's not. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u89	This is an amendment debate. [[…]] Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u90	I don't want you, just the amendment and the article I'd like you to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u91	our amendment [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u92	Because the general debate was held. You obstructed Friday's board meeting where we could clear up these matters. Now we have the content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u93	We have a content that you presidents don't know, so you're interfering with my debate completely illegal, so [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u94	My friend, good enough, and I'm asking you not to use this kind of observation anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u95	I also ask you if you conduct the session properly and allow me to proceed. [[…]] This amendment speaks of long-term care being defined solely for public institutions and financial resources only for the actual public provision of long-term care services. I will not allow anyone to deny me the right to debate and to steal time from this title. In short, this is a fundamental beginning of the law on long-term care, seeking to privatize the care of the elderly no questions ask. What does that mean? We can already see in the current system of care for the elderly, which we know, the homes of the elderly. On average, private homes are one-quarter more expensive than public homes. Why? This is because the cost of investing in infrastructure in public homes is borne by the State, which is right for the social state, and the private sector pays not only the cost of infrastructure but also the expense of profit. This will only be more, the long-term care law will give them additional wings because their services and investments will cover them from public sources. It is possible to go into business at the expense of the elderly who wait in rows for their beds in the homes of the elderly, who are desperate, and you can set them up at any cost, and they will have to pay it if they are not able to be helped by their relatives, and the congregation budgets will come in. I mean, it's a living disaster. As far as this disaster is concerned, it's in the marriage. Since we have not been the only ones since the beginning of the procedure in Levica, we have been alerted to this issue of privatisation of the care of the elderly, today the Government is going forward with a roofing argument, yes, but what about home care, as we also define home care, and we reward with a raise of family assistants and redefine everything into home care providers, etc. To begin with, home care in relation to the costs of institutional care is actually dripping into the sea. First of all. It's the other way around. All of this government species, which is teaching us here today and representing the Long-Term Care Act, could have heard of the so-called home of the older citizens of the fifth generation. What does that mean? This means that we do not have the classic hotel-patient care at the home of older citizens as may be typified today, but it is more similar to an institutional fence that provides care in a community that provides care in protected homes, to care at home, to combine some common capacities, such as kitchens and professional knowledge, and through this expertise it also provides quality care for the guardians, regardless of how intensive the level of care they need as one and two, regardless of where such care is provided. Whether it is done at home address or in some more classic hospital form at home of older citizens or it is protected by apartments, it is a third, etc. The central element of such a fifth generation home as is being built today or should be built is that community care is also supported by some public infrastructure, that quality is guaranteed, and that the public is rationally organised by pooling capacities where possible and where appropriate. Does the government law on long - term care establish, define, and save anything like this? No, no, no. No, no, no. He draws a fairly harsh line between classical institutional care, sets up home care, and places home care on family members, a zealot who lives at home. In such a way that the family assistants themselves, or certain organisations, who have participated in committee discussions in the last week, have defined this supply solution at home as slavery, since these domestic providers will be limited, among other things, to 21 days allowed, in order to be able to use it for only 7 days a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u96	Comrade Kordish, I suggest you talk about Article 2 and the amendment, we will do the rest, and you will be able to speak with other articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u97	I suggest you don't interrupt me or jump into words. All your Members have discussed everything long and wide.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u98	Please don't talk about the collage, but I don't know what else it is about, but about the content of what you've proposed to this article. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u99	That's what I was talking about. We also need to know the context as defined by the debaters from your party, the president, on the SDS, and that didn't bother you for a moment. Just 'cause I'm the one with the word, you're jumping into my word, you're gonna fight with me, you're gonna make a barn, you're gonna fight with me, you're gonna fight with me, you're gonna make a barn, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u100	Dude, that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u101	In short, you're raping the debate, just like you're raping the proceedings. If I move against the conclusion. In short, what is defined in the law is very poorly defined. As far as institutional care is concerned, push it into the hands of privatisation, deliberately and consciously, as far as home care is concerned, it places it on family members without ensuring the actual quality of care and that care is provided in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act, that people have signed regular employment contracts, and that behind them is some basic public solidarity infrastructure that should underpin the whole concept of long-term care. None of this law does, it has only one fundamental purpose, that is to make the hook “see us, we have written the Long-Term Care Act” and another fundamental purpose for this long-term care to be privatized where and as possible. But as far as we can, just the last thing we can hope for from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and what the political will we can see at the last raise in the salaries of staff in health and care, where Minister Cigler Kralj cannot even find 16 million euros to cover the raise of caregivers, he would rather place this on the burden of the caregivers. So from this same government, from these same people listen to how the budget of the Republic of Slovenia should finance long-term care and how the payments will be lower, go away, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We have not heard much about the amendment, nor have we heard much about the article. I'll read it. 2. Article 2 of the basic principle on long-term care, first paragraph of the mandatory long-term care insurance and other financial resources, and on the principle of universality, solidarity, equality, shall be guaranteed to insured persons the right from long-term care. The second paragraph, long-term care is organised and carried out in the public interest in a way that enables insured persons to have equal availability, accessibility, availability and quality of long-term care services, and to this end you have tabled an amendment to the new third paragraph in the Legislature Group – the rights of compulsory long-term care insurance are irresistible personal rights which cannot be transferred to another and not inherited. That's this article. This has nothing to do with Minister Brickler King and other things and so on. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Comrade Jani Janko Möderendorfer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is good that you have read Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 and I can claim that this is a very broad article, especially because it speaks in the second paragraph “which enables insured persons to have the same availability, accessibility, accessibility and long-term care, which means that it is linked to at least Article 15 of this Act, which is important to mention them in this article. And this amendment, which has been tabled, speaks of a third chapter, which essentially gives a significantly greater point, not only to refer to how these rights will be accessible, but above all to try to arrange for it to be in the public interest and this is the most important, the whole matter and here I wonder whether it is really in the public interest, as this law has been established in the way it has a problem, but this is that if we can want to enforce these rights, the problem of long-term care in the implementation itself, in the time dimension, in the financial implementation, in the inconvention of the following concepts, criteria, the network, the abolition of rights, and what is the most terrible problem is that we have all the elements and extensions of perkerisation and, as a result, privatisation. The legislative and legal service has already made it very clear from the outset that even under this Article, if we wanted to take it seriously, we could first resolve other problems, which is, unlike my colleagues and colleagues who discussed before me some two hours ago, to mention the following issue, namely, that it is only a matter of minimal nomotechnic corrections. I'm sorry, no offense, the Law-Legal Service has indeed mentioned nomotechnical corrections, but it has mentioned something else, which is much more important, and we should be all very afraid of what is actually going on with this law, a violation of the rule of law, it has very clearly defined in the whole paragraph the representative of the Law-Legal Service has been on the committee for 15 minutes just talking about this and giving reasons and the fact that this law is not good. Then the next thing that was, of course, the Law-Legal Service warned of the suspension of the legislative function. Why is that important? In fact, the proposaler, the government, here both ministers are involved because they both cooperated intensively and ultimately the whole government, provided for a huge number of elements and tasks and competences to be carried out by the Regional Minister and are not foreseen by the law at all. And that is why it is difficult for us today to talk about how we can be insured persons who allow equal availability, accessibility and availability and quality of long-term care services, if these elements are not even in law. They're not even there. If we look at Article 8, which speaks, this is Article 8b of the Government Act, the following is very clear: what are the elements of the law if we want to take the law seriously, and here is the illegality. It must include the consequences of the financial consequences of the budget and other public funds by means of a way of ensuring that they do not, administrative consequences, including information aspects, economic consequences, especially for SMEs and the competitiveness of enterprises, social impact assessments and impact assessments in relation to development planning documents. But before that, it is very clear: the draft law - attention - does not know this – the drafts of the sub-legislative rules to be issued are also presented; the constituents of these drafts and the way in which they are prepared are determined by the Secretary-General in cooperation with the government service and the legislative authority. Why am I bringing this up? Because if we want these rights referred to in Article 2, which clearly mentions that they must be respected, we need to know, given that the government has not established all the services in the law, even though it would be based on a constitutional decision, analogous to looking at the tasks of medical treasury morals and not least to looking at the other laws that have already been adopted in the National Assembly, let us say the Personal Assistance Act, which is the most comparable and about which I will say what else, there, unlike this law, is all very clearly specified and specific. There's nothing specified in this law. It starts like this, what they like to do is to list four elements, and then they say 'especially'. In particular, do we know where we know that word? From the Law on Infectious Diseases, there for the first time this facility was made and simply began to repeat and use. This, however, is to be determined in the following indent: and the other tasks will, of course, be foreseen and set by the Minister. It is therefore problematic how we will implement even Article 2 of this Law. We're gonna be hard on her because she just doesn't. And that's why I'm asking you, Secretary of State. You mentioned today because today's debate is on this subject, mentioned at least twice today, how urgent and important it is to get to this law as soon as possible. I'm asking you today: if that's true, tell me why you're moving dates to the future. Then why don't we give this right to people as soon as possible? I deeply agree with you, I really agree that it's a long-term care, it's late and that we've all been expecting it for a long time. But it has to have a basis. Let me know why we're moving it. Because there's no money? We really do not know where this money will be obtained for the exercise of these rights under Article 2 of this Law. Where are we gonna get that money? Let me be very clear. Tell me very clearly where we're going to get this money. And you know well because you're in, I'll say, in the process very clearly too, and today in the debate, you've made it very clear and you've started listing the resources where we're going to get this money. But the Legal and Legislative Service has warned you and with no correction of this amendment you have entered the debate today, at least a coalition, which I expected to enter and say very clearly that even at, I will say, sources where you have determined that donations and other contributions are also one of the sources of funding for this law, donations. How?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u104	Hey, buddy, can I get some content, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u105	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u106	The general debate was held on the principles of law and criteria and other matters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u107	My friend, my fellow vice president, please let me go to the debate. I don't know, but you're really called on to disturb everyone. Are you going to keep doing this all the time? There were Eva Irgl, Anja Bah Žibert, and finally members, representatives of the government discussed and discussed everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u108	My friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u109	And your predecessor also made it very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u111	If you'll let me just argue what you're trying to tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u112	Please refer to the content of the article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u113	May I finish, Vice President? I don't argue with you. I'm just asking you, Vice President, to let me finish the debate. Will we also practice non-democratic procedures at this point? Please. I believe in your honesty and honesty. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u114	I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. If you have anything, you can go in the lobby and talk. Here is the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Left to this Article. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u115	Vice President, at least stop me for an hour because I'm running out of time when you're talking and taking my time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u116	We'll give you a minute, colleague Möderndorfer. No problem. I'm just asking you to focus on the content, not the things you might need to clear up first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u117	Look, I know I'm getting on your nerves, okay? Vice President, I know. You've already tried everything. He throws me out of the hall, punishes me, I don't know what you wanted to do, but just, look, I'll finish the debate because I've decided. And give me at least so many Democrats if you already have democratically in your party to leave democratic procedures in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u118	My friend, please, you have the floor. The content is also defined by the guidance itself when this point is being considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u119	Look, my watch is running all the time. You'll be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u120	We just gave you a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u121	My colleague, give me back a minute, because he's taking them away from me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u122	They gave you a minute. Don't worry. We're not taking anything from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u123	Okay. And in short, I stayed where they said there weren't actually no such thing as just nomotech errors. And if we go to Article 2, we will see very clearly that this is not the case. I asked the secretary of state to just explain to me why, why don't we move time after this long-term care is done as soon as possible. I've heard that money's gone before. This money will and must be acknowledged honestly, although no one would want to acknowledge it before the elections, in order to introduce a mandatory contribution for long-term care if we want to exercise the rights set out in Article 2 to organise and manage it in the public interest in a way that allows insured persons equal availability, availability and quality of long-term care services. In fact, without this financially clear contribution rate, we will never be able to implement all of them. Why don't you tell the municipalities honestly before the elections and move them this time again, instead of allowing long-term care at home and, of course, the long-term supply of alternatives, alternatives, I will say, long-term care can, of course, be possible. No, you've even moved them, you're even moving them. And that is why this 2nd article will not be feasible at all, because these rights will not be given to people. I have listened today to the debate on how the one who will vote against long-term care is against, against people and in short will not know what to take from them. Please. Do you know what I'm up against? Against bluffing, bluffing. This law, which we all want, in opposition and coalition, I regret to note that many of the coalition have not read this law at all and the consequences of this law will not bring anything new to what we already have from what we already have. Domestic care is carried out and assistance is provided at home. It is known who is today a mercenary and it is known that this is too little and therefore, it is necessary to extend the right under Article 2 of this Law. However, we can only extend them by providing resources and by sources, among which the contribution rate is mandatory, I will say payments by all those who will once use long-term care or not, we do not know. As is the principle of health insurance and other insurance, we will be able to properly implement such a law. You don't misinterpret this right and avoid these words and don't admit it out loud because it's not good. The next thing that I think is very important is, of course, the deadlines for how we will exercise these rights, but if we mix and then you are also warned by the Law-Legal Service, if in fact there are no rights or concepts. Let's be clear about this. We are talking here about Article 2 in order to allow equal availability and availability of long-term care. Then we have the Personal Assistance Act, which speaks of independent life and assistance and so on and then we have long-term care that uses exactly the same terms. Let me know — no offense — what is the difference between personal assistance and what is the difference between long - term care, between one and the other? On the one hand and on the other hand, people with disabilities, on the one hand and on the other hand, will be helpers, and on the one hand and on the other hand they will need help and home service when I say independent life, in order to alleviate especially those things that they cannot do themselves. Tell me, what's the difference? When will I decide on personal assistance, and when will I decide on long - term care? When will long - term care exclude personal assistance or vice versa? This is not clearly defined in the law, so this Article 2 is not feasible at all. Is this going to work out with the rulebook? Please don't let that go with the rulebook. We must have the criteria and criteria at the outset in the law itself very clearly defined and when we have this defined, then there will be no problems. The Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that the Government can be incorporated into the law by means of sub-legal acts, with minimum corrections and clearer illustrations or clarifications of certain concepts or measures as to how they will be implemented, but cannot be defined by a regulation. He can't, he can't, he can't, you can't rule out the rights that only the law can lay down, so please explain to me how we're going to implement this Article 2. What about the rulebook or the law? That's a key question for me. What is the standard of what is superstandard how will we determine these rights? It says here in Article 2 that these rights are now tell me what the standard is? I tell you the standard is extremely difficult to determine because this law has not really defined what services are, because you list 3, 4 services in a particular part of the rest you say the minister will define with a rule. So we don't even know what the standard is or when it's going to be superstandard. This will be the difference because the public institution in the home of older citizens will have everything as a standard, the private institution will invent a set of new superstandards. Remember the debate that we had in this National Assembly many times when the superstandard private office charged fingernail cutting to an elderly citizen who was in domestic care. Why don't we define it? The Health and Health Insurance Act makes these rights very clear and knows who has something to do and therefore this Article 2 is virtually impossible to do. I guarantee you that this will be one of the first things to fall on the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court will make it clear that all rights must be defined in law and not in law, and you do not have them here. We have very clearly defined the amendments and will later be included in these amendments, where, in fact, if we really want this long-term care, let us move these dates back. I don't know why you wait until 2025, like you said, 1. 1st or no later than 30th June. I don't know, I don't understand that, that definition. What will happen in 2025, let me know. Today, in 2021, why do we have to wait four years? You know, the argument that we're gonna give us the law and see a little bit of how it works, and then in a year we're gonna fix it a little bit, that's not gonna work, I think. Especially because it is a law that is new, it is not an amendment to the law, but a kind of unique in Slovenia, because we have not had it so far. We had long-term care, which was broken down to 3, 4 ends, little health care, little social care, not so far from different sources, it was paid for, and now we're trying to get it together. And here I welcome the government and the intention of trying to do so. But, you know, it's about like if, I told you once before, it's like selling a car without a steering wheel. You got a nice car, it's got everything, it's got brakes, it's got nice colors, I don't know what else, but I can't drive it. Well, that's what it looks like. We grant certain rights, even the law speaks of us issuing decisions, medical bills, but these rights will not be realized. And the first time someone complains, and believe me, you can complain to anyone who will, of course, be entitled to long-term care, and that's not a lot of people, that constitutional action will receive or that constitutional judgement. I will then conclude this part by essentially interfering with certain rights already conferred by a decision from the same authorities. And that's the most terrifying thing. That one marriage interferes with other rights and limits them, which they have already received. DPP is one of the typical things. In view of why they were granted, another official will now automatically judge whether it belongs to him or does not belong to him, or most of the time it comes to that famous formula: You will have to decide whether or not you will benefit from it. As uniquely as Eva Irgl said today, especially in the case of the disabled, not only the blind, it will be very problematic. And that's what I think is going to be a knock on the wall that's going to cause a lot of trauma and pain especially in those people who need it the most. Do you imagine that you have a right and someone simply takes it away from you because another right is also needed and belongs to you? I'm going to end this first part with a single fact. And that is that today the minister came to the National Assembly for the second time, if I consider hearing, he read something, and I'm happy that he's gone. Because he doesn't know about this stuff. He's proved this twice now, so I'm glad that you, Mrs. Forte, will answer me because you know more than he does.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Now to avoid any further complications, however, I suggest that you focus on the content of the article and the amendment tabled. The introduction said that we are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. It has not been written that we are going through a general debate on the law. And second of all, I propose to everyone. That you are respectful as you wrote in the Code of Ethics of the National Assembly, as well as as as is expected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Conduct of Meetings of the National Assembly. Respect the integrity of both Members who are here and those who are invited to the meeting. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u125	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll be very consistent, very specific. We have heard a word earlier from the Minister, the Minister asks, literally asking that this law be supported, because there are good solutions in him. I asked myself what good solutions are in there, what he sees as good solutions I'll say so, good solutions, here's the idea so little different. Now I'm going to go directly to what this is all about. What hurts me the most, as an economist, as a financier I know exactly, and here is probably the biggest problem with this marriage. The bill provides for funding and should somehow be provided with existing funds to draw from the pension and health allowance. All we know is that we don't have to shut up anymore so that I can start doing this pension sooner or later. It's not going anywhere anymore. We have problems, the pension box is always on the limit, every year we drag ourselves out with this pension box and we never know how we're going to charge this pension box and here's the problem. Now we're going to power this thing from this cash register so we don't talk about the health treasury. In the health register, the Secretary of State is the lady of State, given the contribution that employers pay inwards, but those contributions are intended for certain things. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] The health department could be at this point in time, there is also one proposal for a law that I do not know whether it will go forward or not in this mandate to relieve the employer of the payment of hospital obligations, it has to be done, but I will not talk about it, President, I will not even touch it, but I am speaking because it is envisaged in the law that it will be financed from the health allowance in part. And we know for ourselves that there is already a shortage of this money in both cash registers. The third, then, develops a financial picture of this, making a proposal to provide the remaining resources to be covered from the State budget by integral resources. Now we have literally blown up finances this year and we have a billion-dollar deficit, second year 2 billion and a half, 2023 another billion and a half. I wonder how you think it's gonna go then. We're stalling until 2025 and I don't know what, but this is going to go on, the debt will go on. You don't want to go on. Any legacy you leave us here is gonna be crying, we're gonna be able to hold our heads, and then there's gonna be a problem, and so we're all wondering how this thing's gonna power up if I say so. That's the biggest problem. The Secretary of State mentioned earlier words 15 minutes ago, 20 minutes ago you said: "Yes, because 38 million are foreseen for public institutions, 93 million for repairs." That's all it's supposed to be. Do you understand me? The planned project and the financial structures are not even made, don't tell me to speak, because I know exactly because I saw the invitations and there are no invitations yet, there are no invitations outside, there is nothing yet, there is nothing concrete. [[Incomprehensible]] But I won't talk about what the Secretary of State said. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u126	Comrade Bandelli, please go to the content of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u127	Yeah, I know, then tell everyone to tell everyone from the content what needs to be said. I'll be done soon, because it doesn't make sense, and you'll be the one to adopt this law, and we'll be the ones to save it. My colleague here said three very important words earlier that this law is a pictureless framework. But I'll say otherwise, distinguished secretary of state, this law, it's no different than having one can of bad stuff to tell you and a misleading record of content, here's the law, if you understand what I'm saying. Sell something that isn't real, sell something that isn't true, sell it to us, and here the consequences will leave great financials above all, because we won't be able to hide it, and so you send the practical ball forward to the next government, literally so. Chest beats "we've adopted a marriage, and his heirs will save him" and that's not how it works. And I'm done with that, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Vojko Starović, please. Vojko Starović, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u129	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Look, it's very important in democracy again, the most important thing is to have a democratic process, so that more heads know that we are coming to a solution. In this law, when we push him through the procedure so quickly, there was simply no time to think, to see, to complement him. There was no draft law that came before us on this proposal for a law, because it was quite different from the one that was last year and was not allowed to have an expert discussion both wide enough in the committee and in Parliament not enough time. I would like to point out that the traffic light, which is otherwise financed by Brussels, is, therefore, by Europe, the measurement of how we comply with the resolution we adopted in this National Assembly on Law, Regulation and Regulation, shows that 70 % of the rules are adopted in a shorter procedure than envisaged by the debate. This leads, and there's nothing else I can tell you that leads to unconstant laws. I'm afraid that this law is so written that it won't be real and because we're talking in Article 2 about the rights that go from long-term care - the last additions I got here - who can examine it and I understand it, something also my profession was sometimes, but I can't, I don't see how much in this law this word could just become actually realized that the word becomes a horse as it is said there is no way. Now, something is being corrected, when, how, with what this has brought, these amendments have led to some solutions that make this marriage a little more consistent, but what we could do. We had to fight, leave the meeting, our Law-Legal Service had to write as many comments as it was almost marriage-long and now the State Secretary is not among us, but I talked to her, and in fact the team is new, different, has administrative problems, technical ways to bring this law together to bring it together, and we retweet it quickly and didn't allow time to improve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u130	My friend Starović, please go to the content of the amendment [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u131	I am saying the content that these rights enshrined in Article 2 are not feasible because the law will not live will have great problems, I am talking about them. Everyone told you. The question is funding and there are a lot of questions here that I so interpret, Mr President. Don't interrupt me, please. You're breaking up. I don't know what that's like. I really don't know. I can't speak my mind. Let's give democracy today we've heard a bunch of debates about how rude we are that we don't immediately agree that we're not okay, because this law was adopted by 45 members on the committee. Apparently, this system doesn't want to be taken into consideration and even have the opposition. Take us to the island and you'll have peace. Let us be respectful we have said and respect also if some other think this is the essence of democracy. I also give all right to the right hand side to say so, because it goes under the command and because we are in a free country they also have every right not to think with their heads. Allow me to think with my head and yes and to say the opposite, which is why democracy is meant for. [[Incomprehensible]] Don't interrupt me again. I'm talking about rights. We want to help, I say again, we want this law, but we want a law that will be enforceable. Not that we're gonna make things worse for long-term care. As I can see, this will make things worse. Instead of improving it, we will have a worse situation that we fear and warn, and we are truly well-intentioned. And when I say that, Mr. President, you interrupt me. I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u132	You didn't say any of that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u133	Where he can take it. [[…]] I think that this experience, European experience, could also lead to marriage. We had pilot projects, we had, we had voluntary projects. [[…]] [[?]] which works, the voluntary system older for the elderly, we don't want to learn anything from this. Come on, we've asked for more, we've given amendments, I'll support these amendments and the party, we'll support it, but still, because I know that it will, I expect you to push this law through, into force and we'll support these amendments that we've given, but by law, in fact, I don't hope to take this responsibility for something that's so poorly prepared, through a non-democratic process and on quick and forced to give through to support it, I can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u134	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, I warned you correctly, you didn't say anything about the article, you didn't say anything about the amendment, you were talking about procedural matters. I would like to remind you that the general debate on this law was held at the 26th meeting on 26 October, which is to say, at least three weeks ago, that this law was introduced into the legislative procedure, this is said to have been almost two months ago, and that a committee debate was held on Friday, where it was also decided to remedy the resolution of the law on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. How quality, that's another question, but the time has been practically over 2 months, to get to know the content of the law, so all these obviouss are going too fast and I don't know how they don't hold up because the law is going on a regular basis. Procedurally, Mr. Starovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u135	All parties, all parliamentary groups have agreed that the meetings shall be chaired by the President, the President-in-Office of the Committee and the Committee and the National Assembly, and I am warning you, and I ask you to stick to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u136	Thank you very much. As President, as President, I am obliged to take care of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, to ensure that the debates run in accordance with the rules we have and in the context of the procedural matters you speak, I am also obliged to explain what the fate of this law has been or has been since the introduction, and onward and if I have done anything wrong or said something that it does not, you can remind me, only things stand. Does Mr. Koprivc have a procedure? [[No, no, ……]] Don't you? Anybody else? NimahCity in Alaska USA [[…]] Then we proceed, and I conclude this part of the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] So, then I'm asking you to sign up. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] What's wrong? Look, he will, the application process is under way. There's a six reported. First he gets the word of his colleague Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u137	Thank you so much for your words, President, and a nice greeting to all present! Initially, I would like to ask the president, in view of the fact that I have been personally appointed twice or three times in the previous debate, to allow me, in this opening part, a slightly broader debate, as the other colleagues and colleagues have had.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u138	I do. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u139	Look, the Long-Terms Act. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u140	Anyway, I'm asking you to stick to the content, okay? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u141	Longevity Act [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u142	We're not gonna work the exceptions. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u143	The Second Treatment Long - Term Care Act, which we are considering today, comes about from 2002 - 2002. There have been many variants, many studies, reports even spent about 70 million taxpayers' money for various studies, pilot projects and I don't know what. That this, too, shows a lot of opinions, views, so all of this says that the law we are dealing with is demanding. All of this also says that we have received many opinions, opinions, proposals and amendments during the hearing phase of the National Assembly. It should be pointed out that the law arises in some difficult period when the Slovenian public and politics are as divided as they have never been. On the two committees to which I was personally present, the representatives of the interested public argued that the law was urgently needed. However, from the debates of Members and Members, I have been given the feeling that the content is not even so important, whether it is what we propose in there, because if not, everything sucks, nothing can be said that I do not manage all the hurtful words that flew at the expense of the law and would have behaved differently from the dignity of the lawmakers. 57 amendments of the substantive nature and 38 amendments to the amendments relating to the adaptation of the amendments to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were adopted by the committees or by the home committee. Desus introduced two amendments in the process in cooperation with the Association of Retired Slovenian Associations, which include volunteers or a project older for the elderly into the long-term care project itself. And now here comes the first obstacle and debate of Mrs. Alenka Bratušek, who regretted what we did or did not do. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u144	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u145	However, her colleague, who was on both committees, claimed that such a law, if not included, could not be adopted. [[…]] And to bring Mrs Alenki's ball back, or perhaps she forgot when the Prime Minister of the Government wanted and wanted the pensions paid to all pensioners to be reduced by 10%. Obviously, we can't even forget that. And let me put it this way. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u146	My friend Simonovich, please, if you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u147	that Desus is not in any coalition, none, and we vote for the content, not according to the instructions of some of the KUL's bosses. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u148	My friend Simonovich, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u149	I've got three more minutes of funding. [[…]] Look, there's been a lot of talk about this funding debate. Funding is provided until the second half of 2025. That's right. The other funds provide the budget, however. I'm a supporter of the Austrian model. If we are not able to provide this to the users of long-term care, 1.4 GDP, as provided by Austria, then something is wrong with us. Times are changing and changes are also needed in this area, not insisting on something that has been emerging since 2002. And maybe. Look, the law doesn't violate the rights acquired. It makes it possible that even those at home, if this is the direction, I think that the right one belongs to them, that right can benefit them, at home. And let me put it this way. Look, my friend told me, and I believe him, he's got a dad at the senior center in Skofja Loka. My father has a fourth category dementia. It pays along with staying and these professions, a little less than €900 a month's supply. The law says it brings him 300 euros for the circus to be cheaper to stay in his home than he is paying for now. And let me just end with the thought written by the representative of Karitas Slovenije for the law before he got these changes, he says: The law is a good enough basis to be accepted and all those who, if we want to finally settle this area once. As Ambassador Desus, I will, of course, support the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u151	Look, Mr. Vice President, I ask you to have the same vat for everyone in the meeting. When someone does not discuss in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, my two fellow Members Starović and Bandelli broke up when, in your opinion, they did not discuss in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You interrupted them in the middle. But you let your colleague Simonovich discuss the darkness and you didn't interrupt it. So if you have, if you are already doing this, then be consistent with everyone, because we will probably find one president or vice-president of the National Assembly, who will also interrupt your Members when they don't talk about the subject, and let's remember that someone is explaining that he can be a doctor of physics as well as something else. Here I ask you to have the same vats for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u152	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Look, I didn't interrupt, I didn't take a word from anyone. However, I also warned my colleague Simonovic twice or three times during the debate that he was not talking about the article and the amendment. So in this part, I think it's the right thing to do. Now you have the floor to discuss. Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u153	Thank you very much. True, pensions and long-term care are very important topics, including for the Sab client. And that's why we're never gonna let you get down. They once fell under the government of Janez Janša, where you were a coalition partner. So that at the time they only fell down and in our government, my president's government, this injustice was abolished to the pensioners. So much so that once it is clearly clear and you have to explain this several times clearly. Therefore, if we want to have stable pensions and also sustainable long-term care, of course, healthy public finances are also important for this. When we look at the situation today we have received from us a proposal for a law that has been repeatedly amended, 50 substantive amendments, 30 nomothenics. And, of course, such a journey is not good. Especially is this not a good trip because it legitimizes the introduction of a new contribution. It must be said that this law introduces a new contribution to long-term care. The only thing he doesn't tell us is who he's gonna nail, either the employer or the employee and what amount. This decision is left to the next government. Thus, the current law, the current government, the current minister introduces and legislates a new duty, and this needs to be made clear. She's the only one who doesn't tell anyone. So the options were for employers or employees and at some height. And that's what we're dealing with. We do not have a problem with the introduction that this matter is trying to be resolved, although we clearly state that it is necessary to make clear how this matter will be carried out. And also the Community of Social Institutions have said what this law actually does, that the rights that are distributed or dispersed in 7 laws unite into one law. So he's not saving anything new. And a great, great stranger or not even a stranger, but you're moving into the part where you don't tell the citizens clearly that you're introducing a new contribution, so you're law-abiding it. The only thing you won't tell who you're gonna nail is the employers, the employees, and what amount. And that is something that we are especially putting to the test today. I'd like to say again, we have to solve these things once again. But it is right that if we save them, we tell them how we will exercise these rights. But we can only perform them by telling whom and how we will finance them. And here's the proposal, here's a very inappropriate proposal. That someone says, because the budget will pay, because the law will pay, because the health department will pay [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u154	My colleague, please return to the content of the article and the amendment. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u155	And that is, of course, a question. And if we look at the demographic situation, we'll have to make a pension reform by 2030. Long-term care is also a very, I'll say, financially extensive supply. Health care will also be more expensive because of long-lived society. And on the one hand, we have increased expenditure, and on the other hand, we have a decline in the number of working people. And that's what he's warning us about. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The European Commission and the OECD.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u156	My colleague, please, the content of the article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u157	And you do not address these matters in your proposal and deliberately avoid them. And that's what we're making clear to you. And even so, I will say, because of this clear problem, which is highly articulate, we cannot and will not support your marriage. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Replica, Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President. Yes, I'd like to replicate Mr. Reich and ask him not to deceive. He says the pensions are settled. Our pension coordination law awaits the conclusion of this Long-Term Care Act. And that's why, dear colleagues, you're stalling and searching for all possible options so that we don't come to an end with this law. Last but not least, Mr Reich, all those pensioners who retired in 2010 and failed to comply have contributed to the stabilisation of the country of 8.2 of their pensions, more than we have today for the rehabilitation of banks and more than we have sold assets during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Gradually, Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u161	Yes, in view of the fact that you are introducing an attempt at greater respect for the Rules of Procedure, I am interested in the way in which someone, who is Vice-President of the National Assembly, is now allowed to replicate, without explaining in any way when and how he was misunderstood. This was nothing more than an answer to a discussion by Comrade Reich, where a colleague repeated lies about what someone wanted and what they wanted. But the fact is, Desus is the only one in history who's been reduced his pension to pensioners. And now that the replica is being abused like that, let me check in and say it again. The fact that you've reduced it doesn't change the fact that you're going to harm the pensioners again because it's incomplete and reckless and it's even destroying the system that we have so far. And within the framework I have now, it's working so well. So, yes, because the Vice-President of the National Assembly should at least try to tell us where he was misunderstood and how he was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Look, I think that colleague Simonovic responded to the discussion of fellow Reich when he spoke about pensions. It must have been a misunderstanding in this part because they both talked about it. And I also cautioned both of you not to talk about the content of the law or article or amendment, and in this way, if there are discussions, we will deal with everything else, with everything else except the content of the law, not or with the improvements or corrections proposed for each article. However, the point of the debate on articles and amendments is precisely that a debate is being held on Article and Corrections or that a discussion is being held on the specificity of the law which, according to one or the other Group of Members or the Government, is in need of correction and nothing else. And I would very much like to point out that the debate is taking place mainly or, if not exclusively, at least on the content of what we have on the agenda. Those things that could be done in the general debate, the preliminary debate, the request for a public presentation of opinions, etc., could then be done. Now, you don't have to enforce this stuff. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm a lovely welcome to the presence of guests from both ministries, in particular. So the debate is on the law on long-term care, Article 2 and, of course, the amendments to this Article. The article itself refers to the provision of funds, including compulsory long-term care insurance from which funds will be provided and, of course, from these funds, long-term care entitlements will then be guaranteed. Now, the amendment itself, I will say, once again, the amendment's proposal has a persecution and, of course, it sees in every matter that comes into the assembly, some fear that one privatisation will happen again. However, something that, of course, cannot be said to be a problem with this law, I will say that any concealment we have heard so far about the fact that, once again, it is clear that the budget law is being financed, if another euro can be obtained from the European Union's European funds, is excellent. Then, of course, any government will, but it is clear that by 2025 peace will come to the National Assembly a law on the provision of compulsory insurance for long-term care, so, I do not see fear, nor do I see any concern that now this law could not be financed because on one hand something can be saved, let's say that the provider at home, I will say, that the type of care certainly costs less than in the institution because of this somehow, if I say that things can be settled, we can, of course, quickly get to a favourable result. Perhaps just as much, the law is urgently needed and somehow also stresses deinstitutionalisation, which means people want to stay at home for as long as it is possible that, as a result, more users will also be addressed, in fact, the target group is in particular those who have not yet used long-term care. But he wants to show that something about this law wants to break some good system, and that's banal. Everything in the system as such has proved to be good in time, the extremes have been that our grandparents have also been brought to neighbouring countries, that is, Croatia, because it is impossible for some people to bring together thousands and more to care for them. And now, if anything is to happen in the direction of improvement, we need to support it. There's no reason to postpone the marriage, that's our concern. I think that in the National Assembly we will all get as much as I should say, some social sense that we will, of course, contribute our votes. And it's also right that there are some amendments to make things better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'll start a little wider. Vice-President, you have mentioned that this law has been in the process for two months now, that we have also had the opportunity to request a public presentation of the opinions. Yes, and we have proposed a public presentation of our opinions on Saturday's committee – because at the time the committee was called because it is an extraordinary meeting today. If it were a normal procedure, this law should be dealt with on the home working body on December 1st, but this was not the case. That's what you say. Time after your judgment was enough. You also incorrectly stated that the meeting was held on Friday. No, the meeting was held on Saturday until the early morning hours. And why am I saying that? Because it was agreed on Saturday, or today it was said that the law needed to be technically harmonised. And you can't know everything in advance. You need time. And now we're there. You need time, of course, absolutely. Such an important system law that we have on the table today takes time. He needs his time, yes, he does. And so many things, so many stakeholders that we have heard on the committee itself on Saturday, which oppose this proposal, would really make sense that the matter is slowing down a little bit, are starting to be reviewed separately. And what's more, what's most understandable is that today we get the coalition's 38 amendments to 154. And it was working all night Saturday night, and they were in sync, but it's just that it's not the right thing to do yet, that we still need it. And if there was any other day, we'd find out a lot more. That's enough in this place. I absolutely agree, we need a long-term supply bill, but we need one that is user-friendly. It is therefore extremely important and it would be important for us to hear all the professional public, who will also be providers of long-term care. As has been said, by the ZZZS on Saturday, the lady had only 5 minutes to express her position. She was totally tearful because she just doesn't know how she'll be able to do it. And in this place, I completely understand her. This law, which we have on the table, is extremely problematic because it raises more questions than answers. We will do more damage to that user who is already and even now is using some kind of long-term care that we cannot tell on time. We absolutely need to look for better benefits for users, which, of course, will be intended for these services. Sooner or later, we'll be there. Because long-term care is not for those after the age of 65, but long-term care includes those from the age of 18. And in a word, I can say that the law is unclear, unconstant, inconsistent, and I will not repeat myself that it really can happen that some will have fewer services. It is true that those who are rich today can afford to receive such and other provisions and provisions. And to these people this law will bring nothing new, perhaps a higher set of services for more money. Those who really need this law today, though they cannot afford it today, are asking what it will bring them. Again, because we do not have specific funding in this law. The basket of services we are talking about is very, very, I will say, widely written in particular, in particular. The problem is also that we will not solve the specific problems and needs of this law to people, but will open the door to private people who will offer services and, unfortunately, also pay them dearly to those users who will need these services. Long-term care should be treated as a social state, not as a neoliberal wild west, where caring for the elderly is largely left to them and their families. This law, as I have already said, is opposed by all relevant stakeholders. He is opposed by the professional public, representatives of pension organisations, disabled organisations, the community of social institutions, which has given us a clear warning about the problems that can happen. I'm not going to point out what's going to happen by checking those who are in first care today, and then they're going to translate into this basket of services or into a group, I don't know now, two or three, but I'm going to talk about those who are demented who have dementia. He already mentioned a colleague before me today, and those who belong to the fourth category of dementia are not in the closed wards. For, according to the proposal, the fifth category of long-term care consists only of residents who are in protected wards. So what happens to the rest of the residents with dementia? A key question raised by the Community of Social Institutions is also raised whether older people over 18 will be living with older people in their homes. Today, this is extremely rare, for those who receive a home or a need for a home and a place in the home are above or below 65. There are other institutions for these. This is where it can happen that this current system will collapse. It really saddens me that we have a 41-page opinion of the Legal and Legal Service that warned [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u166	Your colleague has been having a debate for seven minutes, and you haven't said a word about the article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u167	My friend Tanko, I'm not going to ask for any procedural proposals. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u168	Please. Please. Please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u169	For your two colleagues, colleague Anja Bah Žibert and colleagues Eva Irgl spoke exceedingly widely. [[…]] So I don't quote what the two of them were saying. I want to spend my minutes the way I want them, and I'm gonna have the kind of debate I want. All this stuff about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u170	not to discuss with you [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u171	And they speak universality. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u172	I'll intervene just talk about the content, please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u173	solidarity and equality. [[…]] I will also touch on equality with the allowance for aid and service. There are traps here, too, that some will have this supplement, but some will not. Please let me speak as I have. Maybe I'll end up because I'm still going to talk to the amendments, considering I've been here for the good five hours. So there is no clear distinction in this law between health care and long - term care. You should be, because it's about funding. I was talking about the basket. And on this allowance for assistance and service, which is an irresistible right under the law on pension and disability insurance, we should keep it. She's moving to some people. Why am I talking? But that's what I'm going to call it at 153rd. I'll continue with that. However, I certainly think, I have a question at this point, do we really have to, because we all need it together, we are all the same opinion, a long-term care law that we have been adopting for so many years, now that it does not solve these problems and such? My answer is absolutely no. We need a law that will not have all the dangers and traps and a bad decision that may otherwise be temporary, there is a danger that it can be permanent. Some already know this matter, because from the Personal Assistance Act, which, I must say, thank God it is, but the cost of funding is significantly higher than we originally planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u175	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I'm just gonna tie it up. I think that Mr Möderndorfer has previously very well started this allegory about the car and the steering wheel. And I'd go one step further and I'd say that basically when you came here with this Long-Term Care Act you wanted us to present that you did or wrote a Porsche in fact is to break Trabant. Now I'm going to tell you why I might be doing a little more plastic work. First of all, the problem is that this marriage is about funding to clear this up. In fact, the law is systemic and does not permanently regulate the financing of long-term care, and that is a fact, and this will have to be faced, and this will have to be overturned and things will have to be worked out, worked out. I agree you would necessarily need a law on long-term care, but there is no law that essentially breaks Trabant I'll throw myself at again. [[Incomprehensible]] So now who was at the committee meeting on Saturday also heard and also listened to all the participants of our civil society, those who came to the meeting were also the representative of the PPIZ, Mr Papež, from the Health Insurance Service, and in fact I will tell you all the main actors who should be the first ones that you should personally not call to the table, but actually ask them for advice and this for professional advice. Here is essentially the first problem of the point of my debate, which is actually constantly repeated in this National Assembly, that whenever you come with some law not in line with it, then people come who are actually going to work with this law or are going to work with this law to tell a completely different story. Mr Pope was now, if I dare to express myself, the whole frightened one was sitting there because I actually know that the whole movie was spinning in front of his eyes, and he's going to have to face everything because of this law, which is written just like it is right now. This marriage is truly sorry at the moment, and this must really be written very badly or I will say nothing. It has to be admitted. Whatever I don't want to put anyone in the basket, but the law is really written down because it doesn't actually solve the basic things that you should be saying what it would be if the Long-Term Care Act and civil society representatives were just direct and they also warned you that this will not work out that they disagree that you don't write it into the law, because it's not even feasible. In fact, it has opened up so many of them I'm going to say to the point that they were in the sky screaming that it was simply not possible to hear this or turn away. Indeed, once again, I myself, if I were in your place in any way I know that you are in no hurry to know, for whatever reason, but I think that the main and essential reason is from behind, I will not now say if or perhaps even some lobby or some interest is different in order to get it through and the main interest, but also essentially privatisation or how to enable and privatize this long-term care, which should always be public and public. We will also refer to this amendment to Article 2, which, in fact, with the new third paragraph, based on the model of pension insurance, we are introducing an insurance policy whereby the rights of compulsory insurance for long-term care are inconceivable and that is the main point which should guide you in this writing of the law and also guide you. Thus, things that are inconceivable are the right thing to do, that belong to a person or to a beneficiary of long - term care, and that is not something that I can honestly joke about. Simply these are serious matters, serious things, serious stories are here in the back and after these stories that we heard or even heard on the committee on Saturday. Personally, if I were in your position at that time as a representative of the Government, I would immediately request the suspension of the meeting or whatever and immediately try to stop this procedure of the adoption of the law, because this is indeed unacceptable and is not only an insult to those who will be beneficiaries and it is entirely possible that we will all have to be beneficiaries of long-term care in one way or another. It's actually very humiliating. And once again, let me reconsider, yes, we do, we need the Long-Term Care Act we're not such a bad marriage, please. I believe that you are experts in your fields, but I know that you are doing very well some in these professional spheres and I myself, if I were you, and whatever service is up or down I still have some pride, but I would stand up and say: “Thank you very much, but I don’t have to do this, I will not take laws against people and I will not work against people.”
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u176	Hey, buddy, anything else about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u177	Well, I told you. It is as I explained earlier that compulsory long-term care insurance must be an irresistible right, which must not, in any way or in any way, be deleted or in any way altered in this law, which would then allow some private capital or even private individuals to manage or implement this law itself. So please take your hands and sit down again and think about it or really think about it. Because I'm just going to say directly to people in the field, and a lot of people haven't read it, but what they found out or heard from other representatives has actually just upset them and pissed them off.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Hope Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u179	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I should like to start by saying that I will discuss the rights of long-term care on my own and the persons for whom this law has been prepared and what will be improved for these persons or beneficiaries. The fact is, those who exercise this right or who will benefit from these long-term care rights, that they do not care how long the parental committee sat down on Saturday, are not interested in what someone said, who cried, and so on, they are interested in what they will get under this law. What is the basic purpose of this law? The main purpose is to provide for all those who, due to age, weakness, disease, injury or disability, need help in carrying out basic daily tasks. In the current legislation they are entitled to this aid in principle over 65 years of age, and under this law they will be entitled to this right or aid, of course if they need it in the performance of basic daily tasks and will also be classified as one of the categories, and they will also be eligible for more than 18 years of age. But if we ask ourselves here what happens to those under the age of 18, say these, or they will continue to benefit from social law. Thus, this law extends the range of beneficiaries under 65 years of age and also allows them to stay in the home as long as possible when they are provided with a home that will be payable from this title. What rights will these insured persons have? They will have the right to use long - term care in the nursing home, which we already know. And how will these beneficiaries improve? As I have already said, these rights will also benefit under the age of 65 and will be paid, for long-term care, for all social and health care, for home care, it is said for accommodation costs, and of course they will pay for themselves. Second, beneficiaries will also have the right to long-term care at home. Now, a similar form of this right is the current implementation of home aid. We now know that this assistance at home in a financial sense is highly dependent on the congregation in which the beneficiaries reside. We know that some municipalities co-finance 50 percent of this aid, some even less. The aim of this law is, of course, to simplify criteria and criteria and, of course, to keep beneficiaries at home as long as possible. Here too, the long-term home care provided to the beneficiary will cover all healthcare and social care, and of course it will depend on the category in which these beneficiaries will be classified in the range of, at present, EUR 340 to 000 870. The beneficiary will also have the right to receive money, which will also depend on the category to which the beneficiary will be classified, currently 89, of course, according to the proposal of this Act, up to €491. This form can, of course, be compensated by long-term home care. Now, which is very important and new in this marriage, he is the provider of a family member. This right, however, will be enjoyed by all beneficiaries classified in the fourth and fifth categories, but it is the most difficult and difficult restrictions on the ability of the beneficiary. And this provider of a family member will also be able to provide long-term care to two beneficiaries, who, of course, must be his family members. The provider of the family member will have the right to income of 1.2 times the minimum wage, and if this provider takes care of 2 family members, such as his father and mother, that amount will increase by 50%. And this caregiver, who will take care of the beneficiary, will also have all the rights deriving from employment. This is very important. In addition, this provider will also have the right to alternative care, which means that in one calendar year it will also be able to benefit from 21 days of paid leave. In this case, however, it will be possible for the beneficiary to take care of the caregiver, accommodation, or nursing home, but of course after prior coordination and plan. But, of course, this provider will also have obligations, namely, he will need 30 hours of training in order to, of course, acquire adequate knowledge. This will only be about training, without any exam to understand each other, and this education will have to be repeated for 5 years. The beneficiary of long-term care will also have, according to the category identified, the right to strengthen and maintain independence. This service will also depend on its category. This is where it will go, for example, physical therapy, the right to a working therapist and so on, and this right will amount to between €348 and €392, following the current bill or its annex, depending on its category. And another right remains, and this is the right to e-services, which will be financed up to €150 per year. This is about e-supply rights such as distance security, SOS buttons, motion sensor and so on. Here I would like to point out that all those beneficiaries who today benefit from the aid and service allowance in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the benefits from war veterans, the benefits of social security beneficiaries and the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, all of them will not lose their rights. I repeat, they will not lose their rights. All these decisions will be issued by 30 June 2024 at the latest in accordance with this law, which I believe will be somewhat better for the beneficiary, at least in my opinion and also, I believe. However, while caregivers will receive new decisions in their homes for the elderly by 30 October 2022, these decisions will be given on an official basis in accordance with this Act. And I'm going to end by saying or listing four facts. We have a law ahead of us. I believe we'll accept it today. The law had been in preparation for more than 20 years and the opposition colleagues, who were in the government during a favourable financial, social and health climate, were unable to prepare and send this law into the procedure. We did it, and it hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Primoz Siter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u181	Seriously, Vice President? We've only been hearing about the disabled for 10 minutes, with all due respect, colleague, you've had a substantive discussion, but, President, you've been quiet. 10 minutes of discussion about the disabled of war, the colleague didn't touch the article and the amendment, and you were quiet. Before that, however, seven opposition Members, who also had a legitimate substantive debate, had to deal with interruptions and other allegations. I don't care, the debate is substantive, I like to have a wide, wide debate, but this kind of leadership says much more about you, Vice President, than about anyone else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u182	Thank you very much, even for this intervention. The basic article is now referring to obligations under long-term insurance. And by parts, by per partes [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The case was discussed by a colleague. [[advertising from the hall]] I beg your respect. I said that, so I thought this thing was going down. It also speaks of these financial rights, which are, or financial resources, which are intended for this purpose. Comrade Koprivc, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u183	Vice President, look, this way of leading you is really not going anywhere anymore, it's not going anywhere anymore, because it's more than obvious, but today you've shown definitively that you won't let the opposition talk. At the moment, a colleague from SDS spoke, otherwise, about my notions of a proper debate, but if we stick to the same vats as before with all the colleagues who discussed it by the opposition, we should warn her. Not to mention what Anja Bah Žibert and Eva Irgl were talking about earlier, when you were not yet in session, but you were talking about everything but this particular article and amendment. Let's make a deal. I mean, that's not how it works. The opposition here is seriously suffering and there is no democratic process because you have one system of opposition rules, another system of coalitions. And now it's eccentric, obviously. And in this way it is better to say, the National Assembly more and more, because the opposition can no longer normally do its work in Parliament. Now you've shown, specifically, you've shown, specifically. You let her speak for 10 minutes while you interrupted all the opposition Members earlier, despite the fact that there was always an agreement that Article 1 could be discussed a little wider. But when you're in pain, when you hear the criticism of the regime, you stop. And then you start giving reminders and so on. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Now, if you will listen, you yourself have found that the discussion of the colleague was correct. And I agree with that, with that conclusion. But I didn't run the session before. But each chairman has a few of his own criteria for conducting the meetings. I am not getting involved in this, not in how one or the other colleague or colleague leads, but I only know that the forecast is predictive of the following – that we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. And in this part, colleague mag. Koprivc, there was no matter which was related, I do not know, to procedural matters, to the way the committee dealt with it, to the general debate, to the rapid or slow procedure and so on. It is my duty and your duty, and it is also my duty to lead, to discuss what has been foretold. And now we're going through the stages, by procedure, by articles and amendments, and we're just having a discussion about it. And it makes sense for each article to say a separate provision and a solution. There is no need to discuss, I don't know, what matters which have absolutely nothing to do with the particular thing. You could have absorbed all that earlier in the transitional treatment of the law. Mag. Koprivc, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u185	Look, Comrade Tanko, try to live at least the time you're sitting in the vice president's seat in some neutral position. You're really making a lot of sense talking and deceiving. You said, yes, you said the debate was right. I did say so, but also the debate of colleague Starović or colleague Kordiš, colleague of Möderndorfer, was just as correct. But you don't have the same vats. But the opposition is something else, and the coalition is something else, and that's unacceptable. Because I understand that we don't agree substantively when you're sitting there in your place, and that we're delegating, but when you're in charge of the session, you have to have the same criteria for everyone. And once again, your colleague Anja Bah Žibert and Eva Irgle were talking about those false researches from the past that they did at the Ministry of Labour, which had nothing to do with this article, and they were not interrupted. And that's how you can't really do it. Then tell me, we're putting an end to parliamentaryism and that's it. Because the opposition can't discuss it normally, you know? And not now to talk about whether the debate was right or wrong. I can say without bad news that the debate of colleague Brinovšek was very correct and nothing deviated from the other discussions, but then you must also allow colleague Vojko Starović or colleague Kordiš. That's all this is about. There's always been some kind of agreement, whether it's gentlemen's or not, that at the beginning it might be a little wider to discuss. However, when members of the coalition speak, allow them to properly discuss when they speak in the opposition, and you jump to the floor as soon as a criticism of the government is mentioned and can be interpreted, of course, it is always subjective that the matter goes a little wider than that particular article. By repeating this, this is your subjective assessment, because this article, specifically referred to, can be interpreted very widely and it is a question of what it is all about. Come on, please, have the same vats. We live in parliamentary democracy, even though I know you want to break it down in any way in the next few months that you have. But you're gonna run out of time anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u186	Thank you very much. There'll be no misunderstanding. I didn't run the session when my colleagues were talking. Others who held the meeting at the time were responsible for the intervention. By not mixing what I do with what others do. As the chairman has assessed, it is his business. I'll lead the meeting like I said. I have read the article and the amendment twice, if I am not mistaken, and I have also warned everyone who gave up this debate. And that's my job when I'm in session. When someone else leads the meeting, they will assess it from their point of view, I cannot have exactly the same opinion as others. Now that you're talking about some practice. I'm probably the only one in this room who's been in this room since this Rules of Procedure were adopted and enforced. I guess I'm the only one. In 2002, I do not know if any other Member has been here since the present and also from other Members of Parliament. I know the full content, I know the chronology, I know the positions of individual presidents, I know the positions of authors and co-authors of the Rules of Procedure and so on. I know everything. And if you have any dilemmas in my opinion, you can ask your colleague, your Mr. Potsch, and I will explain to you what the purpose of the Rules of Procedure was and how this was done. But how do you want to get things out of the way is another thing? As President, I will make every effort to hold a debate at a time when the debate on articles and amendments will be held to really discuss articles and amendments. When there will be a general debate on the law when, I don't know, the Government's interpretation or direction will be discussed on the direction of the government and so on. However, it is not necessary for each article to mix everything up, because then this is no longer a debate about the article and the amendments, but about everything else. Comrade Koprivc, please, you have another word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u187	Look, Mr. Tanko, I strongly oppose this deception of yours. You've been trying to get some people to run things again, but it's not your problem. Firstly, this is not true because the National Assembly, as an institution, should agree that there are the same rules. But I was talking about the fact that you jumped into a word to the seven members of the democratic opposition that they were discussing in exactly the same way as colleague Nada Brinovšek, who spoke as widely as she spoke and stressed, I think there is nothing wrong with it, and you left it. And not only did you leave her behind, even when she was finished, you didn't deny her way of discussing it. Please, you're not being incorrect, and now you're deceiving what was before I don't know how many years or how many years ago. The fact is, if we want to go parliamentary, they must be equal vats for everyone. Dear Vice-President, you've always taken my word at the last four sessions and given me a reminder for no real reason. And I'm seriously thinking when you're the chairman or I'm going to say a word or not. It's not right, I'm not the only one, it's what happens to the opposition. And when the coalition begins to act from a position of power and to take the floor in Parliament, which is a place of debate, the word of the opposition, because you disagree with something that is said to be said, can start to beep all the alarms about democracy in the country. And I ask that this practice be completed. I also appeal to the President of Parliament, who is responsible for the normal exercise of his work in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u188	Dude, I'm doing this right now, and I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree with my decisions, you can address your comments in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for Rules of Procedure and the debate will take place there. As for the back stories you have challenged me and all my interventions in your debates, I have repeatedly warned you that in your deliberations you are very offensive, humiliating, speaking and discussing contrary to the provisions of the ethical code that you have adopted in this National Assembly. That you are disrespectful and insulting to others, and that is why I have given you a great deal of admonition. And I suggest that you focus on what is on the agenda in your debate. That is how the Rules of Procedure imposes and that you also take into account the provisions of the ethical code, which you have so gladly adopted, and of course also any provision in the Constitution which speaks of human rights, integrity, that someone is not guilty until convicted and so on. There you have one section 43 on human rights and I suggest that you first study it, look at it, and then direct and do your own discussions. And then everything else is just chasing, I don't know, the backdrops of the shadow. I propose that we continue the debate. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I have already told you, if you do not agree with anything about my conduct, please write the matter to the Rules of Procedure Commission and the debate will take place there. Procedural mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Vice President. First, I would like to express my joy that there is obviously a change in leadership and that Parliament will be able to continue normally in a few moments at the same time I will not allow a representative of a party that kills all democratic procedures in the Republic of Slovenia to tell me what human rights are and to read the Declaration on Human Rights. You have to read this because I think your work is more than obviously based on human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Look, now, if you want to be a Democrat, you have to respect the rules and other things that are involved. As long as you break the rules of your debates and codes and so on, then it will be difficult to talk about democracy. First you have to have a debate after what's written here, and then you can talk about democracy. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Yeah. We're starting the application process. My colleague Hefferle, if you'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u191	I'd love to, buddy Tank. I'm opening a list for the discussers. Please sign in. We've got two reported discussers. The first one gets the word "ma'am mag." Carmen Furman, behind her, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, let me say that in advance, the debate is going back to the tracks in which it began, so that I will allow a broader debate than the debate at the beginning of today's day to have the right and the right to debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, first of all, this Long-Term Care Act, which we have been waiting for for for as many good or fat 19 years, is the fact that it is a system of treatment for every full - time citizen who, or will need long - term care, is dependent on or will depend on foreign care and assistance. The fact is that our citizens have so far not had it so arranged. It is also true that in all these years we have not come to the definition of what long-term care is just to ensure that rights are systematically covered here and can therefore be enjoyed by all full-year citizens as this law is now saving. First of all, a statement by the opposition Members why we are in such a hurry by this law. We've waited over 19 years for the marriage. Our citizens were not entitled to some systemic solutions and treatment in this area even more by policy at this time, even such matters were happening if we recall a little while ago when you were in the coalition, respected by today's opposition, what was said at that time at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee and later at the meeting of the National Assembly, because the former ministers both told Minister Anja Kopač Dark as Milojka Cerar that the law had not been adopted, because the Government had fallen, and then the law was not adopted again because the Government had fallen. What was going on, then, under the government of Marjana Sharca under your coalition government at the time? It was announced that the Long-Term Care Act on the table of Members of this Assembly would be a reference to the National Assembly on 20 April 2020. And you know what happened? Yes, your government has fallen. Your government fell in January 2020. I now understand, then this is your controversy today and the gallant debate because this law has now shown your opposition how you were unable to arrange it when you were in the coalition of this area, you announced that it should be arranged, but on your part you were unable to bring it to the National Assembly at that time. Today, however, the effectiveness of the current government shows that it works for people and brings into the legislative procedure those laws that are essential for the well-being of our citizens. If, at the time of the governments, we unfortunately had to discuss several million studies that you carried out for individual pilot projects, for which we do not yet have concrete answers to why they were good, what was their purpose, and in particular what of these studies and projects for the 74 million that you then spent, our citizens had here today on the table a systemic solution that our citizens will be able to benefit from, and I really hope that, on your part, there will also be so much sensitivity to our citizens, that this law may also be supported by you, or at least refrain from such debates, which we have unfortunately been forced to listen to since the Saturday session of the Committee. At that time, the Court of Auditors raided you. You have had a long history of Social Democrats for more than 10 years, and we know that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was primarily responsible for it, but you did not then respond to the needs of the people in the environment, to the needs of our citizens. I see now that Mr Židan is already predicting the replica, but see this is a fact, it was given to us by the Court of Auditors' audit at that time, which we have also discussed here, and as I have already said, the Long-Term Care Act has been announced, so that this law has not been prepared from today to tomorrow, all governments have been preparing it, but no government has been able to bring it into the legislative procedure until now. But this government has been and we have it on the table today, and I am sure that this is the greatest core and pain you have in the opposition, because this shows the effectiveness of the current coalition. I can only say from this debate that I previously listened to from your side. Marriage brings good solutions. We all know that this law is urgently needed, but interestingly by the opposition is that since the law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure, only efforts are being made to break the law, how to do so that the law is not adopted. And I will say this if, out of all these legislations, all the laws currently being tabled, it only shows how the current coalition feels about people's needs and concerns that citizens actually have something from the adoption of the legislation, it is clearly an exclusive priority for you to overthrow the government. The question of why, perhaps because the Government is setting you a mirror in all this, what could have been done in these years when you had a government in power, but so far there has been, unfortunately, no harm done to citizens and citizens. So that I can only conclude by supporting this law today, because it is absolutely necessary, it has been necessary many years ago, and you have not brought it to Parliament to be able to decide and discuss it, so that now this area will be systematically regulated as it must be taken care of all those full-year citizens who need long-term care to be able to decide between the individual rights that the law gives them, and so it is also right to take care of people during the third life period, as well as those who are unfortunately still dependent on long-term assistance and care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Furman. I'll give you the replica right away. Let me just say for the magnetogram, perhaps for those who accompany us, that you have not talked specifically about the proposed amendment with a single sentence, and you are lucky that if your fellow Member, Vice-President Tanko, would now lead the meeting, you should receive at least two reminders by his standards if I do not take the word away. Just so much for the record. You have a replica of the procedure, Mrs. Furman. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u194	See, Madam President, you yourself have said in the introduction that you will allow for a somewhat broader debate and I have taken this opportunity in my debate. There is another fact, however, that, at that time, opposition colleagues had previously Parliamented with the chair on the holding of the meeting before my debate, and the fact is that the opposition Members also had a very broad debate in the transitional debates, which they all concluded in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u195	Yes, I agree with you, I've only told the public who might have joined us now. It is, however, a fact that I have not reached out to you with a single act, but earlier, my colleague Tanko has done it in an infinite way, but at the same time when it came to opposition Members, so that only so that we can clarify these criteria of leadership, and that we will never again throw anyone how much he is correct to his colleagues, because I have now been right to you. Replica, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u196	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would not, because at the instigation on your part, Madam Member, I am used to it, but also dealing with it is a pure waste of time, although then you will yell, we are for cooperation, cooperation, in the midst of three attacks with lies and ask why you have the right to speak on this side, then again cooperation, cooperation. If you listen to this, you can see that such cooperation is only possible in authoritarian dictatorial and neo-fascist societies, and we all don't want to do this together, and that is why we have to act differently. What you didn't say when you got off on the right foot. Yes, there were a few bills, but all the bill proposals finally found that money was needed. Today I have already proved to you that we already know that it will take a billion and a half and people not to tell it, is the worst form of deception because they will get rights without money that they will not be able to realize. That's why what we minimally expected you to come up with a proposal. It could increase tax rates, I don't know, strongly. However, in order to do what is most solidarity, we can simply say that we are introducing a contribution similar to that of a medical cash register, a pension which will be linked to a percentage of the income. Of course, you cannot do this because this is contrary to what you claim in the following laws because you would lower all taxes. However, a promise to give, a right to something to people, while not giving money, is in fact such an ugly approach to citizens and citizens that I do not even want to describe it to you in words. And once again, I didn't mean to mention it on the right side here today, but just let us show you the mirror again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State would like a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. In view of the funding parliamentary process. The law is perfectly clear here. The financial resources are provided. They're scattered today. However, we want a special long-term care unit and a special sub-account to be established in the institution. And the funds paid by the institution today, say, to the homes of the elderly for this care, these resources will now be on this sub-account and will be funds intended to further implement the content of long-term care as is happening today. No one in the nursing homes who are set up today will feel this, no one will be deprived. I don't know why you scare people. And today, the second resource envisaged is the funds at the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office. There are funds that are then used, for example, for this aid and service allowance, and here we have three items and there are 33 000 such beneficiaries, and many of them are also in the homes for the elderly who receive these funds and also help to exercise the rights that they then benefit from in this home. Therefore, the funds are provided and nothing is wrong and this is very pro-European and are the OECD's recommendations that, of course, the state budget also provides resources. And what's wrong with that? You know that we are one of the few countries that spends a little over 3% of the health care budget, and we are among the worst among the OECD. And why is such a criticism now when a government decides that such important content as long-term care is further financed from the budget? And the funds are provided by 2042 and the law also clearly states that it undertakes to adopt a special law where, of course, these funds will be provided for. Why, we don't have to do this today. Why not? Because the resources to secure rights for the next two years are provided. Financially stable. And today we don't need any extra burden, extra burden, I'll say, contribution rates or insurance liabilities. Because we already have these funds. After 2025 and beyond, as the demographic declines and this share of beneficiaries of long-term care will grow, we will, of course, have to take care of this as a society. And, of course, like other European countries, which also make substantial contributions from the budget, Slovenia will probably have to do so. And many countries, if you follow a little bit of what is going on in their parliaments, I follow the German Parliament and see that, in fact, at the beginning of the year, they always have a debate about whether the funds intended for long-term care are still appropriate and annually assess and change this. And that's what Slovenia's waiting for. But once again, both the European Commission and the OECD in this area warn that funding resources must be dispersed in order to ensure financial stability.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u200	Thank you. I am pleased that the Member of State has referred to the German Parliament as a criterion, but unfortunately you did not mention the law on communicable diseases that has been adopted these days and we should look at it before sending this PKP10 with our ideas to this National Assembly. Contrary to what the German Parliament has adopted, first. Second. No funds are provided for the following year. Only an uncontrollable budget hole is provided. And you have to admit, you have made an uncontrollable budget hole that will sink us all, and the next government will have to work very hard to stabilize Slovenia again. Today, it will be impossible to say that it will be possible to take money from a health - care shop. Now I'm going to tell you that next year we're going to find out if we want patients waiting for surgery, patients waiting for examinations, to enable them and to pay them from the budget, we're going to be able to directly provide 300 to 500 million. You'll see this at the end of next year. So, without the funds being provided, there's a hole that's going to be even bigger, and what I resent is that we just don't say very clearly and loudly, we need money for something that we have to give people. We need to give the elderly long-term care, but we can only give it to you in such a way as to provide real money. To say that the amount of funding from the integrated health resources will increase is absolutely necessary. But it has to be for everyone to get to a doctor when they need one. Take a look at today's situation, Madam Secretary of State. Your ministry alone said that about 10% of the medical teams were involved in the coude in secondary care, i.e. in state hospitals. But it all costs us because it's not funded, and we're already on balance sheet zero. The following year, when it has to be financed, you will see, the mass of wages plus services, the deficit in the health treasury will be 300 to 500 million, which the state budget will have to provide because this has the maximum advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Of course, I am returning to the debate because I have deliberately waited for the Vice-President to leave because it has prevented me from discussing what the previous Vice-Presidents or the President have allowed. I hope that I can finish now and get the final answers from the Secretary of State, which I am asking, but she has not even tried so far, unless she makes it clear that she does not want to answer me. You bet she doesn't know what I doubt, either because she doesn't want what I don't believe, and I hope she just forgot. I asked her the following questions. Let me explain if this long-term care is so urgently needed, which, of course, I believe, and I also believe in the government, that it has made efforts to allow this long-term care as soon as possible, why you are delaying the dates on later, why not do it immediately. Don't explain to me that the health department needs time because you're putting off a bunch of other things. We and the amendments have proposed that we do all of this with 1. 1. 2023. Let's say one year is enough. But no, you've already moved certain things forward with the amendments. Another thing that seems very important to me and you mentioned it earlier in your debate, which, for example, could be very good at other times, but here simply does not hold yours, I think it does not stand the basic postulates. You're just saying what's wrong if you're just providing something from the budget. Nothing is wrong, but it is wrong that you do not tell people the truth and clearly do not tell them, and we should do so immediately and we should also talk about the scale that long-term care is required for long-term care to be imposed. That's the essence of the whole story, because the budget won't hold up. It can be that today, when the government predicts or at the time of the budget, we already have a 2 billion-and-a-half-blown balloon, which it will soon do, and you know it. And why it's important for the health department, when you say, because it already has resources. Or, already every year, the health treasury is being absorbed in health services at the expense of other matters that the State continues to impose on the health treasury and exceeds all the funds that it should spend on the basic activity. And let's take a command, the health department was created solely for one thing, which is that it pays for health services. With long-term care, we will bring long-term care to the health treasury and the health treasury here on Saturday warned you that things will not run normally and that they are impossible, as you have set them up, for sure. And it needs a steady and clear seamless supply of resources. We can say today about the budget that we will give no idea how much health allowance, and then the balance comes and is no longer feasible, God forbid that a fiscal rule is introduced and there will be cuts. And what are we gonna do? The budget won't make it. Let's get used to it, and that's why we can't really be in debt. And you compare the parliamentary system in Germany, where you follow it and how cool and so forth and great. Yes, but here, too, you should, on the basis that you brought the law into the National Assembly, at least lay down the basic rules that the government has laid down for itself. Tell me, Secretary of State, why don't you introduce to the National Assembly the rules, draft regulations that you should have on the government when you passed this law, to see what it says in these drafts, which the Minister himself attributed to, which should be in the law of this right. That is why we say that this law is illegal, unconstitutional and, most importantly, insurmountable and insurmountable when it begins to run when we see how problems actually arise. While you can easily say the next sentence, let us leave the marriage to come to life and that we can see what is right and what is wrong and what is wrong, and then we will fix it. Secretary of State, you won't be here at all. And mistakes will have to be made by others. And today, I am going to tell you that I am likely to come into law because of such anomalies and illegality, because I am sure that the Constitutional Court will give a very clear assessment that rights must come into law directly but not indirectly, so that the Minister prescribes them by means of a regulation, matters and certain articles will be annulled. And what are we gonna do? Once again, there will be decisions in the constitutional order, because the National Assembly has accepted them and will have to correct them. And today you promise with big addresses people will finally get long-term care after 20 years, something they deserve. I remember your words, you know, state? I remember your words when you were talking on Saturday about a diabetes patient, how a parental sister or many times doesn't even come up with someone who could inject him with diabetes. But I'm sorry, if that's true, let me know why you didn't listen to the VDCs and you didn't create the conditions for a patronage nurse to create this. Not down there in the hills or in urban settlements where the VDCs are with residential units, they will not be able to do so - because this is not provided for in this law. And now we had to write an amendment overnight, which will be slightly rejected because the coalition didn't get the government's consent, because you're just fixing the nomotech stuff in this law, not substantively. Let me answer that question. I never get an answer to that question either. Let's move on. You say no one will be deprived. Excuse me, do you know what will happen to the law that is written as it is today? Believe it or not, all of a sudden we're gonna find out that we still have a long-term waiting period. Because not everyone is going to get these rights. You know why they won't come? Not because there are no doctors, but we have another problem somewhere. Not because there's no nurses, but we have another problem somewhere. But it's because there won't be any providers. They just won't be there, and you know it. Because you didn't predict how this human resources trend would go in this area where there were not enough people. Do you think everyone in this business is going to take a toll and want to do this job? They won't do it for that money. I wish I could, but not for that money, but I wish I could be a respected profession and be able to come. I heard a statement today that the social geriatorologist you, by the way, forgot and brought in the post-festum that it was a new profession. I'm sorry, but this profession has existed for years. It's been years. There's nothing new about this place. And don't make up a story. I mean, I don't know why you're telling such a fairy tale about this marriage, like it's brilliant, everything runs like butter, there's no problem at all. Then read the basic articles on what you offer in this law. You describe what long - term care or home care is, or what services are, let's say, divided into health care, and I don't know what else, and then you write that the rest will be defined by the minister in the rules. Let me explain what kind of law this is. How the complaints will run, how the coordinator will know what's right. He's gonna hold the marriage in his hand, and he's gonna say, yeah, those are your rights, wait, I'm gonna go look into the rules a little bit longer, and what's the minister predicting, yeah, the minister predicted this and that and that and that and that? Yeah, that's not gonna work. Make up your mind. But the main instinct is only one, and you know it and don't tell people. You're only interested in one thing. Until 31st. 12. The law must be adopted at all costs, because otherwise you are afraid that what you have committed yourself, you have committed yourself to the European Union to do certain things that you are now subject to - if there is no law, there will be no money. And this money won't go to pay, this money won't go to what some of you sell as a happy story, if you pay for even, I'll say, long-term care. No, he'll go to the walls. And you know the wall is too small. Something partial, very small will go for educational purposes, that's it, and here's where the story ends. But what's dearest, and you know it well, financing the implementation of the program, that's the most expensive part of every service, and that's where we're gonna run out. Why? Because we do not have a compulsory long-term allowance — because you do not want to give it before the elections. Because you're counting on doing this later. You do not want to tell people the truth: yes, you will have to pay for long-term care. Because you're scared. Because you know that many governments have already fallen because of this. But people need to be told the truth, and that's very clear. You don't want to say. Let me tell you and you don't want to answer that either, just let me know what the difference between personal assistance and long-term care is. What's the difference? I really want to hear that definition. I know a lot of disabled people who are now going to be in a dilemma, or choose one or the other, because you wrote it down so that two rights can't be used. Let me tell you what the difference is. What is the difference between the concepts of help and home service and home care, and let me know what the difference is. I can't explain it to myself, I'm a layman, you're an expert, if not another, you have the expertise behind you. Let me know what the difference between extermination and extermination is, as you wrote in the law, and that's one of the rights that someone will have in long-term care. I'll tell you how such errors happen, someone quickly wrote, made “copy paste” from one computer to another, which were already written. Your Prime Minister wrote that 126 drafts have already been made. Where he saw those 126 drafts, I don't know, someone sold him that number. Today he boasts again, on Twitter, once again "retweet" this information. And we will be the only one who will allow people long-term care. That's all he talks about, but he doesn't know how. And I'm already seeing this milling machine, I'm going to say, a special machine for the SDS electoral apparatus, we've given you long-term care. Secretary of State, let's tell the people the truth. You will not allow them anything except what they already have today, and I believe you here, no one will go out of the house, everyone will stay at home, because that is all you allow them by this law. There won't be any long-term care at home. Today, the MP said she would commit herself to being, as soon as this marriage is passed, a new marriage for, I will say, this, an assistant to be, a family assistant, to put it in, and to define it again, I will say, a matter. If that is true, why not immediately give a parallel Law on Financing Long-term Care or what you already call it, where you load one of the governments in the future so that it can do so. Tell people there's no money, but you have to make something up. There is no problem with saying that it is necessary to provide a health-care special account where you will pool all the funds earmarked for long-term care, but the problem is that this money is also leaking, the problem is where will the people who will do it then before it even works, that I am not talking about control, which is so morbidly written in this law, that in the end will no longer know who drinks and who pays. I believe you're all too happy and pleased to have written as it is written, and in six months, you'll be worried about this law because you won't be dealing with it anymore. In your practice, you will do your job again, thank God, I respect that, I appreciate that, but for this law you will care a little bit, and someone will be able to fix it. You're saying that you've listened to me, and I don't know who else and I don't know what suggestions these NGOs or NGOs are looking after their own interests. Don't be shy. So, over your thumb, you're banging on NGOs, but, nothing new, no wonder, because, on those sides, the SDS, they're doing it on a constant basis, and you're very quick to get these stories, if everyone's doing it, I'll say, on the basis of interests. Mrs Eva Irgle served us today with a special explanation when she said, you know, today, if I say so, home care is like, you know, a hotel and a hotel sleep and food, right, the real room where, I'll say, the home care user is using it, he'll pay for it himself, because you pay for your own sleep and food at home. That's the one. But everything else goes to the service and here you can see, then the price of the service simplified as it simplified. Then he goes on and says, “After this adoption of the law, this will no longer be necessary, because this price will be covered and so on.” But he does not really say what is waiting for us all together and I do not mind that we understand only people should be told yes, we will spend our entire lives paying the obligatory fee so that we can end up with such a price of services. I am still sure that we will be price differences because the Secretary of State cannot explain to the Assembly the difference between the standard service and the standard service. What's standard and what's above standard, you tell me. Tell me, what's the standard? Just don't tell me everything the minister's gonna tell me, because we don't know what it is. What's the standard? The Secretary of State sees that there is still a need for Members to help you to respond more easily, and this is really a great help. Instead of turning the Secretary of State to explain to the Members, we have other things, but this is your relationship but you never listen and then you don't even bother and you don't even answer. I'll do my best, and I'll wait until the end, or you'll answer at least one question. That's the way it is. Once you've done your best, I'll be able to continue to argue with you, of course, from the time I have left. We will table and table the amendments ourselves and make it easier for you to do what we should do for ourselves and that is to move the dates to the early implementation of the long-term care, so that people can finally get this long-term care that you are putting your full mouth dates into the future government in 2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Some of the answers, because Mr Möderndorfer's debate was just questions so that I would try to focus on the essentials. Exclusion Exclusion, Exclusion Forgive me someone said that after your education from the medical profession you have probably already forgotten elimination is urination, and extermination is mud removal and therefore it is both stated because it is not the same and what a man has problems and it is necessary to take care of each thing differently. And then there was a lot about the frame. The Ministry of Health has already accelerated the procedure for a new qualification of a national caregiver. In fact, the relevant Commission has already drawn up a list of the skills and skills that such a person will have to have, this will be a professional education focus on care of up to 480 hours by getting a new qualification condition is the age of 18 years and the least completed primary education. If we look at today's data from the Employment Office, we see that there are as many as a thousand 241 people on the list, who have one or the other health education, and among them, for example, there are 233 people in the middle, health care and midwifery of the unemployed 565 people, and then we have working therapists and, say, physiotherapists 45. This pool of people doesn't stand a chance today. There are only people here who have medical qualifications. How many others can be involved if they are involved in the exercise of long-term care with appropriate education. Even today, various professions are being directed to the homes of the elders of the Employment Service, which do not have mini schnell courses, which the Germans would call, and then they would be involved in the care and care of those insured who are already living in their homes. As far as your debate is concerned, why is this such a long delay? The law shall enter into force on the day following its adoption. The most we could hear here I will also make serious comments were made by the Health Insurance Office that they have too short a deadline to prepare. Whoever knows the structure and functioning of the institution knows that this is a very complex system, and this is also a very complex challenge, and the institution has to set up infrastructure, all the rules, the operating system, and they will start work here immediately. And it's not true they weren't aware of it. Throughout the drafting of the law, he worked very closely with the Ministry of Health as a professional associate from the Department of Health Insurance such as the Ministry of Finance and as experts from the Ministry of Labour. So they did not fall out of the moon on the day that the law was enforced, but they were involved all the time in the process and there was a lot of willingness that they did not say. They also cooperated in the formulation of the rules, but they did not say so. There's a little bit of deception here, too. But we have estimated that the matter is actually very complex and that we listen to the institution and that is why this year 2023, which is ahead of us, is meant to consolidate and focus the institution on a new task and, of course, it is already starting to work on the official duty of that thing that will continue, that is what I have already said in the introduction, is that true insurers, people, caregivers will not feel that it has actually entered into force some new law, because their care will not be worse, even less, they will be called by their own wallet. They'll make less contributions to care. You know that today some of the supplies are also paying far over a thousand euros. And here let me just remind you of maybe someone who has dementia, has a pension, has some allowance to help and service, but the care is much more expensive. And for such insurers, they will receive over EUR 840 for long-term care after their implementation and translation into the new system. This is also rewarded with health care, which is a right from compulsory health insurance. So the law really starts to apply the next day when it enters into force. It is also immediately in force that the family assistant is now simply renamed, recategorized as a provider of a family member and that his compensation for loss of income is substantially increased. And we know that there are about 33,000 people, perhaps 33,000 of them, but not by my word, Mr Pope would know that, probably at least 10,000 in the homes that have this right, there are more at home. Of course, procedures must be made to ensure that these rights are transferred in order to be evaluated. Therefore, all of a sudden, we cannot start implementing what the law provides for from day X because procedures, protocols and translations will be necessary. And secondly, I've already mentioned the categories of professions we need to prepare. That's one. Secondly, there is a need for professional workers to be trained at the single point of evaluation, of course. It's some kind of procedure, some demanding work. But of course this is followed by some education because it will be qualified higher education people who will have special training in order to know these evaluation tables correctly to use and that, regardless of whether or not a person enters the Ljubljana District Unit, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, all will be evaluated with the same watts. Therefore, we say that all insurers will have comparable rights according to comparable needs. And of course that's a thousand and a thousand people, and that's why we can't say that on day X, we start applying it. The law will be implemented for all the rights which the law addresses in 2024. And, of course, procedures are needed. I mean, you're an education health worker, and you realize that this is a very complex system and you can't enforce it from today to tomorrow. And once again, I've talked about funding. And really not fooling people, not fooling people, because the funding system is set up as it is set and stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u206	It's damn clear to me that no law can be enforced from today to tomorrow. But I don't know why four years. That's an essential difference. And why one right now, and one much later. And most importantly, the financial impact would be significantly greater and you had enough time to prepare and explain clearly what the level of the contribution rate will be when we have to introduce a mandatory long-term supply levy. That's my lead. But as for the other questions, I'm only interested in one thing. If that's true of course, that's it. [[End of discussion warning sign]] We have 15 seconds left, if that's true, I'm sorry, you only mentioned the institutions, but you don't say anything except when you mentioned the translation of the family assistant, and that's for me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Also, I'll open the list, please sign in. We have two reported discussers. First she gets the word Mrs Iva Dimic, for her Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, both colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, today I sit in the hall and listen to what you say and what words come from your side. You forgot to be human. Then there was the second word that touched me very deeply: “This is a stillborn child. I mean, I don't know how, or, I don't know what's going on in your heads, in your souls, that you can, in such words, walk away from the recent Long-Terms Act that we've been waiting for for 20 years. If you have read because today there have been many questions about how this is arranged elsewhere and what is wrong, then I must commend you for a very well-prepared international study. Very well prepared. And if you went to look, from side to side, Germany, Austria, France, only these three countries, you saw when they had already passed the Long-Term Care Act. Germany in 2014, Austria in 2015. It says in here what are the sources of funding for each country. It also contains forms, formal and informal forms of long-term care. And if you read this, this introduction, this comparison, of course, are members of the law then also in Slovenia, they run in this way. He was an eyewitness of where the funding came from. From the state budget. For two years, I'm sure. That's what we've been taking. The fact is that the needs for long-term care services are on the rise, even in Slovenia, and that we are far behind other European countries. And if I just look at how many times they've amended and fixed the law in Germany, because that's exactly the page I have open. Look. Three times. It is said that the Long-Terms Act is a law that is actually a living law. That answers and will have to meet the needs that people will have, the elderly, the sick, the disabled. I can't imagine us adopting a law that we're going to say today, but this law is now here for 20 years. That's the kind of marriage I'm worried about. And all these insights about how we're going to fix it, how it's going to change. Life changes. What do they say? The proverb says: The only constant in life is change. And in this area as well. And that, apparently, those today, the most powerful who have had scissors and canvas in the hands of the last 10 years, yes, also colleague Möderndorfer, in the time of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc in New Slovenia, we sent a proposal for a long-term care law to define ourselves around this. She didn't answer either. And there was also a finance minister from the same party and Jani Möderndorfer, a colleague of mine who was rhetorically extremely good, was said to know the health system, never opposed it, but today he was taught little by State Secretary Forte, he was unable to process it. It was obvious that New Slovenia, where we will take the money to be. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, colleague Alenka Bratušek was even Minister of Health for one time, she had a financial minister, she was President of the Government, and she didn't. Why are such ugly words and such comparisons not worth a man? It's not worth a man, and I must say that I'm also emotionally affected by it. Long-term care, indeed, is the area of care most frequently received by the elderly, the rarer children and people in the middle life period, and here is the difference between personal assistance and long-term care. Long-term care services need people, I stress once again, because due to the age of physical or mental illness and disability they are unable to perform basic and supportive daily activities for a longer period of time. That's what this is about. And something is true, the Slovenians here are specific and there is also a specific. In the case of older people, there is a great desire to take care of them at home. Perhaps each of us has an elderly mother, an elderly father, an aunt, an uncle, whatever. We Slovenians are known to be attached to our property or home and to deal with changing the environment, especially in the older period of life, yes, nothing new. And yet this law responds to this particular feature in Slovenia. The fact is, if he stays at home, home in certain cases is a better environment for the care of the elderly. That's a fact. Each of us had met with this when he could put his older or old father or his mother in a home. Because everyone prefers to be home by the last minute, until the last minute everything is trying to stay as long as possible in some home supply. Because it is a place of emotional physical association of memories, comfort and institutional protection, often accompanied by some bad feeling, perhaps even depression. And I'm also going to say home care is very important and it's right to introduce it, it's time to introduce it also so that the family is together during the illness, and it's also part of life and it's right that it's possible. If I read some data from the Statistical Office of Slovenia that are available. In Slovenia, the proportion of people aged 65 or over 19.7% in 2019 was 20.2% in January 2020. So, yes, Slovenia is a fast-growing society. Projections for 2050, although we have projections, if you look at it, I really do say well in comparison again, these are projections in Germany and they're done there for the year 2060, we were doing a projection for 2050. Well, these projections for 2050 predicted that the share would rise to 30%. The proportion of older than 80 years after projections will also increase to 11.4 per cent in 2016 in 2050. [[Incomprehensible]] This is what the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about, and I think we're hunting the last train to adopt the law. In 2017, 64 thousand 433 people benefited from services and cash supplements for long-term care. Of these, about 35.5, about 22 thousand 900 people benefited from monetary supplements for services in institutions. The proportion of people who benefited from long - term care at home was 34.9 percent, about 22 thousand and 500. It is said that long-term care in some way works now. However, it is right that long - term care is fully arranged in one place. Of course, even if you look at funding sources compared to other countries, they are different and different across European Union countries, which means that long-term care can be part of health and social systems. In Slovenia and some other European countries, long-term care is financed through public resources, in foreign countries also through compulsory social insurance, and also provides monetary compensation or coupons to pay for formal or informal care. But it is true that at the time of the epidemic, we felt that the elderly, who, when we limit contact and association, were further exposed to loneliness. And it is with the help of, I will say, modern technologies too, I think it is appropriate to make this possible in the future, because many elderly people are already using mobile phones, other technologies, and it is right to prepare for this at some point in time. Changes and new forms of long-term care, as you said, yes, will be introduced gradually. No one's going to fall out. I think that's enough to make sure no one turns out. And again, let me tell you what it's like, by which pillars the use of rights is set. The first pillar is the formal care in the institution, the second is the formal care at home, the third is the cash receipt and the fourth provider of the family member. Long-term care for care in the institution and for the provider of the family member is possible in the coming year and others after 2 years, according to 2024. Of course, we anticipated that it would probably be necessary to adopt or provide a law that would guarantee, a law on compulsory health insurance for long-term care, but the principle is just out of this need, from these changes, how to ensure family care, how to ensure long-term care, how, as it changes, I support it to be introduced gradually, because things in life are changing the needs of each individual. And let me just say, the provider of the family member, finally, it finally comes into marriage. I think that, in all these years, there has been little work done in this area in all governments. Finally, the work will be financially evaluated to the greatest extent by those staying at home, holding 3 corners of the house and helping and caring for the family member. And these women, those who give up for others, will be allowed to receive 1.2 times the minimum wage. Anyone who opposes this, however, admits this informal work and concerns that each individual should answer his own question as to how he sees it. And don't justify on Saturday how the law was passed and how the amendments were walked, here's something more, here's a note, here's a justice, but we'll admit it to everyone at home who cares for their loved ones. And more than that, even 21 days will receive a supply refund, that is to say an allowance or an allowance for 21 days or some kind of assistance. In short, long-term care of all governments full of mouths. I'm gonna do it again. Comrade Prikl, who is now said to be in the SD, was then a representative of Desus, he said every time I asked the Labour Committee when long-term care would be provided, he said in March. When March arrived, I asked when the long-term care would be, May. When May arrived, I asked when the long-term care would be, we wanted to see it, we wanted to see the law, he said, November. Well, then the government has fallen, and there's nothing since November. I am glad that today is still November and that the law on long-term care will still be passed in n-years. I look forward to this because I know that we will help many, that we will not only burden family members, but those who, as the Secretary of State has said before, pay extra for the care of their neighbors, who, because we do not have long-term care fully regulated, have to put their loved ones in a home for the elderly. I live in the country. Personally, I didn't meet my old mother directly to a nursing home, and I know it's not easy. And if we have a marriage before us that allows these elderly people to stay at home in the family circle, who can oppose this marriage? Who can be against this law? Is it true, as Comrade Duck said, that was his word, or have we really forgotten to be human? Today we're talking about the elderly, our own, a few years from now it's us. I know, we can't be attached to our families, to our homes, I know. But you know what, it's a modern term. If you're a man in yourself, then you like to stay where you live and love your own. Finally, indeed, today we have this long - term provision that will make it possible for us to do so. I look forward to it. I can also say in person, my mom said at 80 who went into surgery now, but if I can't, I'll get an assistant – yes, it is. And I hope that not only my mother will get it, but everyone who wants it, based on today's long-term care law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am very pleased that this debate is going as well as it is that Members and Members can say what we think, and yet we stick to some point of the topic that we are discussing. I can say at the outset that the amendment, as proposed in Article 2, will not be supported by the Left. I would also like to tell those who have a great deal of concern about what will happen after this mandate, and I can tell them very clearly that this government will continue its mandate for the next 4 years. I am sure that voters and voters will be able to assess who is the operative and who is the one who works for people and who is the one who does the studies. Then I must also focus very much on some of the details that have been said here today, and I feel that they are complete madness or nonsense, and should not be said, especially of anyone sitting in this Parliament. Today, Masha Kociper said, from the SAB, where, among other things, they declare how they defend the elderly, how they defend the pensioners and so on, she said the following: we will do everything to ensure that this law is not adopted. It's a quote. In her implementation, she quoted: we will do everything we can to ensure that this law is not adopted. That's crazy. This is a first-class madness, it can, it cannot, it cannot sit in this House. Then I'll tell you why. Then we heard from the Left, I think their Head of Parliament, who, among other things, said: there are still some laws waiting for this law to be passed to come to the National Assembly in the procedure - because of this law we will not support. That's crazy. Thus, good solutions that are on hold and that will come to the National Assembly, because they are people, must be prevented in every way. And before I go any further, I'm going to say another sentence, just what ambiguities there are in some of the duplicity of some parliamentary groups. Look, why am I gonna say this? Look what Kordish wrote in his tweet. I'm going to read this tweet now. Look at him, customer Left: Whoever has an apartment so large that it can't be sucked in in fifteen minutes, he needs to be nationalized. It's a blessing to everyone. My dear friends. This is total madness. Why? As I speak on the one hand, the Left declares how they support the socially disadvantaged, etc. On the other hand, they tell their grandchildren, their grandchildren, their parents, their parents, their hard work, their bloody work, and one small apartment, one house, they need to be nationalized or confiscated if they can’t do so, one mother, who is 80 years of age in fifteen minutes. Therefore, I warn my grandchildren, grandchildren, parents and old parents to be very careful when they give their voice and give it to them in the next election. Then someone from one party said that this government was rushing to get this law and parliament to adopt this law as soon as possible because money was waiting somewhere in Brussels, because if this law was not adopted, there would be no money in Slovenia. So whoever says this in this House is working against the Slovenian people, against the Slovenian people, is saying that everything will be done so that the money from Brussels will not come to Slovenia, regardless of whether it is to the detriment of its own country. Again the madness of madness that no normal person can understand. Now, my dear colleagues, we all know here in Parliament that the law on long-term care is urgently needed. Ospa Alenka Bratušek also said that this law is absolutely necessary, but we are not in favour of voting for it. Yeah, now I don't understand what the problem is. But, and it's two-faced, I just can't understand it. We all know that marriage is necessary. See, all the governments so far have had the opportunity to bring this law to the parliamentary bench, the government of Janez Janša, this coalition, these participating parties, and who today will support this law, I believe this, because it is people, it is the future and long-term care is one of the key projects of all countries practically in the world, due to the ageing of the population. And then there were a lot of words about not being funded. Madam Secretary of State, some Members and Members, but I will not go now to read the articles of this law, they have told you very clearly, the funds are provided by 2025, and, of course, Mrs State Secretary has also made it very clear today that this is only logical, this is a law where funds will also have to be provided further. But in line with the needs that will be revealed, but this law is fundamental, it is a system law that covers an extremely wide and highly exposed area. And thank God this government brought him to the table. Thank God. And this coalition today, and also Members and Members of Parliament, I ask and believe in the well-being of our citizens and citizens to adopt this law. Marriage can be built up, but if you don't have a roof marriage, it's hard to change it, it's hard to upgrade and it's hard to build on something that isn't. But this law is absolutely the one that is necessary for a long-term solution to this problem, which is called long-term care. You remember yourself very well, and I can tell you very clearly, it's not almost a week that someone doesn't call me and ask for it, so give me a hand so that I can come or my mom or my dad can come to a nursing home. Then it's an alarming state, it says, 10,000 people are almost waiting outside to come, but because this law does not only save people in a nursing home, that we will also help people at home, that as many people as possible will be at home, and that care will be provided. This is also one of the key things in this law, and there are still a lot of such solutions, and then someone says that they will not support it just because, according to his assessment, this law cannot go through, because they could get me some money from the European budget and so on and so forth, which I have listened to today. But if that's the right explanation and if the right arguments are why you're working against your own people, then I really don't know what else to say. Indeed, such Members and Members of this Parliament cannot sit. This question will be answered by people, believe me, in April, most likely in April. I'm very proud to believe that. People can't be underestimated. I don't know what's behind them, but they're trying to manipulate lies, and I don't know what they're going to do. People will be Slovenes and Slovenians are enough or citizens and citizens to avoid making the wrong claim are sufficiently capable of making the right decision. Believe me, the one we're dealing with is the one we're working for the cause, the one we're working for the people of this government, John Janša, and this coalition is working for the people. By adopting solutions as important as these are, among other things, very much or one of the most important things in the future of long-term care. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm just going to read those 10 points that are a red thread through this marriage. One more time to understand what this law is saving. In particular, the objectives and principles of the law. The precise definition of the definition of long-term care, the unification of legal bases governing long-term care rights, the definition of the content and scope of rights and the set of long-term care services, the establishment of a single assessment mechanism for entering the long-term care system, the establishment of a comprehensive universally accessible, geographically and financially sustainable and accessible long-term care system for the beneficiary, who wants to enable the relevant assistance to remain as long as possible in the home environment and the seventh point at the centre of the long-term care system to be set up by the individual who chooses, within his right, a way to provide long-term care. Managing increasing private financing to an individual who increases the risk of poverty and, in particular, the older population, improving planning, management and quality assurance, ensuring the effectiveness of long-term care management as a public service, establishing effective public oversight in the area of long-term care management. These are the red thread of the Long-Term Care Act. If anyone can oppose it, something must be very wrong with him. I'd be happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs Natasa Sukić has a procedural basis first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u212	Madam President, please, three things I will make a procedural suggestion. The first is that Member Pojbič uses the correct mask because he violates the decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on which mask is correct. Now, of course, the Member has left the room and will be joyfully wearing the wrong mask to go on. Second thing. Before that, our colleague Tanko stopped us all the time because we were discussing the amendments strictly. We listened here before the election video of Ambassador Pojbich. I think he deserves a strong reminder. Third thing. Ambassador Pojbič shows the fight that Mr Kordiša's Twitter tweets by not having a Twitter profile at all, but apparently it is a false Twitter profile I know who produces false Twitter profiles of various nettles and so on and then Facebook profiles write such things and then populism stuff in sessions. Please also remind Member Pojbič not to show false tweets produced by anyone we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. I also agree with your first proposal that I have noticed that colleague Pojbič has the wrong mask, but from this position, where I am in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the House Rules, I do not have any authority to warn him at all, let alone anything else. As far as the debate is concerned, I did not know that my colleague Kordiš does not have a Twitter profile, because I do not use it myself, and I do not read it myself, but I will not substantively define myself until the discussion of my colleague Pojbič, but it is true that his debate, like the debate of any other colleague today, was very broad, a little wider, and he was using some specific way in which I did not intervene on purpose, because I did not intervene before and did not feel right. So much for your answer. Anything else? My friend Kordish. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Member Pojbič of the SDS has once again shown a fabricated tweet on which the threat of nationalization of apartments is attributed to me, where it is talked about suction in 15 minutes and I do not know what else. I don't use Twitter as a social network myself, nor have I ever, and this Twitter is a pure fiction, this tweet is a pure fiction and a fake. Who in this country is creating false Twitter profiles, and so we know, remember the Kopriva affair and some other strategy from the Trstenjak basement, so-called, creating online echo chambers. But why did I sign up for procedural intervention is as follows. What I have just said, so that I do not use Twitter profile, that that tweet about housing, vacuum cleaners and nationalization is a pure fiction, I have already handed Pojbič over once and told him that today's session was not the first one to have been accompanied by A3 banners with this fake tweet, but Member Pojbič still does not stop. He continues to discredit me. He makes me feel sorry for me. He does everything he can to drag my name over the mud. And, of course, I expect an apology because he obviously does it consciously and does it deliberately, as it were, with a view to discrediting. I expect an apology, but I also predict that, if this does not happen, we will consider a civil suit against Mr Pojbič in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u215	Yes, thank you very much. Let me give you an answer. It did not justify the Institute of the Rules of Procedure, so that this is practically not a procedural proposal which would, or which would allow me to request or propose any of the Members of the Pojbič. With regard to those statements he had in his debate, I should only reply to my colleague Sukič, for she had previously proposed an earlier warning statement because of her opinion that the Member was referring to non-truths. In the case of a violation, the remark is, it is said, a reminder can be given if it is a violation of the rules of procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly, and I estimate that the colleague Pojbič had a purely correct discussion and had not violated any order and would therefore not receive any warning. Now we have exhausted the procedural proposals. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Only, I see the hand of a fellow Horvath. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary-General, Mrs Forte, Secretary of State, Mr Uršič, dear colleagues and colleagues. My debate may be in some atmosphere that I have been living through, but I have had this privilege, on Monday and Tuesday, on the occasion of a visit by the Government in the statistical region of Pomurje, where I also visited two extremely important homes of older citizens. It was a privilege to meet again with a slightly larger number of these citizens, many of whom I know, and such meetings are unforgettable and of immense value. And in fact, this law is primarily intended for them. Of course, not just the elderly, not just the elderly, but those who need long - term care. Surely we, when we are on different political shores, can have different concepts, which is good. But then, in the end, he wins the parliamentary debate and the vote, the concept that gets more votes. I can only be grateful for all the work and effort that stakeholders have put into trying to regulate this area in recent decades, i.e. for two decades. And all this work, this effort, all this has made an important contribution to the content of the long-term care bill. In this law we propose eight points, which is crucial. Beneficiaries with comparable needs should freely access comparable rights. Secondly, beneficiaries should choose between the different rights and forms of services and the environment where they wish to use them. Thirdly, the beneficiaries should have access to new services, including services for strengthening and maintaining their independence, as well as at their home. Fourthly, co-financing of E-services. Fifthly, we're improving the status of today's family helpers. Six, system-wide arrangements for improving working conditions and training of staff in the area of long-term care. Week, effective control of the quality and safety of services received by users. And eight times, greater transparency in the use of public resources. That is the eight points that are crucial in the solutions brought by this law. All the observations we've been listening to, I'm not going to pay any attention to this. The thing about an individual's image is the vocabulary he uses. Everyone is also the master of his word. Of course, I can say that this marriage is not ideal because no marriage is ideal. As long as we do not have a law adopted in the National Assembly, we do not have to correct it or optimize it. The secretary of state said it very well at first. This is an extremely dynamic law. We don't know what's gonna happen in two years, in three years, in five years, in another epidemic, God forbid, and so on. But we, the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of power, must be the ones who will be able to adapt and to take care of the dignity of man, which is one of the key pillars of our general programme of New Slovenia. This is about the dignity of a man and, in fact, I can hardly say anything else. Funding. Of course, every thing has to be financed, every service. Long-term care is extremely important. But now we're going to go explain to the older users of these services and so on from which items we're going to take and so on. You know, thank God, even though we are still in the epidemic, the virus still has a tremendous impact on the Slovenian economy, on Slovenian society, on our lives. Nevertheless, we can find out about the economic indicators and I can conclude and say, Slovenia is rich enough, thank you point, rich enough that we should not ask and tell her how much it will cost. These are our people and our country, a democratic country in the heart of Europe must take care of its people. And I am pleased that it is in this government that a political will has been formed that has led to results called sufficient or extremely high financial resources to improve the standard of our elderly citizens and citizens. I'm not just thinking about building a home here right now, because maybe some people are having a hard time listening. I'll make special reference to the adaptation of the old homes. We once built, built on some other architectural concepts, and we put, excuse me, in one room five, six tenants. Today, this standard is much higher thanks to God, and therefore a huge amount of funds are being invested directly from the EU's React to regulate the living situation, say, according to the concept of a household community. Two to the room, tops. And so on. And I am glad that we can, both Europe and Slovenia, find enough financial resources to make this happen. And I saw great joy on people's faces when we explained and told them these two days. Now, it is true that Slovenia has been preparing such a law since 2002, as we have been reminded of the need for more effective regulation by both the professional and the lay public. Thus, the professional and lay public reminds us that it has been necessary to regulate this area for almost two decades. After all, we were reminded of the need for roof law by a very loud epidemic of infectious covid-19 disease. And our common desire is that, with the Long-Term Care Act, we create the conditions that long-term care will be accessible, accessible, quality and safe and that in times of life, when we become dependent on the help of another person, no one will remain neglected, as Minister Poklukar has said several times. Long - term care is not intended for the elderly alone, as it may sometimes be misinterpreted, as the need for long - term care is growing. And all these different needs are extremely difficult to include in marriage, and this is supposed to be ideal. It's just not possible. There are so many stakeholders, so many desires, so many needs that it is simply very difficult to make an ideal law, so I insist that it must be an extremely dynamic law, which must be given sufficient attention by the legislative branch of power every time and in fact optimized by it. As far as the amendment to the second article is concerned, we have already said that our support cannot be obtained, but we will, of course, support all the coalition and only coalition amendments we have signed. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. To the debate [[…]] Can I help you, Madam Secretary of State? In this article, first. We'll get through this. Now we have to deal with all the other amendments first. If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude and move on to the third article. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups and the amendment of the Levica Group of Members. Nobody wants to discuss it, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. There's no desire to discuss it, I conclude. I am putting to the debate Article 7 as well as the amendments of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups and the amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC. The word wants mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There's talk about how to take the public network into account in long-term care. Our proposal, namely, the Social Democrats and the SAB, is to be taken into account as a criterion for disabled persons as well. There's a hundred reasons, but I don't think I have to explain them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SAB and SD members' groups and the amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. By 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 and 33, the amendments of the Levica Group have been tabled and are substantively linked, and are also the substantive amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups to 26 and 29, so we will discuss them together. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u220	Thank you. Since this law is also a form of personal assistance, although they are separate laws, we propose to be here in a similar way, i.e. Three-member commission, introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 68 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 88 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 90 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 94 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 118 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the LMŠ Group to Articles 127 and 131, which are substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 154, and we will therefore discuss these amendments together. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 128 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 129 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 130 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 134 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 135 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. The amendments of the SAB and SD groups to Articles 136 and 157 are substantively linked and we will therefore discuss all amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 136 and 157, and the two amendments of the SAB and SD groups to the articles, the amendment of SD and SAB to Article 153, the two amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 136 and 153, and the two amendments of the Levic Group of Ambassadors to Article 136 and 153. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u222	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Also on the basis of NGOs, we take into account their argument that the allowance for service, assistance and service is not a social transfer, but a right from insurance, i.e. the right from ZPIZ-2 and therefore we cannot make it a social right. Therefore, we propose that in essence the article be deleted and the current regulation in the PPIZ remains. In Article 153, we follow the position of the Happy Legs Society, and they have experience in how a family assistant should act. And we just followed their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u223	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 140 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 141 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 143 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 146 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 150 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward the last amendment, i.e. Article 151 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SMC. And at the same time, Secretary of State, you've wanted a word before. Now's the last chance. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. You have a proposal for a long-term care law ahead of you. The law provides answers to the challenges we face as a society under existing long-term care arrangements. The bill builds on the system of social security care and home care. This is a system law that will regulate long-term care in the Republic of Slovenia by providing conditions for accessible, quality and safe care, which will allow comparable rights for insured persons over the age of 18 regardless of where they live in the Republic of Slovenia. The Long-Term Care Act represents a new pillar of social security. The law places a person at the centre who decides on the way rights are exercised under the Long-Term Care Act. The emphasis in marriage is to bring the services closer to the individual’s home so that the beneficiaries can stay as long as possible in their home environment. The law defines the network, the state and local communities develop it together and build it. The law allows formal care in the institution, at home, introduces a new institution of the provider of the family member and the possibility for the beneficiary to decide on the remuneration. It introduces services for strengthening and maintaining independence and co-financing e-supply. Under the law, municipalities, beneficiaries and their relatives are burdened financially. The law clearly defines rights and the set of services will adapt to individual needs. With the new arrangement, the services will be accessible to the debtors in the institutions as they are now, and at the home where we now have great mania and inequality. The rights under this Act shall be introduced gradually until 2024, when the law is fully in force when all forms are implemented. The proposed funding is therefore appropriate. The State undertakes to draw up a mandatory health insurance law by the end of 2024. An important role is assigned to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the deadlines for preparing the Institute itself with amendments are extended. For operators in the system, i.e. in the system, homes for older people and other social security institutions, automated arrival into the new system is envisaged. Similarly, insurers in these institutions are converted through translation scales to new rights, not bureaucraticly. Insurers will not even notice that they now have rights governed by another law. Most are beneficiaries and their relatives, who today, mostly or in full, bear the financial burden of not talking about the care of all those at home who are drowsy and old and are committed to doing a job. The cost of installation and nutrition remains a burden for users in institutions, and the content and rights of the law are newly covered by this law from public sources. The law also grants equal rights to insured persons who are entitled to the same services at home that they have, who are currently placed in their homes and who will be placed at home will be equalized. However, the rights of health-care providers, which are compulsory health insurance rights, remain for all insurers. As a society, we are responsible for establishing a system that will be fair, solidarity, quality and will address all those who are needed and justified under this law. Only when the law is passed can we start implementing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on State Administration's Competitions in the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for digital transformation, mag. Peter Gershek, Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u226	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you is the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration from now on, I will name it ZDU-1m, which basically brings two changes to the area of religious freedom, where it is proposed to transfer from the Ministry of Culture to the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for religious communities and the field of information society and electronic communications, where a transfer from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for digital transformation is proposed. Allow me to introduce the area of religious freedom first. The proposal of the ZDU-1m provides that the area of religious freedom, in order to ensure a greater degree of autonomy in the performance of tasks and the nature of tasks in the field of religious freedom as a fundamental part of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights, is to bring this only from the Ministry of Culture to the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for religious communities. It shall be arranged to take up the documentation together with the proportionate work of the means provided for this purpose in the current financial plan of the Ministry of Culture. There will be no additional financial implications for the adopted budgets in 22 and 23 years, as existing and funded tasks in the field of religious freedom are being carried over, while they are not being carried over in accordance with the agreement on staff. The Act on Internal Organisation and Systematisation of Jobs, the Ministry of Culture and the Cabinet of the President of the Government will be prepared. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt this Act on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia competent for religious communities within 15 days of the entry into force of the Act. Now, allow me to introduce to you the field of information society and electronic communications. The proposal of ZDU-1m also provides that this area is transferred from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Digital Transformation Service. Due to the proposed change, the implementation of digitisation and digital transformation tasks will be less diversified and therefore more effective. The field of information society and electronic communication has an important place in the development of the country, as it is an area of a substantively distinct horizontal nature that is more suitable for the effective performance of tasks in the context of a self-employed service directly under the government. The Republic of Slovenia aims to become one of the most digitally developed countries in the European Union in this decade and also has ambitions to play a more visible role in the international environment and it is therefore necessary to combine these tasks to achieve effective functioning in the digital transformation service. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the task in the field of information society and electronic communication, the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking over. The acquisition of public servants, equipment and documentation is regulated, together with a proportionate portion of the funds provided in the current financial plan of the Ministry of Public Administration. The Act on the Organisation and Work Area of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Digital Transformation shall be aligned with the amended provisions of the laws within 15 years of the entry into force of the ZDU1M [[?]] . As regards the financial implications for the adoption of the budget 2021 and 2023, there will be no transfer of existing and funded tasks from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter thus means transferring about 30 public officials around because some are still in Brussels at the Information Service Directorate, at the same time as the planned funds for the projects themselves. With a view to transferring the work area of the information society and electronic communication from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the transitional provisions of all laws governing the competence and authorities in the field of information society and electronic communications shall be aligned with the transitional provisions of this Act. So, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to consider the proposal ZDU1M following a reduced procedure, the proposed amendment constitutes a less difficult amendment to the law, the transfer of the area, as I mentioned, of religious freedom, and information society and electronic communications within the competence of the two ministries of government at its 292nd letter meeting on 11 November, the Government also gave its consent to the amendments to the proposal of the ZDU1M, which address the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly concerning the organisation of the Republic of Slovenia's Digital Transformation Service, and the proposal ended its consideration at the meeting of the Home Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government on 12. 11. where these amendments have also been adopted. Thank you very much. I suggest you support the ZDU1M proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law is, as a parent working body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government therefore, in order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the mags. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 57th emergency meeting on 12 November this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Dr Ignacija, presented the changes and stressed that this is a more effective form in which the Government wants to ensure greater autonomy, especially in the field of religious freedom, so we would transfer the current powers from the Ministry of Culture, together with all that it forms to a special government service. In addition, the content of the law is also a transfer of the field of information society and electronic communications with the powers of the Ministry of Public Administration to the relevant Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, too, the objective is to be more efficient and more independent at the same time. In the light of the discussion in the short debate, the question of the purpose of the recast was raised a few months before the elections, but then it prevailed in the vote by adopting all the proposed amendments, namely the SDS, NSI and SMC coalition groups, and then by final vote all the articles, together with the amendments adopted, were adopted, 10 votes in favour and 4 against. In the light of the amendments adopted, an appropriate complementary text has been drafted, which forms part of this report and we propose that the National Assembly should adopt them. Thank you. that the National Assembly accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Robert Polnar. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The main focus of the amendment of the Law on State Administration is the transfer of the work areas of digitisation and electronic communications from the Ministry of Public Administration to the service of the Government for digital transformation. Twenty years ago, it was impossible to imagine the dimensions and development of digital technology, as we today find it difficult to imagine that most of the applications that we will use in ten years have not been invented at all. Digital business has become a way of private and public life, covering electronic banking, insurance, marketing and trading, teaching, public sector business, consulting and distance auctions. The degree of development and use of digital services is becoming an indispensable element of the competitive advantages of individual countries in the global economy. In Slovenia, before 2000, the Ministry of Information Society acted alone, performing tasks in the fields of computer science, information technology, telecommunications, information technology, mail and information society development. In 2004, this ministry was abolished. The tasks from the fields of electronic communications, mail and industrial projects were transferred to the Ministry of Economy. The objectives of facilitating the information society in areas outside the work areas of other ministries and coordinating work in the field of the information society were transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology at the time. Later, the areas of information and digitisation were classified in the Department of Public Administration. Organising is the process of regulating the organisation, the process of its operation and the relations between people. Organising the organisation is one of the most demanding human activities. The fact is, no government can ignore the close development of digitisation and the new organisational paradigm. The reality is complex and can only be understood by taking this complexity into account at the same time, but above all, it is not deterministic. The government is an organizational system. Like any organisation, the Government also has a free hand in designing its structure of organisation, structure, or prudent distribution of organisational capacities on various organisational bases. The organisational capacity shall, however, represent all the human resources, material, financial and other available resources within the organisation that ensure the achievement of the organisational objectives. The processes of digital transformation in Slovenia are designed, guided and led by the Government for digital transformation. As of this July, it has been run by a minister without a licence, which gives it specific meaning. It is right to redefine or supplement its powers, powers and responsibilities by means of legal changes if it is to carry out public tasks effectively and effectively. Members of the Desus Group support such a change of law. However, it is slightly different with regard to the transfer of the area of religious freedom from the Ministry of Culture to the cabinet of the President of the Government. We have not heard the reasons for this decision. In doing so, it is of secondary importance when this decision will be made. Government services are responsible for organisational, professional and other support activities in the functioning of the Government where we cannot place the area of religious freedom. Is the weight of this concern greater than the importance of regulating areas of digitisation and electronic communications? That's the one like lead a heavy dilemma. Members of the DESUS Group have different views and views on this and we will also vote in accordance with these beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Janja Slug, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u232	In the Group of Unaffiliated Members and Members of the ruling coalition, we do not waive the legitimate and legal right to regulate the functioning of the executive branch of the government led by amendments to the Law on State Administration. By transferring the information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government Digital Transformation Service, the Directorate for the Information Society is being transferred. As you know, at the July session, the National Assembly appointed Mark Boris Adriančič to be Minister without a résor. We did not support this appointment in the parliamentary group. Not because we would have estimated that the candidate would not be competent for this function, but because we were then assessing that this was a pear story. After defeating the referendum on the Waters Act, the catastrophic beginning of the EU Presidency, the Constitutional Court's decision and the fundamental novels of the Law on Infectious Diseases, rejected by members of the coalition themselves, and could also list, it would require a good, positive political story that its government, though reactive or reversed in the past, is portrayed as a progressive and modern government that understands future trends and has a prepared response to them. In addition, it is our assessment that political improvisation has also taken place, since neither the new minister nor the new government service are a crucial condition for Slovenia's further digitisation steps, as has already been demonstrated by Cerar's government and in this coalition for the information society by the competent Ministry of Public Administration of Mags. Bostian Kortnik. Three months before the appointment of the new Digitalisation Minister, the Prime Minister estimated that he did not need a special government digitalisation base at all and that only a consultative body for digitisation was sufficient. Not to mention the fact that digitisation is one of the priorities of the recovery and resilience plan for which the projects have been prepared by the reserve ministers, which, despite the new minister, will continue to lead. The only consequence of the appointment of a new minister is therefore, and this is also the purpose of this law, that the field of the digital and information society, or the Directorate for the Information Society, is to move under the auspices of the new government service. And it's been more than four months since the appointment of a minister. Until this reception, the powers of this Minister shall be limited. Apart from performing at various seminars, conferences, visits and participations at government meetings, the Minister cannot do another – because he has no authority over anything else. We are therefore surprised by the fact that in the Group of Unaffiliated Members and Members of Parliament, the Minister without a portfolio, which only receives powers under this law, boasts the most recent classification of Slovenia on the table of the Digital Economy Index and DESI. Slovenia has risen from 16th to 13th place in the last year and has thus for the first time prevailed over the European average. The new minister does not have any credit for ranking Slovenia on this scale. Some would say he's a whale with foreign feathers. The minister can be seen in a number of roadside jumbo panels, with which voters are addressed by an advertising slogan from one of the political parties that talks about results. The results in this form cannot be shown at all by this Minister. Perhaps one of you has read the insightful book of a journalist at the British guard officer and writer Francis Wayne entitled How Mistlers Ruled the World. In it, the author points out, in a publicist-documentary way, that is to say, by mentioning specific cases, the increasing appearance of blisters and general references, which are without any particular shame. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the efforts of politicians are used to talk voters out of it. Any other comment would be superfluous. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, we will abstain fully in voting on this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u234	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the last year and a half, we hear about digitisation and information society at every turn. Most people don't. There are certainly urgent changes in this area, but not on the nose. There has been little investment in digitisation and information systems in recent decades. I don't know why now that we have much more work to do with Covid, we still have to deal with the transfer of authority. I do not understand why it is now necessary to regulate the transfer of religious freedom from the Ministry of Culture to the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for religious communities, why the proposal now attempts to regulate the transfer of the field of information society and electronic communications, from the Ministry of Public Administration, to the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for digital transformation. I absolutely agree that changes are needed in this area, but I do not think that the current path is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u236	Your Honor! Every Government has no doubt the right to create jobs in such a way as to be as effective as possible and to shape all areas of social life in such a way as to achieve the best possible results and best development. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of the proposed law, proposes two; to transfer the service of religious freedom from the current organisation, it is said, from the Ministry of Culture, to a special government service, thereby giving it greater importance and also greater autonomy and, on the other hand, to make an appropriate change in the organisation in the field of digital transformation, it is said that the service, which is now within the Ministry of Public Administration, is transferred to the special service of the Government, which has already been organised and managed by the Minister without a source. This also seeks to achieve faster and more efficient work, which is already giving, even in the current form of results, but to further accelerate and achieve all that Slovenia deserves and what remains to be done in this area, in order to achieve that place in the globalised world that we are certainly doing. For this reason, it is certainly necessary to adopt the proposed amendments, which we unitedly support in the SDS, and for the reason that this is a compromise that allows the adoption of the whole law, we will also agree on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the LMŠ, we believe that the National Assembly should deal with more serious legislative proposals than today. On the tables, we get a glue, a glue from some reminders, and a reminder was once that this government would have a minister for digitisation. And so far, the government's digitalization service has produced a number of battles. The government put a minister there, but now he suddenly finds out he doesn't have any people. It was important then to appoint a minister and at the hiring we asked him if he knew the difference between government service and the ministry so he wouldn't make too much promises about what he would do. And he said he knew. He said he'd set up a small and agile team to lean on the team of the Strategic Council for digitization, the team of experts and operatives. But this team is obviously not here right now, so they're moving public servants to the government. By the way, the state administration's system is still a little down, and this is not the only thing this government and the coalition are going to bring down at home. And what else are you doing with the change of law? Again with one swing you interfere with several laws, this time in seven, which is probably as many hits as there were when in the legal information system the key was typed by the Ministry of Information Society. The proposed amendment refers to the transfer of the field of information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Public Administration to the new service. The essence of this is that the proposed transfer of the two labour administrative areas of the ministries and thus the exercise of administrative tasks in these two areas in the government service is certainly controversial from a legal systemic point of view. Administrative tasks are carried out by ministries, government services are responsible for carrying out organisational, professional and other assistance in the functioning of the government and ministries. And that's what we're saying in the LMSH, and we're saying that's not how it works. In order not to make a mistake, the transfer of public servants in itself is not even problematic, but what will be achieved if the Government, by means of a proposal, only represents the same group of people who are already carrying out the tasks of the digital society and electronic communications to the new minister. So, in hundreds of days, the minister has only been able to find out that he will perform a digital transformation by leading the same group of people that Minister Koritnik has led so far. So we have two digitisation ministers, but only one team of people that we are moving here and there, of course, which is completely unproductive and this is just a new example of red tape a few months before the elections. As well as the transfer of the area of religious freedom from the Ministry of Culture to the government service for religious communities. Of course, this is also a broader issue, not just the question of bureaucracy. Last year, the government abolished the Office of Religious Communities. It abolished the Council for Dialogue on Religious Freedom. She set up a Council for Unsolvable Questions with the Catholic Church. Is there also an unresolved question in relation to other religious communities, and who will solve them? That's not clear. Of course, there is no explanation in the law. It is therefore intended to transfer the entire decision on the constitutional right to religious freedom directly to the Prime Minister. And if the subjugation of all social spheres is the basic driving force behind this government's action, in this case, it is now an attack on the field of religion. We will vote in the LMŠ against amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u240	Nice hello to you all! We see social Democrats not only as a right, but as a duty of any government to be organised by acting in the best possible way for the benefit of all of us. But in this light, you know, some government that adopts a law on 24th, which will enter into force 15 days after it is in the Official Journal, will fall into pre-godly time, then a little government will come to its senses, and then sells what, the story that will do something insane in this area. In the last two months, it's going to be pre-election or you're running it somehow right now. Then we have a story that a minister boasts after a hundred days about how much he has done, but in fact he has little sense of expressing himself in the way that the current Prime Minister will also understand that he has an army officer. And now I want to do this a little bit, but you know, there are customers and there are people who can also read methodologies. Social Democrats, we know them. This great praise by how we now jumped the ladder, some digital frequencies will be shared, the hook. Telecommunication operators are working on a G5 hook. Citizens and citizens must be drawn down by digital certificates, hook. Boom, cefisel, we're not 16, 13. Let's orgasm. That's part of the story. And after hundreds of days, they remember, wait, piss, if I'm the minister for something, and then there's obviously some legislation that I should be worried about, and as some speaker said in front of me, it gets a little messed up and throws you some seven things. That's the first part. The second part of the story is that the obvious area of religious communities is too free and must go under the urgent of someone called Marshal Tito, and that is, in fact, briefly this. And of course, the Social Democrats of Burlesque in question will not be supported relatively soon before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Today's law is proof that the Government is acting as if we are not just ahead of the elections and that these four months must be used as well as possible for the final destruction of all democratic and inclusive tools. With amendments to the law, the Government definitively raises the issue of religious freedom to exclusively the RCC and is definitively subordinated to the field of information society. As far as religious freedom is concerned, Vasko Simoniti was dissolved by the Office for Religious Communities, which worked within the Ministry of Culture at the end of 2020. The government has dissolved the Council of Government for Dialogue on Religious Freedom. Instead of both, the Government has set up a Council on outstanding issues with the RCC, which no one knows exactly what it is doing. So we had an expert body dealing with dialogue with all religious communities, which went into the nose of the RCC, which was critical to the work of the Office, because it was too busy dealing with other smaller religious communities. Janša is now setting up a government office, which, under the right political leadership, will meet exclusively or mainly the wishes of the RCC and will corner the other religious communities. The eccentric privilege of an already privileged RC, in short. But what is really bad is that during the new powers to reach the reach of John Janša, there will also be the removal of the church or religious community from the register and the decision to register a church or a religious community. But since the funeral of the current coalition will be on April 24th, it is necessary to hurry, and therefore the law will be adopted in an extraordinary session. What is most bizarre about all of this is the amendment prepared by the coalition for today's session. The government will assume powers immediately and the organisational transfer of the delay to 2024. The government coalition in dealing with this law is acting on all the rules in force in the National Assembly. The second set of amendments to this Act relates to the transfer of the field of information society from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government's Digital Transformation Service. In July this year, just nine months before the scheduled regular elections, the Minister without a digital transformation license was appointed. On 22 July, the Government issued a decree establishing and implementing the tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Digital Transformation Service, which does not give any original powers to this government service, but carries out its tasks in cooperation with the Ministry, while other tasks are more in the direction of awareness, monitoring, analysis, promotion and the like. However, Janez Janša will, by means of his service coalition through the Uber Minister, ensure a direct impact on specific administrative definitions in the field of the information society. And not only will the powers of other ministries be transferred to government service, but also of other state authorities, in a very sophisticated way, with transitional provisions. For example, the deployment of radio frequency bands and the conclusion of contracts after the construction of the broadband network will be under the direct influence of Janez Janša. Janez Janša kidnapped the country. We are witnessing the largest organised places that even past weapons affairs do not go to their knees. In the fact that he's about four months from now losing his election, he's in a hurry to submit what's yet to be done. There is no longer much time, so we accept all the laws at issue quickly and beyond all the established rules. And no, we're not overreacting. If someone does not believe us, let us take a look at the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which warns that the Government is using the powers of other ministries and bodies in a counter-constitutional way. Desus, NSI and SMC continue to be silent and shameless in fear of your chairs and privileges. In Levika, of course, we will vote against the amendment of the coalition and against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u244	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Law on State Administration proposed by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The law brings 2 major changes that will make it easier and better for the state administration to operate. The first change in the area of religious freedom in order to ensure a greater degree of autonomy in the performance of tasks is transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for religious communities. Another change coincides with the relocation of work processes, by the creation of a new Government Service for Digital Transformation, led by Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic. In Novi Slovenija we support the removal of the information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Public Administration and transferred to the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Christian Democrats believe that this proposed change in the implementation of the tasks in this area will make us more efficient and more transparent. The field of information society and electronic communications takes an important place in the development of the country, because it is an area of a substantively distinct horizontal nature, in order to carry out the tasks more effectively, it is more appropriate for them to be carried out within the framework of a self-employed service, which is classified directly under the government. The future of Slovenia is also in digitisation, so in the current coalition we are pleased to support the establishment of the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was established by the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Digital Transformation. The transitional provision of the Decree provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Digital Transformation Service shall carry out, in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration, inter alia, tasks which are intertwined with the field of information society and electronic communications. Of course, the following is that by implementing the proposed amendment of the law, the Digital Transformation Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes over the task in the field of information society and electronic communications. This solution is proposed with the aim of promoting digital development in all areas. It will enable more efficient and transparent implementation of tasks in this area and thus better operationalisation and better performance of the government's tasks. The Minister for Digital Transformation is confident that the implementation of measures in the field of digital transformation of public administration will strengthen people's confidence in electronic signing. The Minister's hard work is already showing first results. At a time when 100 days have passed since the establishment of the Government's Digital Transformation Service, which aims to ensure that Slovenia stays among the first 5 most digitally advanced countries in the European Union by the end of the decade. We Christian Democrats believe that this ambitious goal is achievable. This is also illustrated by the latest ranking of Slovenia on the digital economy index and DESI. Slovenia has risen from 16 cities to 13 cities in the last year and has thus first moved to the European average of the Member States in its history. The Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian Democrats will unanimously support the bill amending the Law on State Administration and Amendments to the Coalition. However, to Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic we want a wealth of digital achievements and the development of digital Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It's a good-bye to everyone. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration, which aims to ensure more effective and transparent implementation of the tasks of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Public Administration and of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for digital transformation, thereby improving the operationality and efficiency of the Government's tasks. The new law was introduced into the legislative procedure by the Government after a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and additions to the law itself. The proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration provides that the field of information society and electronic communications shall be removed from the Ministry of Public Administration and transferred to the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia by means of digital transformation. This transfer to the government service recently established for this purpose is particularly meaningful in the light of the digital sovereignty that the Republic of Slovenia is working towards. In order to achieve the objectives of amending the law, the acquisition of public servants, equipment and documentation is also regulated, together with a proportionate part of the resources provided for in the current financial plan of both the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Culture in the year of implementation of this Act. In the Group of Members, we believe that the changes bring about a rationalisation of the areas. We intend to implement the coalition treaty commitment until the next elections, and within five months we can do a lot more. In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u248	Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members. Just a few months before the elections, we received a bill from Members and Members of Parliament to deal with it which provides for the reorganisation of the state administration. It is common for each government to organise itself and coordinate the way it works in the SAB. It is less common for this to happen just before the elections. The proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration brings the area of religious freedom from the Ministry of Culture within the competence of the Government Service responsible for religious communities. Proposals as a reason for transposition state that the resolution of religious freedom issues should be addressed in a more comprehensive manner. This raises the question, why did the Minister for Culture end last year? However, according to some information, the Government is expected to re-plan the establishment of an office for this area. The Council for Dialogue on Religious Freedom was also disbanded, and instead the Government set up a Council for Unsolved Issues with the Catholic Church. The outstanding affairs of the remaining religious communities have now been placed in a drawer, because obviously they are not important enough, and thus the constitutional principle of equality of all religious communities has been ignored. A few months before the elections, the need for systematic regulation of the area of religious freedom again came to the fore. In the SAB, we cannot shake the feeling that such a change is linked to the upcoming electoral campaign. We have not been given any valid reason from the applicants to directly substantiate the transfer of the area of religious freedom under the government. The second set of solutions proposed relates to the transfer of the information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Public Administration to the newly established government digital transformation service. That such a transfer of powers is disputed in both cases, the Legislative and Legal Service also warned. In particular, the proposed solutions are disputed in that part which provides for the transfer of typical administrative tasks for which ministries or other administrative bodies are responsible for the law. As I have already mentioned, the usual practice is that each time a government organises and coordinates its own way of working. Therefore, we are even more surprised by the proposed amendments to the coalition, which will only take place in two years before the transfer of powers in the field of religious freedom. Hidden purposes in the background and various subsets have already become a constant in the functioning of the current government, so in the SAB we wonder what the actual purposes of the proposed reorganisation are. We will not support the proposed solutions in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles and the amendments tabled to Articles 11, 13 and 15. The amendments of the SDS, New Slovenia and the Modern Centre's Parties to Articles 11, 13 and 15 are substantively linked, so we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 11, 13 and 15 and the three amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Only one panellist has been reported. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Look, I've already said in my opening position what is the problem of this enforced, enforced, fast-track law, which is completely incomprehensible. First of all, we have here a really shameless attempt to eliminate smaller religious communities or other religious communities that do not fall within the framework of the Roman Catholic Church. It's an unheard-of thing. I don't even know how you imagine it. I mean, what does that say? That's amazing. It's direct discrimination, well, everyone who isn't a Roman Catholic religion. Why abolish the professional body involved in dialogue with all religious communities? Why? I'd like an answer to that, Madam Secretary of State, why. And why is an office now being set up to deal primarily with the questions of the Roman Catholic Church, why? As far as I know, we have always been in dialogue with both the Roman Catholic Church and other religious communities, and nothing was wrong with it. Why does this need to be changed? And worse still, today you have prepared an amendment that the government will just immediately seize these powers, organizationally, because it is a little more complicated and you are running out of time, and this will all be delayed in 2024. I really want to know what your problem is. What the Roman Catholic Church is deprived of. The Roman Catholic Church has always been and is and does not need additional privileges. I don't know why we'd be shagging and pushing other religions. Why? I mean, what do you say? That's direct discrimination, sorry. A discriminatory approach to members of other religions. I can't say anything else, and I'm an atheist myself, and I'm not a member of any religion now, but when I look at this from the point of view of equal opportunities, equal rights, I think it's a disaster. The second set of these changes is also very worrying. The transfer of the field of information society from the Ministry of Public Administration to the service of the Government for digital transformation is not only a problem if it is not a transfer of powers, not just other ministries, but also other state authorities. I mean, this means, at home, that it will be, say, a distribution, as I said, of radio frequencies or the conclusion of contracts to build, say, a broadband network and similar things under the direct influence of our Prime Minister. Directly. I really don't understand this control of frivolity or this obsession, the obsession that everything must be under the control of the Prime Minister directly or all or all of it, I mean, this horrifying attitude towards other religious communities. Why did the Office for Religious Communities, which worked within the Ministry of Culture, have to be dissolved in 2020? Really, please, the distinguished Secretary of State for this answer. And why has the government disbanded the Council of Government for Dialogue on Religious Freedom? Why? What was wrong with that? We really want to know. And why is it now being set up by the Council for outstanding issues with the RCC? What outstanding questions with the RC? And they've already got everything. What more do you want? What are these unresolved questions with the RC? What the hell else do you want? They do not pay taxes in this country, they have special privileges, such that they are literally a country in the country, or that the Vatican province is us, the whole country, if you like, is not enough for you. What else do you want? I am really interested in the concrete answers without you here imposing some quick procedures on us just some kind of law and not even telling us why. I demand these answers to these questions. So why, then, as far as religious matters are concerned and as far as the information society is concerned, I am also interested in why. Why is this particularly necessary, and in what way will this be better? What good will this bring, and to whom will this bring good? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that yes. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two candidates registered. The first one gets the word Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! Now, this was really insulting to all believers, as presented by colleague Natasha Sukič. Let me remind her that you probably live in a parallel world, not the SDS or President Janez Janša, because after all the polls and there's absolutely no fear of losing the SDS elections. But if I go back to the proposed amendment of the law. It was well said, but the two positions, which are quickly unrelated, can be fully linked from an organizational point of view. In fact, if we're talking about digital society, you know that, because we're supposed to know this area, you know that doesn't mean we elect a minister, and we do the ministry, and we set up a ficus and everything else. It means that we have someone in this country who will make sure that all key positions are linked. Because what do we want? We want a connection between the ministries. And if we can't get it in physical form for every change in this country that happens, we're going to get it through digital, through e-social. This is where we can get connections between the ministries. And this is where we want to establish it. It is therefore important that we give this minister the opportunity to establish this. Not the system as an institution, but as a connection. And what about religious freedom? It's a similar story. The State’s beliefs or efforts to cultivate dialogue with religious communities, all of them, and this is a lie that you say the Roman Catholic Church is privileged. There were meetings today or yesterday. The Evangelical Church does not belong to the Roman Catholic Church, no, so we'll know. It is said that dialogue takes place with everyone, and this is not just an area of culture, of religion, but an area of whole, it is said, of the whole human being and everything that belongs to the individual. That is why the country, and in all areas, should be able to cultivate this dialogue, and this will be the easiest way through what is proposed. And there's one more thing. So every day that doesn't work that's wasted on the deed is a lost day. This was also known by the retired former Prime Minister. And this government will work until the last day, until the last hour and in the last hour, then hand over the documents to the new ministers, to the new Prime Minister or to continue to lead them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Replica Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u254	Dear colleague, I don't know what I was being offensive about. In what? I asked myself why Vasko Simoniti, at the end of 2020, dissolved the Office for Religious Communities, which worked within the Ministry of Culture. Why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia dissolved the Council of Government for Dialogue on Religious Freedom. And why, instead of both, she set up a Council for Unsolved Issues with the RCC. As if other religious communities no longer exist. It's like she's the only saving RC. Is that insulting if you ask yourself that? Among us are members of other religious communities. You live not only on those who believe in the Christian God. There are various members of different religious communities among you, and there are atheists among you who do not believe in any of these gods. So, what are you gonna say to that? It seems to me that this eccentric privilege is already a privileged RDC, which has a special status in this company. You won't deny that the RCC is exempt from taxes and similar matters. Am I wrong? Is that an insult? That's not an insult. That's the truth. I'm afraid that's the truth. In addition, the state gives in, I don't know, the reconstruction of various chapels, the church and so on. In this way, the religious staff of the glyphs are supported financially by, so on, these social contributions and so on. Are you going to say it's not true? It's all true. And I don't know why she'd be insulting if I asked a legitimate question about why. And it is very worrying that the new powers of what you are going to do will, for example, be to delete the church or the religious community from the register if anyone wants to. Or the decision to register a church of a religious community. You will have all of this now, Your Honor. And my question is not offensive. It is an entirely legitimate issue of the Parliamentary National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Because it's not just me, it's the public's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your Honor, would you like a replica? No, no, no. Look, the replicas. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u256	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u257	Procedurally, but please do not use the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u258	I'm asking you procedurally according to the replication option, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u259	Look, you've had one such thing before, no matter what the Rules of Procedure allow, I won't allow a replica of the replica. But I'll call again if anyone else wants to discuss it. Rudy Bear has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Vice President. With regard to dialogue with religious communities in the last 30 years through the Office of Religious Communities, this dialogue between religious communities and the country has been going perfectly normal, I do not know where you saw the problem. The problem may have arisen after the office for religious communities was abolished. So what's gonna be better now? In fact, what was better when the office was abolished and is now incarcerated? We have a Council for Unsolved Questions with the Catholic Church. What is incomprehensible now that everyone is literally moving to the Cabinet of the President of the Government, is why this transitional reflection is now, and that is not clear to me. So better dialogue will be, more effective, but at the same time there will be another two-year transitional period. What's going to happen in between? But, if you'll excuse me, Vice President, I would like to add just a few words to the position I presented on behalf of the LMŠ Group. In fact, when it was mentioned here in the debates about how the field of information society has really moved in the past, like the 10th brother from one ministry to another. But you know what matters? Each time the field of information society and digitisation was part of the ministry, i.e. at the level of the Ministry. Now, apparently those who come up with such ideas that the government service will do something like the ministry, they don't know, they don't even know the difference between the powers and the functioning of the ministry. And trust that when we witness from day to day about digital transformation and that we will be among the top five as soon as possible, in Europe you have done - what - to degrade the field of information society and digitisation. Declined, reduced to the level of government service, a minister who has not been able to do anything but take a few pictures and publish a picture there in front of the computer and every time he says that digitisation is important. I don't seem to matter to you. It is completely irrelevant with such a reorganisation that the area of digitisation is becoming. And what's worse is the experts who are now being forced into some government service in this Directorate of Information Society, where they're going to turn into regular bureaucrats, because they're not actually going to be able to do the other one. But this is what you do to degrade the field of information society, it's what you do when in the same sleep you brag about that on the index scale we grew up and we thank God and that's good, we're up for a couple of cities. [[Incomprehensible]] I know that I would like to say that this happened because you set up this government service and now we have a digitisation minister, and that is not why it happened, and why Slovenia went up this ladder should also be examined. Because of the fact that the broadband network has really been intensively built across Slovenia in recent years, and this is the result of the fact that we are well above the European average and what has been in the DSI index all the time, if you have been following it in the past, is that, obviously Slovenia, people do not use the Internet, in Slovenia people did not use the Internet or use it very badly, to a very limited extent. Yes, but the epidemic has now done its job. Of course they used the Internet. It was necessary to work remotely, it was necessary to regulate matters with the country remotely and, of course, it jumped this internet usage index and we jumped on this DSI index as well. But that doesn't mean that we're going to have a reorganisation exercise like this, which is really totally unnecessary for a couple of months, does it, in a few months' time, another government will come and resettle these poor people somewhere, and in any case, any government will have to give a substantial amount of importance to the information society and digitisation, not in a way that degrades this area to the level of some government service, there at the cabinet of the President of the Government? And something else, isn't it, which is completely confused with the logic and the beating of the chest, how you're going to debirocratize the country, but here again, is a classic example of a bureaucratic lining. I'll tell you the case now. Now, of course, this minister with more employees, you have achieved this, obviously you will achieve it, but, look now, when an inspector who has the responsibility of inspecting over more than a thousand employees finds that a website does not meet the accessibility requirements of the website or anything like that, this debtor will be able to initiate only an administrative dispute, which means, of course, a significantly more complex procedure than if there were a ministry, as it was obvious, but in fact, it is still, when this debtor has the right to file a complaint, a simple complaint, with a complaint, to be resolved. No, now you're going to put him in an administrative dispute. You know what an administrative dispute means, don't you? This is a classic bureaucratic cover that you have now put into this and the essence of it is that we no longer have the field of information society and digitisation at ministerial level. We're out, we're out. You have now managed to throw it literally out of the Law on State Administration. Well, we'll see how this reorganisation will affect the DSI index and how we'll get there between the first 5 in Europe. That's what I'm really interested in, and of course we'll be monitoring it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm guessing there's no interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE ENERGY RENEWABLE USE LAW, IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. And with regard to the crutches, I allow you to present your opinion from the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u262	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to give a brief explanation to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources. The basic objective of the bill is to comply with the EU acquis. The bill regulates 3 key issues. We correct the incorrect transposition of Article 17 of Directive 2018/2001/EU on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable energy in the case of self-sustainers. With the new law, all final customers with self-sustainment from renewable energy sources will have the right to make it easier to connect self-sustainment devices regardless of whether they choose to invest under the so-called old netting model of the acquired and delivered quantities to the network or on a new one where the network will be accounted for from the total amount taken from the network and customers will be entitled to other benefits. Secondly, the law allows the distribution operator to make decisions issued in the process of obtaining consent to join and in the process of obtaining a change of consent for connection to self-supply devices whose connection power does not exceed 50 kilowatts shall be served by regular service, by depositing in the home drawer, mailbox or in the electronic drawers of the addressee. The service shall be valid on the 5th day following the date of dispatch of the decision. This will enable the implementation of Article 17 of Directive 2018/2001/EU, which provides that the distribution operator must take appropriate decisions on the connection of self-sustainment devices within one month of receipt of the notification by the final customer. Thirdly, the law also provides for the possibility of a support centre carrying out tasks in the field of promoting the energy efficiency of alternative fuels or reducing emissions in transport that do not fall within the framework of the economic public service. In practice, this means that a support centre based on a contract with the departmental department will also be able to implement measures such as promoting more environmentally friendly road freight transport on the basis of funding from the Climate Change Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the law is necessary in the light of the correct transposition of EU legislation into the Slovenian legal order and thus in order to halt the infringement proceedings already initiated by the European Commission against the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that it deserves broad support in the context of the ongoing legislative treatment. And I hope he gets that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u264	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State, Mr Mihelič, Members and Members of Parliament. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 50th emergency meeting, 15. 11. 2021 As a parent labour body, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. Introductory explanation, which, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Blaž Kosorok stressed that the proposal for a law in the first place eliminates the misrepresentation of Article 17 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of renewable energy in the case of self-sustainers. In addition, the draft law allows the distribution operator to decide that the decisions issued in the process of obtaining consent to join the self-sustainment device, whose connecting power does not exceed 50 kilowatts, shall be hot in the address book's electronic drawer. The proposal also introduces the possibility for the support centre to carry out tasks in the field of promoting the energy efficiency of innovative fuels and reducing emissions in transport carried out outside the mandatory State of the public service. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposed amendments to the Supplement. In a short discussion, in some opposition parliamentary groups, the emphasis is placed on introducing minor amendments necessary for the rules and transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order. They also pointed out that the proposed content to Article 1 of the draft law, in their view, puts one good solution and one step in the right direction. They also pointed out the urgent release of Article 2, since this article, in relation to the provision of provisions issued in the consent process and the modification of the consent to join the self-sustainment procedure. Determines a derogation from the system-wide arrangements. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC, and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Non-Aligned Members and the Magi. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Good evening to all physically present and present at a distance. This July, in the National Assembly, the Non-aligned Members supported the adoption of a new law aimed at increasing the use of renewable energy in the production of all kinds of energy, including fuel fuels, and consequently reducing greenhouse gas emissions. With this in mind, we have transposed the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and updated the system to promote the use of renewable energy in all areas. For the first time in months, this law is being amended, and we are removing the dilemmas about the inconsistent transposition of the European acquis into national law. There are also problems in implementing the law in practice mainly in the area of self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources. Following a new development, distribution operators will be allowed to allow decisions to connect self-sustainment devices with a power supply of not more than 50 kilowatts to be served by ordinary service customers or to hand over the address book to the customer electronically. An even more important contribution to this novelty is that, following the new Support Centre, it will also carry out tasks in the areas of energy efficiency promotion, alternative fuels and transport emissions reduction, which are carried out outside the public service. We are convinced that such laws lead towards a cleaner energy transition and, as a result, to a more quality and healthy living environment. Increased share of renewable resources in energy production and consumption is a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the country. This will also have a positive impact on climate change. We also believe that such measures will earlier achieve the objective of a climate neutral country and the greening of our economy and society. We believe that the law will have positive consequences for the Slovenian economy and energy development planning in particular, due to new investments in renewables production facilities and electrical storage facilities from these sources. More business opportunities related to these investments will accelerate further employment. Green transition in energy is a key challenge for this generation, as it will also have consequences for many other areas of social life. Much attention needs to be paid to cohesion and the integration of various energy sectors, so that the challenges of future energy crises can be adequately addressed. The national energy and climate plan sets clear targets for the introduction of renewable energy sources, and there is no other alternative. I would like to draw attention to another problem when it comes to problems with the installation of self-sustainment devices at multiple residential facilities, and it is therefore necessary to obtain the consent of all floor owners. Our people hardly agree 100 percent, regardless of the benefits, so most photovoltaic devices are installed on one-bedroom buildings. Side dwellers, despite paying all contributions and incentives to the system deprived of the benefits of community self-sustainment measures. Therefore, we propose and appeal to the competent Members that this problem be resolved in a short time, in a way that reduces the percentage of the necessary consents of the high-level owners, for example, to 50% when setting up self-sustainment facilities at multiple residential facilities. There will be less joy in having a cow killed or a project failed in the neighborhood, but there will be more electricity and less environmental pollution. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will unitedly support the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u267	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The current law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources was adopted in the National Assembly 13. Seven. 2021 and enter into force 7. 8. 2021. The applicant's consideration of the draft law following a reduced procedure is justified by the fact that the amendment introduces the minor changes necessary for the correct transposition of Directive 218/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of energy consumption from renewable sources. The main solutions to the bill are to introduce the possibility of promoting energy efficiency measures for alternative fuels and reducing emissions in transport through the Support Centre, electronic service of administrative acts and align the national legal order with Directive 218/2001. This is mainly paragraphs 2 and 3. The proposal states that the proposed law is without prejudice to the existing basic principles of the law now in force. We will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u269	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u270	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At today's meeting of the National Assembly, Members and Members will decide on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. The law currently in force was recently passed, more specifically on 13 July this year. Amendments and additions are needed according to the bill's proponent, as they say there have been dilemmas and questions about the inconsistent transposition of the European acquis into our legislation and the difficulties in implementing certain provisions in practice. The main objective of the legislative proposal is to bring the national legal order into line with the European Union Directive and to introduce the possibility of promoting energy efficiency measures, alternative fuels and reducing emissions in transport through the support centre. In addition to the tasks performed by the USSR, the proposed solutions to other tasks in the field of energy efficiency promotion, alternative fuels or reduction of emissions in transport have been designed by the proposers to perform other tasks in the field of promoting energy efficiency, alternative fuels or reducing emissions in transport, and the solutions proposed would also allow the electronic service of administrative acts to end-users who have submitted an application for consent or an application for a change of consent to join, namely self-sustainment devices with a power not exceeding 50 kilowatts. [[Incomprehensible]] We are surprised that the drafters of the law have not come to certain conclusions at the time of writing and adopting the current law. We understand, however, that some problems and shortcomings occur only when the law is put into practice. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not therefore oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u272	The law regulates the implementation of state and municipal policies in the field of the use of renewable energy sources. It sets a binding target for the share of energy from renewable energy sources in gross final consumption in the Republic of Slovenia and measures to achieve this objective and the way in which they are financed. It also regulates certificates of origin of energy, self-sustainment of electricity from renewable sources, use of renewable energy and overheat in the heating, cooling and transport sectors, and information and training of installers. The law is also aligned with the EU directive in order to misrepresent certain provisions. In addition, the law has some minor changes. The law, which is said to be the law that is passed, is essentially adopted in a very strange way. He was admitted to the government three weeks ago. The reduced procedure was confirmed on 5 November. Five days later, on November 10th, an urgent meeting was convened in five days. The law is adopted with extreme haste and somehow there is no real reason for it. In fact, it is a very technical law and we would also need more time and technical support from experts for serious consideration. Once again, as has been said, marriage was adopted in a very strange way before it came to the National Assembly. The public hearing lasted only 2 weeks. The fact that this government does not give laws to the public for sufficient time is already clear and well known to all of us, but at this stage the government or the department has received comments from one natural person and from Elektra Ljubljana, the Association of Slovenian Photovoltaics, SOD and from. [[Incomprehensible]] We can understand this from the bill. What these comments were, it is not clear. All we know is that they have been taken into account by the Ministry if they have not been contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the EU and the systemic solutions to the bill. But that doesn't say anything about comments. Perhaps one who disagreed with the systemic solutions for some reason. For all of this, we will vote as abstention in the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy provides for the possibility that the Centre for Support from State Budget or other Funds may also carry out tasks in the field of promoting energy efficiency, alternative fuels or reducing emissions in transport. While measures in these areas do not fall within the scope of the economic public service to promote the use of renewable energy sources, they may have a direct impact on the share that Slovenia achieves. The Support Centre shall conclude a contract with the Ministry of Infrastructure setting out the purpose, scope and source of funding, the means for carrying out those tasks and the conditions for carrying out the tasks. The proposal also allows the electronic transmission of the decisions of the distribution system operator to final customers who have submitted an application for a change of consent for connection, for self-sustainment devices not exceeding 50 kilowatts. In addition, the proposal prepares the transposition of the Directive of the European Union in a way that the right to easily connect small production devices to the network by informing the distribution system operator shall apply to all final customers with self-sustainment irrespective of whether they acquire the right to self-sustainment under Article 37 of the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources or Article 115.a of the Energy Act. The draft law does not provide for additional expenditure on budgetary resources. It is a matter of establishing a legal basis for the transfer of funds under the agreement to the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Climate Change Fund, and the Ministry of Infrastructure will then be able to provide these funds to the operator on the basis of a contract concluded with the Support Centre. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that a well-functioning support environment needs to be established in the field of energy reform, including tax incentives mainly for introducing vehicles that reduce the use of fossil fuels, and especially for vehicles with alternative driving sources. For the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, to increase the share of rail and public transport, in particular the Ljubljana and Maribor migration pool. It is also necessary to encourage the energy rehabilitation of existing buildings and the construction of buildings that are energy least burdensome and technologically advanced, the replacement of heating oil with renewable energy sources, and to promote remote heating systems for renewable energy sources and co-generation of heat and electricity, and to promote the replacement of electricity for the preparation of sanitary hot water with solar energy and other renewable energy sources. In the NSI Group, we will support the law on promoting the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u275	Thank you, too. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u276	Your Honor! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources, which, inter alia, transposes the guidelines of the European Union Directive into our legal order. This aligns the situation of all final customers with self-sustainment, whether registered under Article 37 of the Renewable Energy Promotion Act or under Article 315.a of the Energy Act, which until recently regulated the matter of promoting the use of renewable energy sources in our country. This urgent change will allow all final customers the right to easily connect small production devices to the network, of course when informing the distribution system operator. In the SMC Group, we also welcome the solutions concerning the electronic service of administrative acts to those final customers who have submitted an application to join the consensus for self-sustainment devices of which the connecting power does not exceed 50 kilowatts. We believe that an operational system must be put in place first to improve the efficiency of electricity production from renewable sources, enabling all stakeholders to cooperate as effectively as possible and thereby help them achieve the economic stability of their projects. The laws of modern countries are increasingly being written along the path of stimulating environmentally responsible behaviour, but such a well-written law will not in itself provide a clean environment, as environmental concerns begin with us. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law are understood as a piece of mosaic effort that motivates people not to exert greater pressure on the environment by carrying out their daily activities. We believe that the challenging goals we have set ourselves in the field of the environment can only be achieved together. We also see the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources as a small step towards pursuing these objectives. On the basis of all the above arguments, the facts, we will support the proposed amendment of the Law in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u277	Thank you, too. The views of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u278	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members. As we have already said when we present our views on the adoption of this law shortly ago, green development and sustainable transition are two key priorities of our time in which renewable energy will play one of the more crucial roles. In this respect, in principle, any amendment to the law is welcome, as any improvement in the provisions should in principle lead to a better feasibility in practice. As a social-liberal party with an emphasis on social note and commitment to care for the human and healthy environment, we welcome this in the SAB party. However, we cannot completely avoid the bitter feeling that we received only three months after we had confirmed the law on the parliamentary bench. We wonder whether most of the solutions, with the exception of those that proved inappropriate in practice, could not really be incorporated into the basic law already. The proper transposition of the Directive is the most important in this regard. As a result of the non-notification of the rules, the infringement procedure of European Union law had already been introduced against Slovenia, and the ministry had, of course, to speed up. But we think it might turn a blind eye. The same could be said for the resolution of the set of tasks to be performed by the support centre and which are not part of the implementation of the public compulsory State economic service. From now on, the Centre will be able to carry out other tasks in the field of promoting the energy efficiency of alternative fuels or reducing emissions in transport. Nevertheless, despite the criticism of the inclusion of this provision, the fact that various measures from areas affecting the share of renewable energy sources are being promoted in this way is of great importance to Slovenia. We know that by 2020, the use of renewable energy should have increased to 25%, but we have failed despite our efforts. Any measure that will contribute to improving the results in this area is so welcome. In the long term, we will have to ensure 100% of our energy independence, as much as possible with green renewables. To think about the future of our planet and the sustainable exploitation of natural resources, which are limited, means to think about future generations. We need to be aware that we will only create conditions for a stable, developmental and sustainable economy in Slovenia and for innovative and digitised jobs with high added value. Our main objective is to preserve the environment in a way that does not inhibit infrastructure projects that are environmentally acceptable and reduce carbon footprints and which mean development for our country. We want as many such projects as possible to be made possible under the law on promoting the use of renewable energy sources. Trace [[?]] We will not oppose all the above-mentioned amendment of the law in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u279	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u280	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The new law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy is being adopted today due to the need for a full transposition of the directive in question, and in practice some of the problems that we have overcome in the implementation of the law. The Directive thus provides that the procedures for granting consent for the connection of solar power plants should last for a maximum period of one month and therefore, in the Slovenian legal order, such procedures shall be governed by the Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for longer deadlines for the protection of customers operating with a country. The draft law therefore provides for a reduction of the time limits for service. Decisions taken in the process of obtaining approval for connection to self-sustainment devices not exceeding 50 kilowatts shall be subject to new service by regular service in a mailbox or electronic drawer. Simplification of procedures can, of course, be welcomed and always welcome, but caution is not excessive in removing administrative barriers, of course, as it must not lead to poor legal security for citizens. The bill further eliminates discrimination between two groups of final customers with self-sustainment, which in the future could lead to a deterioration of the conditions for the owners of their own power plants. In order to prevent the development of solar power plants in 2022 and 2023 from dying, all those who will build a self-sustainment power plant by the end of 2023 will be able to enter a more favourable system and new customers will no longer have this benefit after the end of this period due to the amended European legislation, so the State will have to provide other types of incentives. In addition, the proposal introduces the possibility that the support centre, in addition to the tasks already performed as an economic public service, performs other tasks in the field of promoting the energy efficiency of alternative fuels or reducing emissions in transport. The means to carry out these tasks shall be provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure and shall be the income of the Support Centre. We believe that this additional opportunity to carry out the tasks is welcome. In the Desus Group, we agree with the content of the proposed amendments and we will unanimously support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SUPPORT LAW ON CERTIFICATE MEASURES IN THE HEALTH SCOPE OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Andrei Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u282	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have before us a proposal for a law to equalize all the workers in the country. The key objective of the novel, which we have drawn up in the LMŠ and put together with the democratic opposition, is to eliminate the current uneven situation in the area of assistance to certain groups of workers who cannot work because of a certain quarantine. As a result of a government error, self-employed, members of society and farmers from 1 July onwards are not entitled to a partial refund for the loss of income due to a quarantine of their child or labour. As a result, they are placed in an unequal position compared to employees who are employed under a contract of employment and in such cases receive remuneration. Moreover, the current regime is also dangerous from an epidemiological point of view. Many of them are unable to do their work at home, which means that in the event of a certain quarantine or inability to perform their work because of a higher power, they face a complete loss of income. As a result, of course, they are forced to keep working, for they simply cannot afford such a minus. They are therefore performing work, violating a certain quarantine, and can potentially spread infections. In the beginning of October, we called on the government to immediately address the current situation. Because of the non-action of powers, we have prepared an amendment to the ZNUPZ, which solves the difficulties of these groups in the way it was regulated by 1 July. Our proposal has not been supported by the government, despite the fact that it has not prepared its solutions by the day our law was discussed at the committee meeting. The reason for the opposition to the law, however, is that the Government has justified the resolution of the situation in its new CAP law. Let me mention that the CAP was put into the legislative process just two days ago and regulates an identical measure as proposed by our proposal. It is difficult for me to imagine that the government in this case has seen an opportunity for political games or a competition with the opposition. This is unacceptable because we talk about people, they don't care who makes the marriage, they only care about the solution. And our solution is good, especially the fact that it is on the table today and that we can accept it. The bill before us will justify partial lost income for self-employed members and farmers for the duration of the quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour because of the increased force due to the obligation to protect the child. In addition, they will be entitled to income in the event of inability to carry out work due to the closure of borders or the suspension of public transport. The amount of income will be EUR 250 per quarantine or not more than EUR 750 per month. The key is that the injustice will also be rectified. Beneficiaries who have been quarantined since 1 July or have been quarantined by their child and therefore unable to perform work will receive a partially recovered lost income for this period. In the LMŠ, together with the other co-proposers, we wanted to regulate this right even in the first half of next year, but after a discussion on the competent parliamentary committee, it proved that coalition support to our law is conditional on a change in the validity of the measure. Therefore, we have taken a step back and supported the validity of the measure by the end of this year. We have thus achieved that our law will see the light of the world in a short time. However, it is still crucial for the LMŠ to ensure that the measure is also provided in the next year, in the light of this, that the measure is still in force until 30 June 2022, and we also wish to extend the validity of the comparable measure for employees. The bill received unanimous support from the parliamentary committee, for which I also sincerely thank all Members and Members. I want us to go beyond political division today and do something good for people together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u283	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Yes, we also discussed this law last Saturday. I have to say in the report that it was much longer than the proponents had predicted, and that is why the clock is different later. The fact is that the Law on emergency measures in the field of health, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Brak Golubović, essentially a proposal to upgrade the law. Some amendments were also tabled during the business deadline from this point of view, to somehow come together in some way and to support the law. On behalf of the proposer, our colleague, Andrea Zabret, presented the law, stressed that the main objective of the bill is to ensure equal treatment of employees with contracts for employment and self-employed persons and to help prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. Self-employed persons, associates and farmers shall not be entitled to the refund of lost income due to the imposition of quarantine at home or the inability to carry out their work due to force majeure. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was somewhat different, indeed it was negative, but not because of the content itself in this sense, but because it was clearly stated that the matter was governed by a law that would shortly come to our bench and would be given these solutions and the matter would also be resolved in this way. Law enforcement made some comments, something, well, on the short marriage, but we did it. I think with the amendments, most of it's been removed, so I don't think there's any obstacle. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, work, health care, disabled persons also addressed this law and supported it. In fact, the debate took place in some way, in the same direction as all Members, that these people really need to be helped to have solutions, but, perhaps, we have been on different shores for some time to support the bill before us today. Others have somehow been more skeptical, because solutions and others are being resolved within the framework of the CAP. But, as we say, we came along with some amendments, and the amendments were also accepted, and so today is the law before us. So, as far as the wedding's concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. France to Vindisar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to supplement the Health Emergency Action Act, namely the ZNUPZ-A. The proposal concerns the right to partially recover lost income for self-employed, members of society, founders of institutions and farmers, because of the inability to perform work due to quarantine or force majeure, due to the obligation to protect the child. The eligible period is from 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2022. The measure was included in a regulation which regulates a similar entitlement for workers employed under a contract of employment with employers in Slovenia for the period until the end of 2021. After examining the ZNUPS-A proposal, the Government shall be 18. 11. gave the opinion that the proposal does not support the regulation. It stated that the measure was not feasible from the point of view of State aid and was flawed in the work relating to the provision of budgetary resources and that the measure for this area of the economy had already been incorporated into a new intervention regulation, namely the Law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the effects of Covid-19, of 18. 11. 2021, which has also been published in the Information System of the National Assembly. According to the amendments of the Health Committee of 20. 11. 2021 and the need to take account of budgetary capacity and established solutions in the FURS information system with regard to the application and payment dates, and that 18 11. 2021 The European Commission adopted the Sixth Supplement to the Provisional Framework for State Aid, in force until 30 June 2022, the Government shall be 23. 11. 2021 gave its consent to the following amendment: paragraphs 1 and 2 of the ZNUPZ-A proposal are amended so that, for the first time, the additional reasons of force majeure are not taken into account, this is due to the suspension of public traffic and the closure of borders, secondly, the eligible period is from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021, thirdly, the extension of the eligible period until 30 June 2022, possible by means of proposals for a decision of the Government, fourthly, the method of payment is laid down by applying for reimbursement for the period from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021, and the payment takes place by 15 February 2022, fifthly, the method of payment for any extended period is determined by applying for the application to be lodged within 15 days of receipt of the proof of the occurrence of the event for which it cannot be carried out and the payment is made within 10 days of the following month,22 for applications lodged in respect of any extended period of 15 months and the period of 15 February 20 February 20 February of no more than the deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u287	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u288	Good evening to all present, especially to you, Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly, but of course to the representatives of the government. The only thing I can say about covid-19 is that the Slovenian nation has divided. That's definitely a fact. So we are daily at the stroke of various groups that support anything or are against everything. It is clear that we are writing an ungrateful history, and I sincerely hope that in five years' time it will not matter who believed in anything, because covid will only be a bitter memory. It is also clear that we are in a very chaotic time where a neighbor is a brother to an enemy brother. It saddens me that we can't find a common word. It's time for us to stop splitting up and stand together against this common enemy of the covidus. He doesn't care what we think, who we trust, who we support, he has his politics. The only thing we have left is that we're trying to fix the consequences that he caused. During these almost two years, as many as nine anti-Korona laws have been passed to mitigate the effects of covida. As you can hear, there's already a 10th anti-Korona law on the way. I do not agree with all measures of anti-Korona law, but I do not think I am alone. I think it is also slowly clear to the government that some PKP measure was just a candy bar or some chocolate bar so that people might prefer this government. I consider that a mistake. As a result, quite a few groups were released. We may be boasting of the lowest level of unemployment, but there are many things behind it that we do not hope to say out loud. We'll have to talk about it slowly, too. I think it is clear to all that disagreements with PCT are a condition and a whole drama about vaccination only the tip of the icy mountain of problems that will await us in the coming months, perhaps even years. We're in a lot of danger, and it's time to start making things right here and now. In the Slovenian National Party, from the very beginning, we have been trying to work for the good of the people, and our votes are too often misused and misinterpreted. But because we care and because we will always fight for our nation, we will support the law under consideration, even though it has been proposed by parties who are not expected to be favored by many. It is sad that self-employed, farmers, shareholders and shareholders of companies have been forgotten. I sincerely hope it's because of the lapsus and it wasn't purposefully done. It's really about quarantine confusion if I'm real. There are quite a few measures such as not knowing who is drinking and who is paying. It has to be admitted. Why this happened is a shame to lose words. As already mentioned, covid does not choose by belief, color of skin, status in society and sex, he has his own policy. But it is time for us to stop being guided by him and to begin to control him and to take clear steps and solutions that will lead us out of this present chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u289	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u290	President, thank you again. I think that earlier on behalf of the proposalers, colleague Andrej presented in detail what this law is all about. And I don't think there's any added value if I repeat anything. But I'd like to point out something else. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I think that others joined us at that time, we also supported this proposal with certain amendments on the home committee. This is also the answer to all those who say that this government does not cooperate, that this government does not want to cooperate and that we are not prepared to accept your proposals. If the proposal is good, of course we accept it. If we think we can come up with a better proposal, then we're just trying to find other solutions. Now, of course, the proposal is on the table. The fact is that there is also a PKP-10 ahead of us and that there will be a lot of solutions in there too, so at the Slovenian Democratic Party we took a decision on the committee itself to uphold the law. This, my fellow Members and colleagues, will also be done today, but on condition that the amendments they tabled will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u291	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u292	Thank you, President. Yes, an epidemic of the crown of the virus has, of course, reached into all the spheres of our lives. The result of multiple governmental reckless restrictive measures to combat the spread of infections is visible in the health, economic and social spheres. Let me remind you again that the successful response to the epidemic depends mainly on people. From how people take individual measures that should be timely, proportionate, understandable. Key measures are not only vaccination, use of protective masks, decontamination of arms or cough hygiene, key measures are also linked to the replacement of infections at workplaces and we have repeatedly called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so in LMŠ. The 100 per cent remuneration measure, due to the absence of land due to the infection of the crown virus or the adaptation of labour law in a way that enables both employers and workers to carry out their work more easily at home, is only two of the ways that are important to help spread infections. Respect for the quarantine measure is also extremely important. This does not mean a healthy person who may be infected. [[Incomprehensible]] So this person can't go to work. However, in order to respect this measure, the worker must, of course, have, for the period of absence of work, a remuneration granted and, in part, a drawback of income, if we are talking about self-employed, and here, the respected Government, you have covered the entire line in this case. Although you have taken care of employees with a contract of employment with the Emergency Health Care Act, you have released self-employed persons, members of society and farmers. For the first time, this is discriminatory and for the second time dangerous from an epidemiological point of view. Many of them, because of this situation, are still forced to work and can potentially spread infections, so in the LMŠ, together with the rest of the democratic opposition, we have tabled a proposal to supplement the law that is before us today and that solves this situation. In fact, we have been talking about this inappropriate regulation since the beginning of last month. In LMŠ we have invited you to address this problem and you have not done so until the time has come to discuss your law, when you have presented to the public a new mega PKP, and in addition to some pre-election candy, you have again managed to encourage some controversial measures and the CAP should be for your reason not to accept our proposal. As you will regulate this measure in your law, the opposition's proposal, of course, must be rejected. In LMŠ, we don't care who's signed under the law. It's still more than 100,000 people who don't need much help. All that matters is that the law is passed as soon as possible, and this law is before us today. By regulating the measure of partially recovered lost income for self-employed members and farmers, we will correct the unfair regime currently in force and ensure that the damage is reimbursed even in return. The rapid adoption of the law is also necessary, because of the uncontrolled spread of quarantine infections, we make an important contribution to curbing the spread of the virus. While these measures should have been in force since July, we are already at the peak of the epidemic, of course we are facing a record number of confirmed infections, so we have taken a step back in the LMŠ and on the committee supported the validity of this measure by 31 December of this year. We have done so, that the law has received sufficient support, that we can decide on it today at all and that it will enter into force as soon as possible, of course most importantly. We want the law to receive the votes of all Members and Members of Parliament today as well. However, it is crucial for both the employees and the self-employed members and farmers to receive State aid in the event of a certain quarantine in the following year. That's what we want to do for the supplement. We will, of course, support such a proposal in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Social Democrats will be proposed to supplement the Health Emergency Act, which provides compensation for the loss of income for self-employed persons for the duration of the quarantine at home and the inability to perform because of the increased force, for the protection of children will certainly be supported. The proposed solution to the loss of income compensation for self-employed persons is based on an example of how to address the same issue in the fifth anti-korona package of intervention measures. At that time, workers employed on the basis of a contract of employment and self-employed persons who were treated in a similar manner for a certain quarantine. They were all entitled to partial compensation for the lost part of their salary or income. Both measures under the fifth package of anti-Korona legislation were in force until 1 July 2021. In July 2021, the National Assembly adopted a law on emergency measures in the field of health and re-arranged remuneration for a certain quarantine only for workers employed under a contract of employment. While self-employed, shareholders and farmers who have also been quarantined have been excluded from this intervention measure. This measure would provide them with social security at a time when, due to a certain quarantine, they have limited freedom of movement at home and thus have limited ability to carry out the work that provides them with income for survival. Even before the epidemic, self-employed and penal workers lived in a worse economic social situation than most employees. Unusual forms of employment require that work be carried out in conditions of high economic uncertainty and low social security. However, measures to limit the spread of the virus and to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the epidemic have only further exacerbated the situation of many self-employed people. The State has adopted a series of legally complex and incomprehensible intervention measures on eligibility for self-employed aid. However, some measures have even been taken without further clarifications and concrete explanations, which have also often changed since. A large number of self-employed people who have asked for State aid because of the lower volume of their operations and the temporary closure of their activities due to the epidemic have even found, at the time of issuing their annual tax accounts, that the aid received will even have to be recovered because it has further deepened their economic and social distress. The distinction between workers employed on the basis of a contract and self-employed persons with regard to the eligibility for partial remuneration of income due to the quarantine or protection of the child is unfair. The exclusion of self-employed persons from this specific intervention measure is also not relevant in terms of the health crisis that is still going on. This makes it possible for self-employed forces to work at the time of quarantine, since it is the only way to provide for themselves to survive. However, it is the duty of the State to develop such intervention measures that will encourage and motivate all self-employed people to act responsibly in order to stay at home at risk of contact and thus help to limit the spread of the virus. So, as I said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u295	Thank you, too. The positions of the Levica Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Good evening. During the public-health period, in times of economic and social crisis, a social group has unfortunately fallen out of government anti-korona aid packages. Pensioners, students, renters, employees and others. In the most precarious social situation, however, the self-employed have certainly found themselves. They already suffer the hardships of the reality of the criminal world under normal social and economic conditions. Project work, irregular payments for work done, loss of payments, uncertainty in the continuity of work, absence of basic rights under labour law, such as sick leave, leave, regress and so on. Coronacies have only deepened their difficulties, and they have widened their grips. A plastic presentation of only one of the challenges is the fact that compensation for a certain quarantine is currently available only to employees and to self-employed persons. The government has awarded compensation to self-employed persons following pressure from the public and the opposition in the fifth anti-Korona package when certain quarantines or labour due to other epidemic-related reasons cannot be eliminated. However, the provisions governing these refunds now apply only to employees and not to self-employed persons. That is why we have tabled in the opposition amendments to the law that eliminate this injustice and provide compensation to all workers who, due to the epidemic or to the protection of health, cannot do all our work. Since quarantine or quarantine is carried out at home to limit the free movement of a healthy person, the worker at that time cannot receive compensation for the absence of sickness or injury. Thus, workers without appropriate intervention measures could lose everything that would, on the one hand, mean that they would be deprived of the right to protection in the event of an epidemic and, on the other hand, would force people to violate certain quarantines. There is no reason why today we would not support the opposition amendments and the law which regulates compensation for both self-employed and employees in the event that the worker has to stay at home due to the epidemic and cannot work from home. The amendments are also proposed to apply to both groups until 30 June, that is to say by summer. A similar solution, indeed, for self-employed people is also foreseen by the government's tenth anti-Korona package, which will take some time to complete its national constituency. Therefore, if we really care about providing workers with safety and adequate compensation, and we would like to contribute to limiting the epidemic at these critical times, then today, by a large majority, let us support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. The Law on Complementation of the Law on Emergency Measures in the Field of Health proposes to regulate partially recovered lost income for self-employed, associates and farmers for the duration of quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour due to force majeure due to the obligation to protect the child on the basis of regulation in the new CAP. The amount of the partially recovered lost income shall be EUR 250 for each specified quarantine or for a time when the beneficiary is unable to work for reasons of force majeure, due to the obligation to protect the child, due to certain quarantine or other external objective circumstances, the inability to attend a kindergarten or school, but not more than EUR 250 for 10 days, EUR 500 for 20 days and EUR 750 for one month. The measure will also apply retroactively from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021. With amendments we add the possibility of extending until 30 June 2022 by a decision of the Government. The proposed law will be supported by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u299	Thank you, too. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Law on emergency measures in the field of health has been created as a response to the situation related to COVID-19, as has been the number of other legislative proposals in the last year and a half. The number of active infections, the number of hospitalized persons and those in intensive care has reached such values these days that they are reflected in the uncertainty of our future. The infection is more and more every day, and they spread very quickly. Contacts with infected or potentially infected are becoming more and more. Today we have about 44,000 active infections with Covid, on average about 3,000 new cases of infections per day, and in the last week and currently around 285 people on intensive treatment. It is the right to compensation for lost income due to a certain quarantine or inability to perform the work of a higher power. The amount of the compensation remains the same as the self-employed were already eligible by July 1st. The amount of the partially lost income is thus 150 euros for each specific quarantine or for a time when an individual is unable to perform because of a higher power, but not more than 250 euros for ten days, 500 euros for twenty days and 750 euros for one month. We agree that many self-employed people have found themselves in an uncertain attachment to COVID-19. Their position on the labour market is as uncertain in a given situation as the precarious situation of some other economic operators. Many do not receive regular monthly inflows, although many of them fall under limited labour protection of economically dependents. However, the latter does not provide the necessary security for Marsikom, and it is therefore appropriate to allow, at least by the end of the year, self-employed members and farmers to continue to exercise their rights, which is also included in the new 10th anti-korona package prepared by the Government and already in the legislative process. The solution is also the same in the government’s anti-Korona package of measures, which also foresees all three amounts for 10 or 20 months, or one month. In view of this latest fact, we have been able to reach a compromise on the parental committee so that the measures in the amendment under consideration today will be in force by the end of this year. We therefore unanimously adopted the amended text of the bill with 18 votes in favour and no votes against. In the SMC Group, we will once again support the draft law on supplementing the Health Emergency Measures Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u302	President, thank you for your word. Good evening, colleagues. In July this year, the National Assembly adopted a law on emergency measures in health, which provided, inter alia, a basis for extending the measure to compensate workers for a certain quarantine at home or for the inability to manage work due to a higher force. The measure was extended until 31 December of this year. Shortly after the adoption of the law, calls for a quarantine or child protection allowance were also made for self-employed, co-workers and farmers. The self-employed were not eligible for remuneration during the quarantine period, as the regulation only refers to workers who are in a labour relationship under the employment contract. Since the ministries (Ministry of Labour, Health and Economy) have not responded, we have proposed that members of the opposition groups regulate this issue in the amendment to this law, which is before us today. The amendment also regulates the partially recovered lost income for self-employed, co-workers and farmers, following the model of the regulation in the fifth anti-korona package, which was in force from 1 July this year. The amount of the partially recovered lost income for all of the revenues listed under this proposal remains the same as the beneficiaries were entitled to by 1 July, EUR 205 for each specific quarantine and not more than EUR 750 per month. In summary, the purpose of the proposal is therefore to treat employees equally on the basis of contracts for employment and self-employed persons and, in the current epidemiological situation, also to combat the spread of infections. However, the amount to be provided by the State is indeed negligible in the light consumption of budgetary money. The fact is, the self-employed are actually injured by the epidemic. According to the Institute’s representatives, on March 8th, they are self-employed under pressure if they may become sick and unable to work and then even pay the bills. The self-employed are also afraid that their contractor will decide for someone else and will no longer get a job on their own. Similarly, self-employed persons are not granted a hospital stock during the period of quarantine to which the State determines. In the SAB Group, we are pleased that the coalition has also learned on the committee responsible that this payment of the wrongs suffered by the self-employed is necessary. The coordinated joint supplement to the bill has been supported by the members of the SAB on the home labour body, and that is how we will do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u303	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present. Since March 2020, Slovenia has taken a number of measures related to the control of the epidemic, the mitigation of its consequences, measures to help individuals and the economy, measures in the field of health, and they have all been more than necessary. No one can deny it. One of the measures introduced in the previous PKPs also referred to the reimbursement of remuneration for employees or partial refunds of lost income for s.p., shareholders and farmers in the case of certain quarantines or higher forces. This remuneration was then re-organized by the Law on Emergency Health Measures, while this law left a overlooked group of workers who are not employed, i.e. socialists and farmers, who also lose their income at the same time as a certain quarantine or a higher power. That, therefore, a group of persons is urgently required to regulate the return on income, there is no dilemma on the part of the coalition or on the part of the opposition. The competent ministry or government has also confirmed this. In the fact that the opposition has rushed and has tabled in the National Assembly a bill that addresses this issue properly, and in the fact that the government is preparing a new CAP10, which is supposed to deal in an identical manner with this issue, the debate took place at Saturday's working body meeting not in the sense that the proposed solution is necessary, but in what proposal to confirm. The opposition we had on the table or the government, whose texts no one had seen before Saturday. There was no dilemma on our part. I myself, as Member of the DeSUS Group, expressed at the outset of the debate the hope and expectation that political views must be overcome that we must skip the accumulation of political points and act only and only for the benefit of our country or citizens and citizens. In view of our current position, we are Members of the DeSUS Group of Members of the content and once we have detected the problem, it is necessary to solve it. The conclusion of the Committee's debate after a number of interruptions is as follows. There's still hope. There is still hope for our little Slovenia that we can only stand together, regardless of the different political views, the definition, the right, the left, the central and whatever political situation we have never been in the country before. There is still hope that we know as people step back a little bit, forget about our ego, forget about just our proposal is acceptable and do something so to the benefit of our people. We are extremely pleased that we have all managed together unanimously, I stress, all the parliamentary groups to form an amendment and to eliminate unfair discrimination between employees and self-employed. We must be aware that by adopting this law, not only are we financially helping this group of people, but we are preventing the continuation of infections, which, given the situation and the overcrowding of hospitals today, is indeed crucial [[sign for the end of the debate]] The meaning, literally, of life. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposed amendment unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u305	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u306	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, everyone have a good evening. In July this year, the Law on Health Emergency Measures came into force. The law requires the State to reimburse employers for the costs incurred by paying salaries for workers who have been quarantined or who are absent for reasons of force majeure, including the suspension of public transport, the closure of state borders or the protection of children who have been quarantined or who have been sick. However, the regulation only refers to workers who are in a working relationship under a contract of employment, so that self-employed, members of society and farmers are not entitled at all to any refund of lost income resulting from the imposition of quarantine at home or the inability to perform labour due to a higher power, nor do they even get the hospital stock. Many stakeholders, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, and NGOs, have pointed out the need to regulate this issue. The government did not find a solution to this. Then, in the part of the opposition, we decided to act on our own. Any delay in solving the pressures of those most affected by the epidemic is unacceptable to us. In order to remedy these injustices as soon as possible, we have prepared in the opposition a new Law on urgent measures in the field of health, which regulates partially recovered lost income, including for self-employed, members of society and farmers, following the model of regulation in the fifth anti-Korona law, which applies until 1 July. At that time, the majority of the partially recovered lost income for these persons amounted to EUR 250 for each specific quarantine or for a time when the beneficiary was unable to perform labour due to force majeure, for example due to the obligation to protect children, due to the imposition of quarantine, but not more than EUR 250 for 10 days, EUR 500 for 20 days and EUR 750 for 30 days. This law, which refers to about 95,000 self-employed persons and approximately 21,000 farmers, would thus eliminate the unjustified distinction between different groups of employees, ensure equal treatment of employees with contracts of employment and self-employed persons and ensure that all workers are compensated for their salary or income loss in the event of a certain quarantine or inability to perform their work due to a higher power. We are of the opinion of the unrelated Members that the country should ensure a level playing field for all working persons in order to ensure that self-employed persons remain at home at risk of contact and thus help to limit the spread of the new coronavirus. We are pleased that the opposition's proposal on the working body has also been supported by the coalition, so that the additional amendments on the committee have been confirmed unanimously. However, the measure for the compensation of quarantine will apply from 1 July to the end of this year in accordance with the supplement. This measure will now finally pay off the injustice caused to self-employed by the Government when it has taken away their right to compensation for lost income for the imposition of a quarantine or inability to perform labour due to force majeure. It is now important that the proposed law and measures, which enter into force as soon as possible in practice, call on the competent institutions to reimburse as soon as possible the remuneration or loss of income due to a certain quarantine or a higher power for beneficiaries, i.e. self-employed, members of the board and farmers. If possible by the end of this month. This will also have a positive impact on the fight against the spread of infection with the new coronary virus, as the beneficiaries will be more consistently reporting risk contacts and holding certain quarantines when they are aware of their financial compensation. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will unanimously support the proposal for the amendment of the Law on emergency measures in the field of health in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. We have tabled two amendments to the LMŠ together with the opposition. I will now first in the first amendment to Article 1 why we have decided to submit it and what is different from the government amendment now. In particular, we decided to table an amendment because we now have, as we can see, the first observation of the government's proposal on the committee was that the law was not enforceable due to state aid, because there was no legal basis, we now see that we have a legal basis, because the European Commission is essentially the sixth amendment of the temporary framework and these measures can be taken with effect until 30 June 2022, so we have a legal basis and we can extend this measure to 30. 6. 2022, on the other hand, our amendment also foresees an extension of the measure without a decision, it is not necessary to reach a decision of the Government, because it does not seem to us that this is okay, that is, the legislative and legal services already point out several times that such extended decisions of the Government are not the most appropriate, and, on the other hand, there is also some legal uncertainty, because people do not know whether this measure will be extended or not and it is difficult to plan, in the event that this measure is enshrined in the law with exactly certain validity, which is a little more legally foreseeable. So these are two essential reasons. The third reason is to know that if we extend it to 30. 6th to 2nd year, almost 100% will certainly be quarantined in the following year, because the infections are still on the decline and if they still issue quarantine decisions, this measure is therefore in stock. In the event that these quarantine decisions are not available, however, there will be no claims, so that we do not see any difficulty in not applying this law for another six months. On the other hand, we also know that the PKP-10 is not going to be adopted for a while, because this PKP-10 blocks quite a few laws so that it really makes sense that this is all settled in this law. Now our amendment also extends the right to compensation for work lost income for self-employed members and farmers also in the event of a halt to public transport or the closure of borders. So our amendment is still spreading. This I think is a fundamental change that is said to extend the measure to 30. 6. 2022 and to add, we are extending the right to compensation in the event of a halt to public transport or the closure of borders, and I must say that we are fully equalising the measure with the employees. So much for this first amendment to Article 1. But for article two, I'll explain more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u309	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize for giving you a quick word. I thought you would be discussing the views of the parliamentary groups, so I must now announce that we are putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members. Now this debate you have had was about concrete amendments. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word? Go get Siter. Anyone else? Here you go, Comrade Siter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u310	Perhaps in the introduction, there is only something about the context that I hope the Vice-President will allow me to actually put the amendments into the place that is coming to them. Now management of the epidemic is primarily a matter of political decision. In what way different companies are engaged in limiting or countering the epidemic in society is, therefore, often a matter of political overreaction or decision-making and undoubtedly the most fruitful social preventive measure is thus the will to prevent the spread of the epidemic from diminishing contacts. Contacts in particular in the work processes, either in industrial halls in crowded offices or, as verified by those who have carried out the epidemic in the past year and nine months, it is therefore important to point out here that they are in the worst position in these difficult epidemiological times, which in the back also bring some social and economic challenges to workers, whether they are employees or self-employed workers, so those in some hidden working contexts which are formally described as self-employment. In large cases these workers, of course, either that they are some workers in some halls on a minimum salary or self-employed workers who are not in a significantly better position, if they prefer to continue working even if they should normally be self-insulated, so they do not risk losing the minimum wage that they would otherwise be in and that we are trying to enable them with this legislative proposal. We have already received a very nice picture at the committee hearing of what self-employed people are already facing under normal circumstances. We have seen that if a self-employed person who deserves, say, over his thumb, one thousand 200, a thousand 300 euros is not left to him at the end of the day, but when he pays his travel expenses, he can continue to operate monthly with some 300 euros and, of course, he is not a stupid person if he has to spend another child, pay rent or whatever, and he will have to decide for work and not for public health. Similarly, employees on a minimum wage, and often in some industrial halls, we hear, receive from their superiors, from their bosses instructions that infections should be ignored and continued in the work process. And, of course, the policy is to create favourable conditions, so that, due to limiting the epidemic, I can say favourable conditions, that workers, employees and self-employed, can remain safe at home, isolate themselves, take advantage of this opportunity, the opportunity of quarantine and, therefore, enjoy saying, under conditions that, even at social level, are thus limiting the epidemic. Now, I see that, in principle, there is some consensus in the Chamber that this matter is being settled in the proposed manner, which of course I welcome. Perhaps another word, two about a specific amendment or amendments. Now, of course, the coalition amendment agrees with the right to compensation for self-employed persons, but only until the new year, and then gives the government the option to extend the right to compensation by a decision, up to 30. 6th, so until the summer. In addition, the coalition amendment does not recognise the absence of a suspended public transport or closed borders as the reason for the payment. In this respect, it creates two inequalities in relation to employees. Employees may be compensated for their absence from public transport or the closure of borders and, on the other hand, the adoption of the coalition amendment would mean that self-employed persons have the option of extending the right to compensation to 3. 6th, but the employees don't. The opposition law and today's opposition amendment regulates matters more appropriately, better to say, and fairer to both groups of workers, so I look forward to the support of this opposition initiative, respected colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this first article? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment, to the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Related Members to the title of the chapter.Transitional and final provision, and to the new Article 2a, which is substantively linked, we will also discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate two amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to the title of the chapter Transitional and final provision and to the new Article 2.a. Andrey Zabret wants the word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u312	Thank you, Chairman. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've really been a little early, and now I'm only going to have one sentence to thank you for the support that this law is going to receive, according to the views of the parliamentary groups. And that really shows how important this is. So I am pleased that we have overcome all these political differences, different views, and even for the future, I will be happy if we are ever so united again. Now, this new Article 2a, if we extend the measure in Article 1 to self-employed, members of society and farmers, this new Article refers to employees under the employment contract and it is also here to address possible inequalities and to equalise self-employed and employees. On the contrary, we know that at 1. 1st action for employees will no longer apply in the event of quarantine. If they go into quarantine, they say they won't get salary compensation and they'll just take this action at ZNUBS. [[?]] Also applicable until 31st time. 2021, in PKP 10 of this measure is not foreseen, and at least what we received in the National Assembly is not, it is said, if the measure is extended to self-employed persons, which I suppose the employees will fall out. In this amendment, we also propose extending the measure in the same way as in the ZNUPZ, up to 30. 6. 2021 and this seems to me to make sense, that is, the Law and Law Service has already pointed out inequality, in the case of employees and self-employed persons, and it would make sense for this amendment to be supported as well. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] He doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate here as well. The amendments will be decided in 15 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which will be continued at 8 p.m. and 40 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 20.26.) (The sitting resumed at 20.40)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u314	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! They continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in the following order. 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th agenda items. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 11. 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 3(1). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 3(2). Comrade Siter, explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u315	Thank you very much. The best gift for long - term care would be to place long - term care on a totally public foundation. Article 3 of the proposed law provides that other legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and natural persons who carry out their own activities and carry out complementary activities on a farm may also provide for long-term care. Now, experience shows that the quality of public service in the area of long-term care and elsewhere is possible only with a strong, numerical, educated and well-paid workforce. Privatisation and pre-arrangement of professions within long-term care are in diametric contrast and therefore the process of espousing, pre-arrangement of work processes and jobs embedded in the proposal needs to be removed from the existing proposal of the Long-Term Care Act. On the one hand, espionage brings outsourcing, of course, which we also know from the title of doctors of amphibians at the border, to say legal or tax evasion and with fabulous earnings on the one hand, and on the other hand forced espionage, workers, work without rights under other labour law, which is of course unacceptable. People who manage such an important social task to push into a situation where they are without leave, without regression, even without a hospital, and as much as we really want to be good for the working people who are in this operational work, so long-term care, put a stop to those other recipients of the long-term care services for which they first work, then we need to put an end to the espionage in the area of long-term care and thus actually take action towards the elimination of the leak, which is also the core of the amendment proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the Emissary Group? [[No, no, ……]] Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u317	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levi, we propose deleting Article 3 of the Long-Term Care Act. Why? Article 3 defines what public service is in the area of long-term care. You know, when we have certain subsystems organised in a public network within which individuals operate with concessions and also completely public institutions, then we have clean private operators of certain activities. What exactly this delimitation and organisation should look like in the area of long-term care in its entirety, not only in the area of home for older citizens, we do not really know from this law, although this law itself is meant to define it. In particular, while the government in this law retains the Institute of Concessions, it does not distinguish these concessions from pure individuals. Or, in other words, in translation, long-term operators can be all of them, all of them, from various espions to agricultural operators, foreign corporations, all possible other private legal forms, foreign corporations, public institutions, all of them, all of them, all of them. Within this law they fall under beneficiaries of long-term supply within the framework [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the so-called public networks. Why, then, do we have a public network if it is set up to capture all possible private practices? Not only in a formal sense, but in particular in a substantive sense, this is a problem. And here we have black on white written how the Long-Term Care Act is prepared as a law for long-term privatisation, for privatization of safe age, home for older citizens, independent entrepreneur. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u318	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 5. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 7(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SD and SAB to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 18. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 7(1) was adopted, the amendment of SD and SAB to the same Article under Article 2 became irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 10 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SAB and SD groups shall become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 10 under Article 1 was adopted, the amendment of SAB and SD to the same Article under Article 2 became irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 11(1). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups to Article 11 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 13. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 5. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 5.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 14. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 17. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. (The vote was 45.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 20. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 and 33. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments of the Left Group will become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u319	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Long-Terms Act should cover two large fields. The first half is finance, the second half is organisation of this long-term care, different forms of care in the community, how these combine with institutional care. Now, as we have seen in the discussion, this law does not in any way guarantee and does not care about financial resources. As for the content work, we have two halves on the inside, broken down into quite a rough one. The first half is the overall implementation of long-term care, where we can only talk about privatising safe age and privatising future home building for older citizens. Since the government has found that it is impossible to defend itself against these allegations, in the last stretches of the debate and consideration of the law on long-term care, all cards were bet on the so-called "long-term care". provider - family member. These are people who live in the same household who need and benefit from long - term care, and they would then be paid from this address and care for their neighbor. Government arguments say that they will practically jump to 1.2 times the minimum wage immediately after the law has been enforced and thus improve their position. Well, the truth is quite different. What the government does is, instead of taking care of the 5th generation home care strategy, to provide a care strategy in the community of intergenerational cooperation that covers all possible forms of housing and care for the elderly, this concern for the elderly is short-lived outsours for their family members. And outsourca passed it laid down by labour law. It is said that instead of having trained professionals who are recognized for all their working rights, who can offer competent and quality care to the elderly even at home, their family members will now be further suppressed in this role [[sign for the end of the debate]] without working rights, as they do people, including being unable to freely exercise their leave. The legal provisions also include the idea that a family member’s caregiver can go on leave for only 7 days in a single piece within one year, i.e. the increase in precarnation and the increase in dilettarian treatment, which the elderly certainly do not deserve. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We provide them with adequate personnel, well-paid and social security, not that the burden of caring for the elderly is passed on to their family members in the form, as they have said themselves, of modern slavery.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u320	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. (For the vote was 30.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 20 has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 and 33 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 26 under number two. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 29 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups to Article 30 under number two. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 32 under number two. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 33 under number two. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 34. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 35. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to Article 36. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 42. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 58. Explanation of vote, Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u321	Thank you very much, President. Permanent care and care must be maintained or provided in those accommodation units for those users who need it. It should perform them continuously, competent and medically. However, the Patronage Service can only take over health care and care in those residential housing groups of the VDC where these services are needed to a lesser or occasional extent. The Patronage Service may be included as a substitute or supplemental form of health care for those forms of services and interventions for which, due to the smallness of units, it is not possible to provide a sufficiently well-trained medical staff in all cases. In short, we are correcting what the applicant has forgotten, he simply forgot the VDC because we are talking only about people, but we are not talking about people living in residential units. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 59. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 65 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 68. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 70. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 71. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 81. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 88. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 90. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 94. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 101. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 118. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 127 of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1. We're voting. Explanation of voice. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Member of Parliament. We're under number one now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u323	Yeah, it's okay, president. I know what we've got ahead of us. Now the truthfulness of this coalition and of this government – well, the government has not always been honest – especially these coalitions, since this 127th article actually legitimizes those dates of validity of this law. And if this coalition is full of mouth as to how this long-term care is urgently needed, it is imperative that we should not accept this amendment of the coalition yesterday, as it will, of course, fall the amendment proposal on the following amendments, if we go to see Article 154, which makes it very clear that people will be given long-term care earlier. What does that mean? For this Government is moving the dates forward to the basic proposal to put into effect a provision on long-term care that regulates the right to the right in institutions is now moving it further for half a year from what it has put in place, and here we will see a coalition now that they are so boasting about how people and people will be able to provide long-term care. If this amendment succeeds, then it's all over with this long-term care, so I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u324	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 127 under Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 131 and 154. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the LMŠ Group to Article 127 has not been adopted, amendments to Article 2(2) and Article 154 of Article 2 and Article 3 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 128. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 129. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 130. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 131 under number 1. We're voting. Yes, an explanation. Make Siter explain on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u325	Thank you very much. At this point in the law, we are moving into the saga, the government saga of abolishing the aid and service allowance. One financial, social, financial assistance allowance has helped people who need it because of such or other circumstances, need such assistance, so that they can be integrated into social life, movement and so on. And now the government has never hidden the ambition of this law to provide financial assistance for the weakest, but this concrete amendment prevents the conditionalisation of the aid and service allowance with long-term care. The Pension Act, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia manages the aid and service allowance, while the present law transfers this jurisdiction to the ZZZS and gives it the power to obtain information on the remuneration, height and reasons for granting the aid and service allowance. There is no need for this, the allowance for assistance and the service must remain without condition with long-term care, so in the Left Group we are predicting support for this article, of course, and a clear objection to the abolition of the aid allowance and the service for all those who need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 134. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 135. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 136 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SAB and SD groups shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2 and the amendment of the Levica Group to this Article under number 3. Miha Kordish on behalf of the delegation's explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, chairman. Among other things, one of the damage caused by the Long-Term Care Act is that it removes the allowance for aid and service, while at the same time offering the people who are receiving it no substitute that would be equivalent to the one it already is. Specifically, in Article 136 of our amendment, we retain the aid and service allowance on the subject of what is hidden in the article and on which this article refers, and these are specifically war disabled people. War invalids who have already obtained the right to an allowance for aid and service before this law comes into effect or who have already obtained the right to an allowance for service, the amendment provides that this allowance should also be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u328	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 136 of Article 1 has been adopted, the amendments of SAB and SD to this Article under Article 2 and the amendment of the Levica Group to this Article under Article 3 have become irrelevant. However, since the amendment of the SAB and SD groups is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 153, this amendment has thus become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 140. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 141. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 143 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 146. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 150. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 151 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 153. 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the SAB and SD groups shall become amendments, the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups and the SD and SAB amendments to this Article. Two to four, meaningless. Miha Kordish, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. The amendment shall be read; the second and third paragraphs of the amended Article 153 shall be deleted. In translation, we keep the allowance for help and service, and we throw it out of the Long-Term Care Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u330	Vote, no, explanation of vote, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Dejan Židan. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u331	Thank you. The amendments are submitted to maintain the aid and service allowance, as well as the legislation imposes, as this is not a social right, but a right of insurance [[?]] At the same time, at the request of the disabled, we keep a family helper for persons with mental disabilities in a way that does not result in modern slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u332	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 153. 3. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD and SAB groups shall become an amendment to this Article. 4 non-essential. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As an amendment to Article 153 of the SDS, NSI and SMC were adopted. 3, has become the amendment of the SD and SAB groups to the same Article under No. 4 non-essential. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 154. 1. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The remaining amendments of the LMŠ to Article 154 under Articles 2 and 3 have become irrelevant due to the non-admission of the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 127. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of Article 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: “The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government.” We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 4. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Administration in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 11. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 11. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment will become irrelevant to Articles 13 and 15. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 415.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 13. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 15. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 11, 13 and 15 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the pride of the amendments adopted in the second reading of the draft law has not been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Natasa Sukič, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u333	Thank you very much, chairman. Look, it's another law that proves more that the government is acting like we're not just before the elections and that it has to use these few months to completely destroy all democratic and inclusive tools. With amendments to the law, the Government definitively raises religious freedom issues to exclusively the RCC and definitively subjugates the areas of the information society. First of all, as far as religious freedom is concerned. At the end of 2020, Vasko Simoniti dissolved the Office for Religious Communities, which worked within the Ministry of Culture. The government has dissolved the Council of Government for Dialogue on Religious Freedom. Instead of both, we have now received the RDC Council for outstanding issues, for which no one knows exactly what it is doing, except that we can reasonably assume that this move by another religious community is being cornered. It's an eccentric privilege of already-privileged RDC. But what's really bad is that between the new powers within the prime minister's own time, there will also be the removal of the church or the religious community from the register and the decision on the possible registration of a church or a religious community. The government will, today, secure this with an amendment, acquire powers immediately, watch out, and the organizational transfer of the delay in 2024. The government coalition actually plays all of the rules in force in the National Assembly when this law is being considered. However, the second set of amendments to this Act relates to the transfer from the field of information society from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government's Digital Transformation Service. With the help of his service coalition through the Uber Minister, Janez Janša will have a direct impact on specific administrative definitions in the field of information society and not only on the powers of other ministries, but also on other state authorities, in a very sophisticated way, through transitional provisions. For example, the distribution of radio frequencies and the conclusion of post-construction contracts will be new. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a broadband network under the direct influence of the Prime Minister. Janez Janša obviously kidnapped the country. We are actually the largest organised places in the world, which even past weapons affairs do not go to their knees. In Levika, of course, we will vote unanimously against this very, very bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u334	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 38. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Emergency Health Measures in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 24 November 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left, SAB and unrelated Members to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1(1) was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this Article became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' Groups of the Left, the SD, the LMŠ, the Sab and the Non-Aligned Members for a new Article 2.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same motion to the title of the chapter shall become a transitional and final provision without reference. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members for the new Article 2a has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of the chapter has become a transitional and final provision without purpose. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, in the second consideration, the assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended bill, and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. [[No, no, ……]] I'm breaking up. Explanation of vote, colleague Andrei Zabret on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u335	We now know that in the current law on emergency measures in the field of health, the Government has forgotten self-employed, social workers and farmers. Where a quarantine has been imposed on them or their child has been quarantined, or if the work cannot be carried out because of force majeure, it did not belong to them or is not due to any income loss. Such an arrangement is simply discriminatory and also dangerous from an epidemiological point of view. That is why we in the LMŠ have already warned the Government in October to do something in this area, but since nothing has happened, we have prepared a proposal for a novel in the LMŠ and have also tabled it with the opposition. With this novelty, we propose a refund, a partial refund of the lost income for self-employed, employed associates and farmers who are placed under quarantine and, in the case of quarantine, will receive compensation for lost income. It is essential that we also want to correct this injustice in return, so that this law applies from 1 July to the end of the year, to 31 years. 12. 2021. Now, the refund is €250 for 10 days and not more than €750 per month. Now, we also wanted to extend with our amendment the measure for employees, because now they will be in an unequal position, so unfortunately this amendment has not been adopted. I am pleased, however, that all the parties, as it seemed from the point of view of the parties, have expressed their support for this law, so I am pleased that we have come together in such an important topic and we will support it unanimously, as this law appears to be, so that I am also grateful at this time. But I have already said on the committee itself that it is not important to us who submits this law and who is signed under it, but that this law is adopted, because it is ultimately for the people and, above all, that they do not spread, that it is not the spread of an additional virus.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-24-SDZ8-Izredna-87.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 87th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. The meeting was closed on 24 November 2021 at 21.35.
