ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Igor Zorčič from 1 p.m. on, Željko Cigler, Iva Dimic from 1 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. and Franc Jurša. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE OFFICER OF THE STATE CONGREGATION IN THE FIELD OF THE PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first-signed Gregor Perič. At its 12th meeting, on 6 October 2021, the Rules of Procedure Commission considered the draft Supplement to the Rules of Procedure as a working body. Since the Commission has not adopted the draft Supplement to the Rules of Procedure with the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present after its final consideration, the second consideration of the Draft Supplement to the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the working body has been completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First, he gets the word Vojko Starović, who will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The first-signed drafter of the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure, which we are considering today, argues that without the proposed amendment he cannot carry out his work effectively, this is the conduct of a parliamentary inquiry to investigate the alleged money laundering in the NKBM and the disputed financing of the SDS party. The solution to the successful investigation of SDS financing is seen in the revision of the Rules of Procedure, which would also allow one of the investigative commissions to meet with two working bodies at the same time. The main task of the National Assembly is the enforcement of the legislative branch of power and therefore the rules of procedure give priority to the working body which adopts legislation rather than to the investigative commissions. The purpose of parliamentary investigations is in particular to identify the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions and powers. It therefore considers this institution to be a means of control or opposition or a legislative body as a whole over other institutions. The fact is that in this mandate, according to the previous number of parliamentary investigations, almost a double number of these are being investigated, since at present seven different areas are being investigated in the National Assembly and most of them have been caused by the affairs of the ruling party and these governments, both the controversial financing of the SDS party and the acquisition of protective equipment and the illicit political interference of the police. It also maintains the fact that the President of the individual Commission must manage the restrictions in order to work in a successful, timely and efficient manner. Therefore, taking into account the legislative advantages of the work, attention must also be paid to the possibility of members being involved, the State Assembly's timetable, and bearing in mind, however, that the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry is limited in time. As has already been pointed out, in this mandate there is an increase in the number of investigative commissions that carry out their work on a regular and regular basis. Therefore, we are rightly asked why the first-signed amendment proposal is the most hampered in investigating the alleged illegal financing of the SDS party, while other commissions are doing their work on a regular basis. In the SAB, we certainly support the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, but at the same time, we understand the proposed amendment mainly as an excuse and an excuse for the first-signed proposer, why, under his leadership, the commission investigating the prime minister in the NKB and the related alleged financing of the SDS party does not meet regularly in this mandate and why, as it turns out, it will receive its epilogue. We have opposed the proposed changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Before taking the floor on the day ahead, I would ask my respectable colleague Starović to take into account the rules of procedure and other matters relating to the positions and matters required at this point on the second time they give their views as President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Procedurally, Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	See, Madam President, I have made my views known by the Group of Members, not as President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. So your statements are incorrect. Secondly, it is agreed between all parties that those who hold meetings either by the National Assembly or by the Committee or by the Commission shall not comment on the debaters and the speakers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Mr Starović, you have given your position to the Group of Members, but you are also the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, and you have no basis in the position of the Group of Members for calling on any of the Members to apologize for what you have asked of Mr Perič. This is not the position of the Group of Members in this respect as regards the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I suggest we move on. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are an extremely important act which, in the legislative process, we are obliged to respect precisely all those involved — Members and Members, professional services and the public concerned. Members of the Desus Group see the Rules of Procedure as a good and final act. This is also illustrated by the fact that it is not often the subject of change. It is precisely the subject of this proposal to complement the Rules of Procedure, which is the number of working bodies of the National Assembly, which can be held at the same time, has been the subject of several debates, but the necessary majority has not yet been reached. The rules of procedure now in force provide for the simultaneous meetings of two working bodies. The proposals and initiatives went in the same direction as either three working bodies, or two working bodies and one investigative commission, or two working bodies and the KNOVS, as well as some similar options. This proposal introduces the possibility of a simultaneous meeting between two working bodies and one investigative commission. The fact is that the number of working bodies within the mandate increases directly to the number of investigative commissions. Currently, we have 13 working bodies, 8 committees, 2 subcommittees in the National Assembly, seven investigative committees. Not only the number of working bodies, but also the number of meetings of individual working bodies from the term of office increases, especially on the basis of requests for urgent or extraordinary meetings with very political themes, which often have nothing to do with the actual problems of citizens. In the Group of Members, we are aware of the purpose of limiting the simultaneous meetings of working bodies. We are also aware of the problems, the problems that the current restriction brings. This is mainly a problem in finding a free date for regular meetings of working bodies. On Mondays, when work is scheduled in the parliamentary groups, on Tuesdays, when work is scheduled in the parliamentary groups, on Thursday morning, when government meetings are scheduled and therefore the representatives of the ministries are detained. Additional problems arise from requests for emergency meetings to be held within 15 days, far exceeding the number of regular meetings. In the Desus Group, we regret that the proposal has not received sufficient support on the working body, as this makes it impossible to discuss both the definition of all other Members and Members. Personally, as a member of the Rules of Procedure Commission, the proposed solution is to be met simultaneously by two working bodies and one investigative commission, and I would support it, together with my fellow Members, in this Chamber. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed change in the direction of the simultaneous course of two working bodies linked to the legislative process and another working body which is not bound to the legislative process is an investigative commission to account for the quality and responsibility of the National Assembly as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Let me first mention that the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure, which would allow for the simultaneous meeting of three working bodies, has had a long beard. A similar dilemma has been raised in the previous mandate and a final comprehensive proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been prepared. At that time, there was no sufficient agreement to supplement, but mainly because proposals were also made to remove the restriction of the reference only to two working bodies at the same time for all working bodies of the National Assembly and not only for investigative committees. In this mandate, the former President of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering in NKBM, the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly, colleague Jani Möderndorfer, submitted a full proposal in February 2019. However, since the Commission had just considered another proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure for the Rules of Procedure, Mr Möderndorfer, with the support of the Presidents or Presidents, then the two Commissions of Inquiry which had been set up, had tabled an amendment which had been tabled: “At the end of the new fifth paragraph, the text “and to refer to the meetings of the Commissions of Inquiry established under the law and the Rules of Procedure governing the parliamentary inquiry” was added at the end of the new paragraph. The second, then Tonin's proposal, however, was that the exception for the simultaneous meeting of the three working bodies should only apply and only for the convening of meetings of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, which at that time faced the same problem of finding free deadlines for the convening of meetings as well as all investigative committees. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, it is recalled that four new Commissions of Inquiry have been set up since then, so that at the time of its consideration of this Supplement the Rules of Procedure operate seven investigative committees, none of which have been completed by parliamentary investigations. Mr Perič, who succeeded Mr Möderndorfer in leading the investigative commission mentioned above, this time, in cooperation with the five presidents of the investigative commissions, made an entirely identical proposal, so I will read it again: “A new fifth paragraph is added after the fourth paragraph of Article 48, which reads as follows: Notwithstanding the restrictions set out in the previous paragraph, one investigative commission may occupy one working body at the same time as the third investigative commission.” In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we regret that the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission who have not supported the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure do not recognise the difficulties faced by the Commission of Inquiry. It is true that the College of the President of the National Assembly has provided for a special date for the meeting of the Commissions of Inquiry in future plans, but it is worth noting that permanent working bodies have priority in citing these meetings. Therefore, sometimes, more than a month after the proposal by the President of the Commission of Inquiry has been tabled, the meeting of the Commission of Inquiry will be convened, although in principle the Rules of Procedure should be convened within 14 days. We have therefore supported this proposal in our parliamentary group. Once again, we would like to point out that the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation is established by Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is a means of controlling either the opposition or the entire National Assembly over the functioning of the other branches of government. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in organising the work of the National Assembly or its working bodies do not sufficiently take into account the specificities of the work and the needs of the investigative commissions. The supervisory functions they perform cannot be equated and, in our opinion, cannot be limited to the business provisions due to the work of the other working bodies of the National Assembly, which are not required to carry out the legislative procedure, nor to other decisions under the competence of the National Assembly which do not have the nature of a parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, despite the fact that the proposal has not received sufficient support, we will try to re-convince at least the working group of the Rules of Procedure Commission, which is preparing a broader set of additions and amendments to re-classify this proposal, as they also pointed out the problem of restricting the reference of working bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Good day to you all! Unfortunately, in the Slovenian National Party Group we are very disappointed at the fact that good proposals, good for all parliamentary groups and especially for the functioning of the National Assembly, are unfortunately not accepted. A supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was proposed as the current regime no longer allows for the normal functioning of the National Assembly. At the same time, two working bodies may meet at the same time after the current regulation. Such a restriction prevents the work of the National Assembly from going smoothly, as there are more than obvious needs for work to be done to a greater extent, for which we Members are finally paid. However, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be supplemented in order to accommodate more working bodies at the same time. We have a very small group of Members ourselves, but we support the proposal because we are trying to ensure the presence of our Members at each working body meeting. After all, this is our job. There are growing problems in society, and the need for three working bodies at the same time is essential. The current solution, which allows only two working bodies to meet, unfortunately does not correspond to the progress made in society and is a consequence of past social conditions and demonstrates the rigidity of regulation. The proposed amendment would ensure, in particular, respect for the public principle of the functioning of the National Assembly and the principle of the economy of the functioning of the National Assembly. The organisation of the National Assembly must be such as to fill the public's interest in information, response and the immediate management of current problems. As a Member, I have the feeling that somehow he wants to prevent the work of the National Assembly in a way that does not support the addition that is good. We deeply regret this in the Slovenian National Party Group. In the light of the constitutional decisions, a two-thirds majority of the votes cast by Members present are required to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This majority is very difficult to achieve. Today we are at a loss, because it is the interest of many Members to make changes, but it is limited to adopting a qualified majority. If we could meet more than two working bodies at the same time, it would also make sense to consider the new premises of the National Assembly or the place where the University of Ljubljana is located, or according to Plečnik's plan to build a new building, this is a building on the other side of the Slovenian European coin for 10 cents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We are saddened by the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party that today we will not decide to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Regrettably, despite a good proposal at the meeting of the opposition's Rules of Procedure Commission, it decided to prevent the Rules of Procedure from changing towards a more active part of the National Assembly, so that one investigative committee could meet at the same time in addition to two meetings of the home committees. Thus, the change in more efficient work was opposed by this same opposition, which is sweeping this national assembly with meaningless emergency meetings. On the other hand, it asks for the establishment of investigative commissions on topics that are not at all problematic. Surely in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that they will be the loudest in the opposition at the end of the term, how they were unable to complete their work in the investigative commissions. By paraphrasing, they will talk about how much more they can do, but at the same time, they show that they cannot act, that their work is merely to be guesswork. But such is the current opposition, which also undermines the good suggestions of those who want to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A group of five Members and Members proposed to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which would allow one Commission of inquiry to meet at the same meeting of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Even today, this group has decided not to have this position, for the current arrangement provides that at the same time there may be no more than two working bodies of the National Assembly. This provision shall be respected in practice in such a way as to enable two working bodies or two investigative committees or one working body and one investigative commission to meet simultaneously. In this mandate of the National Assembly, we have a total of 21 committees and commissions and seven other investigative commissions, which is at most one mandate of the National Assembly. It is true that we face so many problems with the timely and spatial classification of meetings of working bodies and investigative commissions, but it is the opinion of the Social Democrats that we are going about this in the wrong way. It is not the solution to simply allow the two working bodies and another investigative commission to meet simultaneously with the Rules of Procedure. And there are more reasons for that. Firstly, we are convinced that the seven parliamentary investigative commissions are too limited in one term, and we are inclined to consider that the number of investigative commissions in one term of the National Assembly would be limited by law, taking into account, of course, the criteria of the proposed investigative commission. Social Democrats are of the view that the National Assembly is a legislative body in the first place, while investigative activity should be a primary activity for others, for this purpose for the competent national authorities. Secondly, Members and Members at this time, as members, we operate in five, six and more working bodies. We have several simultaneous meetings of working bodies where we are members under the current business arrangements. This is a problem for the smaller parliamentary groups, and this is particularly common, and we often face difficulties in providing a quorum at the meetings and, as a result, in the decision-making process itself. The proposed business complement would certainly further deepen such problems. Thirdly, the working bodies of the National Assembly have a very important role to play after business arrangements. We often make decisions that can no longer be changed at the plenary session of the National Assembly. We are assessing the social democrats, which also makes this very important when we decide whether to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and allow for the simultaneous session and decision-making of more than two working bodies of the National Assembly. In doing so, it certainly appears to be prudent to consider all aspects of the proposed amendments. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure have not considered all, in particular the negative, consequences of such solutions, but have only had before their eyes the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry, which is chaired by them. Social Democrats have therefore not given support to the proposed additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Vice President. The challenge of being able to meet more than two committees at once has been present in the National Assembly for a long time. It also, of course, demonstrated itself in this mandate by this proposal, which did not receive support from the Rules of Procedure Commission. The position of the Left Party is the same all the time. We estimate that the current regime, when it is possible to meet only two working bodies, including the Commission of Inquiry, is entirely appropriate. As we have already heard, this is particularly relevant for the smaller parliamentary groups. Those with three, four, five Members could face serious difficulties if such arrangements were in force because, after a hypothetical situation, several Members would be required to be present at the same time as the Group of Members on three working bodies. This, of course, means greater confusion in the work of these parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. In principle, it should be that Members who are members of working bodies are interested in this area, investing in an area covered by a particular working body and dealing with this topic. It is said to speak of the possibility of replacing these things in a different way means, at the same time, reducing the quality of the work of the National Assembly and its working bodies, which I think is already at a lower level than it could have been. However, the second point that was important in this proposal, which was under consideration, is the very purpose of the applicants. The first-signed proposer is the President of the Commission of Inquiry, investigating suspected suspected transactions by the largest coalition party and having difficulty citing and finding deadlines for the meeting of the Commission. In principle, all other investigative commissions operate without major problems. Only one investigating the disputed financing of the SDS party has some crazy problems looking for dates, which we believe is an attractive excuse. If all the other investigative commissions can find the dates and also coordinate the deadlines for the hearings, we believe that this could also be done by this investigative commission. It is, however, the fact that it is least active of all at this time. Why is that, we'll leave it to speculation, but you can draw your own conclusions. We have not supported the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in Levica, nor have we supported similar proposals in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly currently provide in its 48th Article that at the same time, a maximum of two working bodies may be held. However, the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure, which we have discussed on the Commission, proposes that, irrespective of this restriction, at the same time as the third working body, another investigative committee should meet. I hereby base our proposal in the Group of Members on the fact that only appointed members and their deputies and not any members of the Group of Members may participate in the meetings of the Commissions of Inquiry, the proposal ensures a slightly more flexible work of the Commissions of Inquiry. In the current mandate of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure Commission has already considered a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The objective of the proposal was to apply the exception to the meeting of the third working body only in order to convene meetings of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. Jernej Vrtovec, with some other presidents of the commission of inquiry, already proposed an amendment to the Rules of Procedure when considering the amendment at that time, that the exception in addition to the KNOVS should also apply to the convening of meetings of investigative commissions. Neither the amendment proposal nor the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure at that time received sufficient support. At the last meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission in the New Slovenia Group, we supported the proposal, but we regret that there was insufficient support because it would make it easier to operate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the Proposal for Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 30 Members and Members with first-signed Yuri Lepo. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues all have a good day! In Article 1 of the novel, we propose to amend Article 135 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, by proposing a change in the purpose of school funds payments, so that funds from them can also be allocated to the participation of children, students and students from socially less conducive environments. They would be intended for activities related to the implementation of the public policy but not entirely financed by public funds. This would ensure equal opportunities for all participants. Many Slovenian schools and kindergartens have established funds which are basically designed to raise funds for extra-standard education activities, but are often intended to help socially weaker children and students. Some cannot afford expensive winters and flights. The total indicative value is between 120 and 240 euros. Many schools also organize other trips and camps where teachers combine technical, cultural and sports days. These activities are also financed by ensuring that families that cannot afford these costs are paid from these school funds. We find that such disbursements from the funds are not systematically regulated. Some schools allow it that way, but others don't. The rules are also very different. Applicants, we therefore propose uniform rules and conditions for obtaining such assistance that would apply to all school funds. Assistance would only be provided for the participation of children, pupils and students from socially less prosperous families in activities related to the implementation of the public school programme, unless it was financed entirely by public funds. In the second paragraph of Article 135 of the ZOFVI, we propose that, irrespective of the regulation of the law governing income, the beneficiary of donations from the intended part of the income for each year may also be a kindergarten fund or a school fund. Funds for the operation of the Funds are obtained mainly from contributions from parents and donations from companies. The proposed amendment of the law will also allow for funding from the so-called earmarked part of the income that can be used in accordance with the Income Act to finance the generally beneficial purposes of NGOs. We are of the opinion that, in addition to NGOs, these funds can at least partly be obtained by schools or school funds, as they carry out the same mission as humanitarian organisations when funds are also allocated to help socially disadvantaged families. However, in the transitional provision of the novel, it is proposed that, pending a different arrangement of the Income Act, irrespective of the provisions of Article 25 of the Income-2 Act, income as income relating to education shall not also be paid from payment to preschool children, pupils, students or students from the school fund. Teachers, principals and school workers are almost uniform in their opinion that schools should also be able to collect and pay untaxed aid, as is the case with humanitarian organisations. Schools should certainly be trusted by the State to really distribute aid to people who need it to solve school content and teaching aids. Such aid cannot in any way be regarded as income. Thus, we propose that monetary assistance for the purposes described should not come to the income base of parents for the payment of income. This derogation from the Income-2 Act applies from 1. 1. 2022. Payments to children from socially disadvantaged families are now not exempt from income payments, since this is not a legal basis, but are considered gifts. However, gifts are taxed on income if their annual value exceeds €84. However, since most of the remittances from the school fund exceed the amount recorded, it is legal to provide that all payments from the school fund can be fixed as tax exemptions with the Income Act. This amendment removes this unfair regulation and gives the legal basis for paying to socially weaker children, pupils and students the exemption of income payments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 22nd regular session, on 30 September 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Yuri Lepo. At its 114th regular meeting on 31 August 2021, the College of Presidents adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. The Committee was provided with material published on the website of the National Assembly. No amendments were tabled within the time limit and proposals were submitted for amendments to the Committee by unrelated Members, LMŠ and SD to Articles 1 and 2. The representative of the applicant said in the introduction that the draft law changes or specifies the purpose of the school funds more clearly. In addition to financing over-standard activities that have a general impact on better quality education for all children and pupils, the purpose of school funds is complemented by the way that funds from school funds can, under certain conditions, also be allocated to the participation of children, pupils and students from socially less conducive environments in those activities related to the implementation of the public policy, but not entirely financed by public funding. The beneficiaries of the cost of participation in individual activities may be those children, students or pupils who are granted the right to a snack subsidy, as a maximum percentage of the cost of lunch, under the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds. The representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport explained that the Government does not support the proposed law. The proposed arrangement, whereby funds from the school fund would also be allocated to the participation of children, pupils and students from socially less conducive environments in activities related to the implementation of the public policy but not fully financed by public funds, is not appropriate as it would jeopardise the primary purpose of the school fund. He said that the school fund, for its primary purpose, was not aimed at solving the economically weak, so that, with the additional purpose of using resources, as proposed by the amendment to Article 135(1) of the ZOFVI, the decision-making autonomy of the Management Board of the School Fund would be affected when deciding which activities, equipment and other means of raising the standard of teaching are meaningful and necessary in the local environment from the School Fund and are for the benefit of all children, students or students, irrespective of social status. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. Her representative said that in her opinion they had pointed out the non-systemic regulation of tax matter in other laws. Such regulation reduces the transparency and integrity of the rule of law, which can also be disputed in terms of the rule of law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supports the proposed amendments. Her representative postponed the opinion and said, inter alia, that the Commission supported the proposaler's intention to follow the child's benefits by means of the fund in ensuring equal opportunities in education and education, irrespective of the child's social circumstances in which he lives. The debate focused on equal opportunities for all children in the school system. A member of the committee has been exposed to support the Government's intention to regulate matter in the Income Act, and until then the proposed law should be adopted. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Damir Orehovec will present the opinion of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! With regard to the proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Yuri Lepo, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave a written opinion and presented it specifically to the competent education committee. The proposal amends Article 135 of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, which governs the School Fund, extending the purpose of the School Fund. The School Fund is now intended to finance activities that are not an integral part of the education programme or are not financed by public funds. It is therefore intended to purchase superstandard equipment, raise the standard of teaching and so on. A proposal for an amendment to the ZOFVI would therefore add a humanitarian purpose. Other things that are changing, the school fund is also becoming a beneficiary of income work and it is also proposed to exempt income payments from the school fund, which is temporary as an exception to the Income Act, i.e. to a different arrangement in that law. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has raised some concerns about the proposal in its opinion, we believe that, in view of the amendments adopted and the complementary proposal of the law, the dilemma has been removed, as no amendments have been tabled to this proposal. On the basis of everything I have said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the resources allocated to educational institutions at state and municipal level are sufficient to carry out the most basic school activities. I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular the cost of purchasing school supplies that put a large number of families in despair at the beginning of the school year, not to mention the wishes, the interests of children about attending different school activities that have a significant impact on the development and design of the child's personality and thus on the success of further life. School funds represent an important source of funding that schools can allocate for activities that are not part of the educational programme or are not financed by public funding: the purchase of superstandard equipment, the raising of the standard of teaching and so on. The basic legal definition of the purpose of school and kindergarten funds was stated. We can see from the reports of the Fund's boards what all schools specifically contribute to. Among them is help for families in distress, allowing all children to take part in trips, excursions, camps, schools in nature and other activities, which otherwise could not be attended. Such assistance, however, is a yard sword under the applicable legislation, since the family budget can be charged with income payments. Support for the good has never harmed anyone, even if it is not systematically regulated, which is sometimes an excuse that marriage proposals do not receive sufficient support for adoption, even though the solutions proposed are meaningful and for the benefit of people. We have before us a proposal with content that does not just belong to school legislation. It would be more appropriate to regulate the exemption from the payment of income from the school fund in a law governing income. The proposal for a new law regulating income and dealing with it at this meeting of the National Assembly also regulates this matter. The new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education will provide a legal basis with a sufficiently clear substantive definition of the possibility of remittances from the school fund which will not be subject to payment of income. On the occasion of previous legislative initiatives to address this issue, the Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, pointed out that the diction of the purpose of the school fund should be regulated in such a way as to include the possibility of funding or assistance to cover the costs of individual children and students from a socially weak environment. In addition, the possibility is introduced that the school funds may be recipients of a part of the income of tax residents. In the view of Members of the Desus Group, the new law, which is ahead of us, adequately sets the destination of payments from school funds, sets the appropriate criteria for payments and introduces uniform rules for all school funds. As a result, in our Group of Members, we will all support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thanks again for the word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We would like to start by thanking all members of the parent working body, as well as all the other Members and Members you have announced today or will announce your support for this novel. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we reiterate that the proposed content is completely non-ideological. The solutions proposed follow the provision of children's benefits and equal opportunities for their development. Although the bill or issue has long had a beard, directors, teachers, educators and other school workers have for many years warned that schools and schools should also be able to choose and pay untaxed aid to socially weaker children, students and students within the framework of the funds they have set up. This time, however, the government has taken the view that the proposed amendments go beyond the substantive framework addressed by the Fund's legal arrangements, namely that they finance only over-standard activities and that, with regard to the income proposal, it interferes with another system law, and also proposes that this be resolved in the social system laws. In response to these statements from the government, for the first time, I am very pleased that the government has changed its opinion at this time and I thank her for not objecting to the law. Here I would say that it has been four years since the first promises made by the competent authorities to deal with the problem. Neither did the previous government categorically oppose the amendment of the law. The bill therefore follows the direction of the government, even if the previous one. As you know, the proposed solutions have also received the support of state councilors or the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport. Many of them come from education and education and from local communities and firsthand say that they are most vulnerable to the social conditions in which children live, so they are also looking for different ways by means of funds from these funds to help children from socially weaker families. To a certain extent, funds are already being used in the form of financial assistance to children for the purpose of their education, participation in various activities. These activities include local communities, which also seek to help children or families. In Slovenia we have a good pre-school and school system, but there is an increasing number of costs in the education and education system, which are not covered by basic standards provided by the State and the local community, such as paying trips and content, access to additional educational assistance, the possibility of purchasing compulsory school supplies, the equipment to carry out school tasks at home and so on, for which these children need financial and material assistance. Therefore, the law clearly and unequivocally provides that funds from the school fund may also be allocated to those activities of children, pupils and students from socially less stimulating backgrounds associated with the implementation of the public education programme but not fully financed by public funding. In addition, the law provides, in the transitional provisions, for a tax exemption for all payments to children from the school fund to the appropriate tax regime. Among the important solutions to this novel, we would also like to highlight provisions which provide that the beneficiary of the grant from the earmarked part of the income may also be the school fund or kindergarten fund. Funds for the operation of the Fund shall be financed primarily by contributions from parents and donations, and newly, parents will, instead of paying contributions from their own pocket, allocate to the school fund part of the income they pay to the State. We believe that such a solution is in place, as when funds from school funds are also allocated to help socially weaker children, students and students, the same mission as humanitarian organisations such as Slovenian Karitas, the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, the Red Cross and others. However, as we are aware that the school funds cannot take over their tasks, because the primary purpose of the funds is not of a social nature, we have limited the funding grants to 0.3% of the income, and the rest will still be allocated to humanitarian organisations as it has been so far. On the basis of the 2019 income figures and taking into account the above-mentioned increase in income from the CAP7 to 1%, we are confident that the school funds will also be able to receive some million Euros of donations under this heading with this restriction if parents choose to do so. So I'm glad we're gonna do this the way we need to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	Well, hello, everyone here. We are very pleased to boast that education in Slovenia is free, with which many parents disagree. School expenses, and after all for kindergarten, are raised during the school year. For a lot of families, school is a big financial asset, and unfortunately there is a situation where a child does not go to school in nature because there is simply no money at home. A lot of times it happens that a child is miraculously ill because it is a more elegant way to avoid some activity for which there is no money. Many schools and kindergarteners recognize the plight of children and use school funds to solve the situation. How much and how will they then do this in order not to exceed the magic limit of €42 and €84 is then the domain of ingenuity of the individual director. If the principal is not innovative enough, the school or the recipient has been taxed. The idea that such aid would not be taxed is certainly commendable, as is the idea that a percentage of the income could be devoted to the school. Primary school is compulsory in Slovenia. They usually lay the groundwork for the continuation of the children's journey. That is why it is right to allow this very stage to be the richest and most beautiful period or life course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. President, thank you so much for your word. Hello, Secretary of State. Greetings, colleagues and viewers. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education brings a welcome change to the article defining the functioning of school funds. The new Article sets out in more detail the purpose of the school fund, and thus follows the need not only for a school that acquires superstandard equipment with donations, but also for individual pupils and students from less stimulating backgrounds who participate in activities of a school that is not entirely publicly funded, which has also been the practice of schools so far, but this has also been taxed when the price is exceeded. Novela's doing it. At the same time, it is essential that part of the income can be allocated to citizens not only for NGOs but also to schools and kindergartens. The amendments specify the terminology of the bill and thus improve it. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the solution. At the same time, it points out that in the future it is necessary to arrange educational activities for schools in such a way that they will be fully publicly funded for all students and students and children in kindergarten. In this regard, it stresses the importance of healthy nutrition as part of the educational programme. All of these, however, require such an integrated, systemic and financial arrangement, which the Slovenian Democratic Party will strive to achieve at the best time. The Slovenian Democratic Party thus recognises the change of law as one of the steps leading to the stated objective and will therefore support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some kids don't go on a school trip, some kids don't have lunch at school, and some kids go home before lunch. Some may not really want to go on a trip or like school food, but among them are those who would like to go, but their parents do not have money for bus and entrance and lunch and lunch. In Slovenia, there is still a great deal of poverty that confronts a large number of families that are the most outgoing and have no opportunity to provide quality education and education for all children equally. In Slovenia, more than 41 000 children live below the poverty risk threshold. As a result of the pandemic and its related restrictive measures, child poverty is increasing. The bill follows the objective of pursuing the child's benefits and ensuring equal opportunities in education and education irrespective of the child's social background or social circumstances arising from it, so we signed a proposal to amend the law. The proposed solution changes or makes the purpose of the school or kindergarten funds clearer. The existing Article 135, which amends or complements, says that the school establishes a fund that finances activities that are not part of an educational programme or are not financed by public funds: the purchase of superstandard equipment, the increase in the standard of teaching and so on. The Fund’s purpose is complemented by the allocation of funds from school or kindergarten funds for the participation of children, pupils or students coming from socially disadvantaged backgrounds in those activities linked to the implementation of a public programme and not entirely financed by public funds. The proposal to amend the law also establishes the exemption of income from the fund until the legislator settles this issue by means of a sectoral system law. The novelty will also allow for the financing of income up to a maximum of 0,3 %, which can be earmarked in accordance with the Income Act for the financing of various non-governmental organisations operating in the public interest. We always support effective measures based on the needs of children and their families aimed at creating an enabling environment that contributes to the eradication of child poverty in Slovenia, so we will unanimously support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go. Comrade Bevk, check out? Wait? I suggest we move on. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thanks again, Vice President. The question or problem addressed by the law with the first-signed Mr Leprechaun is certainly pertinent and realistic. So it's a question that needs to be addressed. But we are not sure in Levica that this is the right way. The fact is that schools should not only be free on a basic basis, but should be fully, it is said, also in superstandard programmes and in additional activities be accessible and open to all, regardless of their material status. As we have heard in previous opinions, it is clear and, of course, we are all aware that this is not so at present that many children do not go on different trips or complementary activities that they perform in schools because their parents cannot afford it. Our position is, and we will continue to advocate that the country is the one that must ensure that primary schools are treated equally and have the same starting points. And the state will take care of it. That's her role, and that's how it's supposed to be. As far as a concrete proposal is concerned, it may be a step towards eliminating the differences between the less wealthy and the more wealthy students. However, it has one small disadvantage, and this is that the way to collect in the funds of income subsidies does not eliminate poverty in the same way or impose equal starting points in the same way. We have many congregations, many places, many regions in this country, and we all know the problem of being unevenly developed. This means that larger cities or larger industrial centres or where more labour intensive industries are, as a result, also have higher revenues and income from this point of view would flow to a higher degree into already more profitable places. This could, of course, eliminate differences in property status in these places, but at the same time remove these differences in smaller areas where they are less privileged, to a lesser extent. This will keep the situation where, I don't know, Ljubljana remains larger cities easier and better address these differences through these school funds, while schools on the periphery will have these options to a lesser extent. So it would make sense from our point of view if it were regulated in such a way that the State, the Ministry, would collect the central income and then evenly distribute it across all the funds in all schools in Slovenia. In this way, we would ensure that income can be distributed evenly regardless of where the school is located, it is said that this distribution would occur evenly. Nevertheless, we will not, of course, oppose this law. Once again, however, it must be the responsibility of the State to ensure the free basic education of all to the full, but not to leave it to the benefit of individuals, parents and businesses as well, but that it is a matter that must be regulated at national level, that in fact all have equal starting conditions so that these differences do not arise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State! Today's proposal for the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education concerns the functioning of school funds. The school funds were primarily set up and organised as a source of resources to provide equipment standards and to raise the standard of learning. Today, however, school funds are often replacing and providing social assistance to children from socially weaker families in the participation of schools in nature, sports days and other activities. It is true that the initial school funds are designed to provide superstandard services by reaching all pupils. For example, some schools have purchased 3D-printers with the help of the school fund, which are definitely superstandard equipment and allows the technical training to be carried out. Others have once again purchased special stages for the performance of singing choirs and other superstandard equipment. At the meeting of the home committee, the Secretary of State pointed out that the school funds should not be transformed into social funds because the school is an educational institution and we have in the country adequate institutions and NGOs whose mission is primarily to provide for the socially weaker. Life and practice have shown that school funds often replace family deficits. In recent years we can see that these are not always and only low-income families, but more and more often families from the so-called medium layer who have to spend a large part of their family budget on rents for housing or on the payment of a rent for housing or credit. But the fact is, children are our future. All children need equal opportunities for education; every child must be able to develop their abilities to the greatest extent. Knowledge is a great value, and education must therefore be accessible to all because it allows for progress, greater equality, equal opportunities, better life and even smaller social differences. We appreciate that the principals and principals are doing their best to ensure a level playing field for all students and to manage the school funds in a good and cost-effective manner. In New Slovenia, we would like to stress that the proposed important solution is that the money from the fund for each student or student will not burden the income base of the parents and consequently reduce the family's entitlement to other family and social benefits such as child allowances, state grants and other forms of social assistance. Currently, funds for the operation of school funds are financed mainly by contributions from parents and donations from businesses. Today's proposal, however, provides the solution that funding can also be made from the so-called non-changeable part of income. This means that in the future 1% of the income will be allocated to the school fund or kindergarten fund. Today we can devote some of our income to humanitarian organisations as well as to firefighters and other organisations acting in the public interest. In Novi Slovenije we have written in the basic programme of the party that the humanity of a society is seen as solidarity in the family, neighborhood and society itself. We can't lose anyone, and we can't forget anyone. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. We have already supported the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, and this will be the case today. The social situation of individuals and families is not limited to the level of income of individuals or households, although on certain segments of the social policy, household income has been established as the main criterion for determining the social situation of an individual. However, the social situation of a family or individuals is not equal only in material situations, especially if it does not provide equal opportunities in society. In fact, social policy must ensure equal opportunities for individuals and families in all segments of social life, i.e. in the education and education sector under consideration today. In the field of education and education, social policy has been reflected in Article 2 of the current Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which considers the provision of equal opportunities for the education and education of children from socially less stimulating backgrounds among the educational and educational objectives in the Republic of Slovenia. Other objectives are, of course, no less important, as, for example, the objective of ensuring equal opportunities for education and education in areas with specific development problems may also be part of social policy. Proposals for a first and main solution propose that funding from the School Fund should also be earmarked for the participation of children, students and students from socially less stimulating backgrounds in activities related to the implementation of a public-level programme but not fully funded by public funding. Currently, funds from the school fund are allocated to finance activities which are not part of the education programme and which exceed the school fund framework, as it is intended to finance only superstandard activities. Nevertheless, we had the opportunity to hear representatives of directors at the meeting of the competent Commission of the State Council, who pointed out that schools are facing social issues that often undermine equal opportunities for children in education and participation in additional programming activities. They stated that to a degree the school fund funds are already being used as financial assistance to children from socially weak families for their participation in various school activities. It is also a common practice that parents are already making payments to the school fund mainly for the purpose of helping children and students to participate in the activities of the standard programme. The novel under consideration is therefore a response to real needs and it is therefore appropriate that, where necessary, the funds of the school fund, for example in areas with special development problems or in socially less stimulating environments, are used to a greater extent to finance the activities of the already standard programme. The second solution to the bill is the possibility that the beneficiaries of the income grant may also be school funds or kindergarten funds, so some logical upgrade to the first solution. As a last resort, it is also proposed to exempt income from school funds for preschool children, pupils and students. The proposed amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education are good, and we will be happy to support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Act on Protection before Ionising Sevents and Nuclear Safety under the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Dr. Metka Gorišek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	All in attendance, all in attendance! President, thank you for your word. I would briefly summarize the amendments to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, adopted in 2018 and updated for the first time in 2019. The main reason for this time’s additions is to comply with the European Commission’s Directive on fundamental safety standards for radiation protection. This will also address the violations we have had with the transposition of this Directive into our legal order. In addition, the provisions of the applicable law on regulated professions had to be properly prepared. A provision to verify the effectiveness of measures to reduce radon concentrations is also complemented. In addition, additional requirements are added in the law on inspection of construction measures and new constructions and other interventions. One of the major changes is that the law now gives jurisdiction to the new Ministry of Control over the operation of the compulsory public economic service with radioactive waste, which is the ARAO. Previously, this was the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environment and Space. That's what I'd have for an introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 32nd meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In the introductory explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Robert Rožac, explained the content, objectives and reasons for the adoption of the bill. It stated that in 2018 a revised legislation on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was adopted which transposed Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom on the establishment of basic safety standards for protection against ionising radiation into the Slovenian legal order. In 2019, for the first time, the law in force was amended and supplemented by the regulation of security checks on foreign nationals working in a nuclear facility in the management of radioactive substances or the transport of nuclear substances. However, due to the European Commission's formal reminder from 2020 due to the incomplete transposition of that Directive, a legislative amendment was resubmitted. The content of the draft law is therefore fully relevant to the findings of the European Commission's official reminder, due to the inconsistencies in the transposition of that Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The draft law thus includes additions to remedy infringements relating to the transposition of that Directive relating to Articles 3, 42, 49, 54 and 137 of the existing law. This is a matter of minor, materially less significant inconsistencies in the transfer. As he pointed out, the provisions on regulated professions in Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Law had to be further amended accordingly, as they included, inter alia, references to articles which did not regulate regulated professions, and the wording of Articles 158 and 159 of the Law should be harmonised in a timely manner. He also pointed out that the provision on the verification of the effectiveness of measures to reduce radon concentrations in Article 68 of the Act and the Terminologically Harmonised Text in Articles 66, 70 and 181 of the Act was supplemented. However, a provision on inspection of construction measures for new construction and intervention in existing buildings to protect human health against the harmful effects of radon is added. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its written opinion on the draft law, had made minor nomotechnical comments, which had been duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and by which the errors of a nomotechnical nature had also been corrected. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, Mr Bogomir Vnučec, stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no comments on it. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 8, 10 and 15 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Your Honor! The fundamental objectives of the law do not change, only minor violations are addressed. Security is very important for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia when we talk about radiation and nuclear safety, especially for those who work or live near a nuclear facility. One of these is in Posavje or Krška, where I come from and where we have the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. In doing so, we must not forget that the health of those employees or temporary workers who perform renovations each year at a facility where they are further exposed to a high risk to health is also important. We are talking about extreme burdens on workers who are paid well, but they are doing work for about a month or two. It is very important to be informed and adequately protected against natural and other disasters in order to avoid unloved incidents that would have far-reaching consequences throughout Slovenia. None of us want a Chernobyl accident. Occasionally, workers need to be imported from abroad at the time of renovation, so it seems appropriate that they are subjected to strict safety medical examinations to carry out additional education at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. As far as knowledge is concerned, experts or experts must cooperate. In the workplace, knowledge, experience must be intertwined and complemented for the best possible final decisions and to address certain concerns about how to deal with a particular situation. Workers who work in buildings where radiation is present, for example at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and Krka Factory in Krka, seem even more vulnerable and susceptible to any later occupational diseases if it is not properly arranged for their safety and protection. This is the responsibility of the employer as well as of the worker himself, as he respects the rules, measures and so on. Collections of personal evidence data of exposed workers contain quite a few data, where citizenship is now added in addition to the birth date, place of birth and sex. I'm asking you why the word nationality could not be added. We are inclined to strive for the best possible optimisation of radiation protection, border doses, disaster prevention, permanent education, preparedness and other principles. It is necessary to ensure that our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are as safe as possible so that those concerned will not feel the harmful effects of radiation exposure. The content of the authorisation for the conduct of radiation activity, the measurement of radioactivity in the environment and, of course, inspection supervision is also important if all of us are to draw the line together. Finally, let me mention that in the Slovenian National Party we are committed to building the second block of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant as soon as possible, because it will be good for the Slovenians, because nuclear energy will be the energy of the future, which we have no doubt about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to France Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the secretary, secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The applicants state that the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety was adopted in the National Assembly in December 2017 and entered into force on 6 January 2018. The amendment of ZVISJV-1A, which entered into force on 11 May 2019, amended the law for the first time and supplemented it. The proposed amendments and additions introduce the necessary corrections, removal of false convocations, in respect of regulated professions, the wording of Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Law should have been corrected accordingly, as they also included references to articles which do not regulate regulated professions. The basic objectives of the proposed law are to include some of the requirements of Council Directive 213/59/Euratom, which adds a new definition of the concept of radiological object, the added obligation to cooperate with authorised experts of radiation protection with authorised experts of medical physics. Nationality shall also be added to the specific data of the exposed worker; a more precise definition of the company performing the radiation activity and of the company which is the external operator of the radiation activity; a more detailed definition of the data to be reported by the external operator of the radiation activity to the operator of the installation or to the operator of the radiation activity; a more detailed definition of the content of the authorisation for the use of a highly active source of radiation. The proposed law does not prejudice the already existing basic principles of the law of the competent authorities, which are in accordance with the Resolution on Nuclear and Radiation Security in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2023. The most proposed amendments and additions to the current law are editorial in nature or are intended to remedy minor inconsistencies and shortcomings that have appeared in the application of the applicable law. Due to the proposed amendments and additions, enforcement rules will not have to be amended. The proposal was prepared in the framework of informal inter-resort cooperation and confirmed at meetings where representatives participated. We support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The legislative proposal that we have before us today by Members and Members is the result of an official reminder from the European Commission, which Slovenia received in 2020. We have been reminded of the inconsistencies or incomplete transposition of the EU Directive. This law, according to the proponents, eliminates minor violations that have been reported to us and, as such, does not prejudice or alter the existing fundamental principle of the law that is in force. The main objective of the law is to include certain requirements of the Directive. A new definition of the concept of a radiological facility is added, the mandatory cooperation of authorised experts of radiation protection with authorised experts of medical physics is added to the personal data of the exposed worker, the definition of the company carrying out the radiation activity and the information on the company which is the external operator of the radiation activity is further detailed. In particular, the determination of the data to be reported by the external operator of the radiation activity to the operator of the installation or to the operator of that radiation activity shall be specified. The Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Energy have agreed and proposed amendments to the competent ministry for the supervision of the operation of the statutory public economic service operator for the management of radioactive waste. The proposal is that the Ministry of Environment and Space, and no longer the Ministry of Infrastructure, as it has been so far, will now supervise the operation of the Radioactive Waste Agency. In the SD Group, we believe that the warnings or warnings we receive from the European Commission due to incorrect or only partial implementations and transpositions of directives are unnecessary, as this should not be the case. At the same time, we support any effort that goes in the direction that the following warnings or even punishments do not occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	Dear President, thank you very much for your words! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which is currently under consideration, does not make substantive changes to the basic law. The most corrections are editorial amendments relating to changes in terminology in other laws, for example in relation to the Construction Law, which also defines the concept of the building and the building. Other amendments concern the European Commission's warnings. These are inconsistencies in the transposition of the 2013 Directive into the Slovenian legal order, to which the Commission has again pointed in its letter of 30. Ten. 2020. Thus, a new definition of the concept of radiological facility is added; the mandatory cooperation of authorised experts of radiation protection with authorised experts of medical physics is added to the personal data of the exposed worker; a more precise definition of the company carrying out the radiation activity and of the company that is the external operator of the radiation activity; a more detailed definition of the data to be reported by the external operator of the radiation activity to the operator of the installation or to the operator of the radiation activity and a more detailed determination of the content of the authorisation for the use of a highly active source of radiation is added. In particular, I would like to stop in the control of radon concentrations in closed areas, which essentially relates to section 9 of the Act. The determination that even after the rehabilitations to prevent the presence of radon should be regularly monitored in the long term, we welcome. It is added that measurements of radon concentration should be carried out to check the effectiveness of measures to reduce radon concentrations every seven years and not only once within six months of the imposition of measures or construction operations. Since the provision has been added on the basis of experience of the use of regulations and probably came from professional circles, we do not challenge it. I wonder directly whether it may be because of human security, for example, of facilities where children reside or economic activity takes place, i.e. facilities where people spend more or more time, but it is still mandatory to introduce monitoring at least every five or three years. Radona also touches on Article 15, which introduces from the basic law the omitted provision concerning inspection of construction measures for construction and intervention in existing buildings. I'm afraid the radon is cancerous. It is a radioactive gas with no color, odour and taste that is produced in the decaying chain after the breakdown of natural uranium, so it is present everywhere in the earth and travels towards the surface. It is particularly exposed to areas where the stones are more permeable, so it is also most in the area of the karst soil. In recent years or in the last two years, since we have suffered quite a number of earthquakes or have experienced ourselves here in the Assembly of Earthquake, the sad fate is that radon then travels to the surface and becomes even more dangerous to residents and residents in closed buildings as well as outdoors. I don't think there should be too much further checks when it comes to the health of our people. We will not oppose the law in the Group of the Left, but we want more and more monitoring to be done when it comes to human health, because the only thing we actually have is health and quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	Vice President, thank you again for your word. Due to a reminder from the European Commission, the Republic of Slovenia was invited to remove inconsistencies in the transposition of Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom into the Slovenian legal order. The proposal for a law therefore includes additions to remedy infringements relating to the transposition of that Directive. It is thus added to the Act that radon concentrations to check the effectiveness of measures to reduce radon concentrations should be carried out every seven years and not only once within six months of the imposition of measures or construction operations. The supervision of the operator of the compulsory public service for the management of radioactive waste shall be transferred from the energy ministry to the Ministry responsible for waste. The law shall also include the obligation to cooperate with authorised experts of radiation protection with authorised experts of medical physics where necessary. The database on the personal doses of exposed workers shall also include information on nationality and more accurate data on the company carrying out the radiation activity. It is specified that the external operator of the radiation activity must also report data on the radiation doses received in the current calendar year and in the last five calendar years in addition to the collection of personal doses of the exposed workers before the start of the work in the controlled area to the operator of the installation or to the operator of the radiation activity. The authorisation to carry out the radiation activity of a highly active source of radiation should, in a new manner, also contain minimum criteria for the efficiency of the source, the source container and additional equipment. In addition, provisions on inspection of construction measures for new construction and intervention in existing buildings to protect human health against the harmful effects of radon are added. As this is a matter of building measures, either the construction method, the preparation of the foundations and so on, it is an inspection of the work of construction inspectors. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will certainly support the bill. Our guide is that we must strive to explore and develop human and environmentally friendly technologies. In addition to solar and wind energy, the opportunities for Slovenia are seen mainly in the better use of water energy and the use of wood biomass. We are also open to new technologies based on renewable energy sources. We allow the use of nuclear energy if we cannot provide sufficient energy from more environmentally friendly sources for the development of the country. In doing so, it is essential to take into account the maximum safety criteria and throughout the process it is necessary to choose such technologies that reduce the amount of nuclear waste to a minimum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, whose main objective is to transpose certain rules that fall within the framework of the requirements of the Council of the European Union. This includes, inter alia, the obligations of the participation of authorised experts in radiation protection with authorised experts in medical physics, and some concepts are being redefined. In addition, certain regulations relating to the security verification of foreign nationals are being amended and thus provide an adequate level of security. These procedures will need to be followed up in countries whose nationals are persons checked. It is important to point out that the proposed amendments to the law are without prejudice to the existing principles of the current law, which was in line with the Resolution on Nuclear and Radiation Security in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2023. The majority of the amendments introduced by the bill are only nature-related texts or are intended to patch certain holes in the current legislation. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome the Government's efforts in our view to establish high standards of control over potentially harmful assets. Ensuring human health and safety is becoming one of the areas in which both the competent institutions and the legislator must pay particular attention, with the extraordinary dynamics of technological development and our needs. We also welcome the proposal for a law supplementing the existing law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The achievements of science enable the safe use of ionising radiation in many activities in medicine, industry, research and, finally, electricity production. Legislation in this area is extensive and subject to a thorough change and transfer of the latest scientific and technical knowledge. This is also done by the European Union, all with the aim of preventing irreparable consequences for human health and the environment. We need to be aware that we cannot detect ionizing radiation with our senses. However, in case of uncontrolled and uncontrolled radiation, it may cause cancer, burns, blindness and also affect reproductive functions. That is why we also have today on the table the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly in July 2021. The 2004 Act of Refunds is currently in force, which was adopted in the National Assembly in December 2017 and entered into force in January 2018. In 2019, the law was amended to regulate the security checks on foreigners as a result of the European Commission's official reminder and the law should be amended and amended from 2020. In view of the incomplete transposition of the Directive of the European Union laying down basic safety standards for the prevention of ionising radiation hazards, the proposal for a law removes reported infringements, such as terminology harmonisation, elimination of false calls on regulated professions and the like. This Directive lays down uniform basic safety standards for the protection of the health of individuals, the proportion of occupational exposure, exposure to the public and health exposure to ionising radiation risks. The proposal for a law specifies more precisely the information on the company carrying out the radiation activity and the information on the company which is the external operator of the radiation activity and the concept of a radiological facility. The proposal also adds the obligation to cooperate with authorised experts of radiation protection with authorised experts of medical physics and to add citizenship to the personal data of the exposed worker. Ionising radiation is therefore used in many fields in medicine, industry and research. Due to the nature of the regulation of the law, namely to minimise harm to human health and to radioactive contamination of the living environment, strict restrictions and precision are essential in this area. As a directive, the draft law sets out in more detail the content of the authorisation for the use of a highly active source of radiation and the data to be reported by the external operator of the radiation activity to the operator of the radiation activity. A change is also proposed, linked to the competence of the Ministry of Business Control of the statutory public economic service operator for the management of radioactive waste. The Ministry of Environment and Space will follow up on the operation of the Radioactive Waste Agency. In the SAB Group, we agree with the necessity of transposing a European directive setting out uniform basic safety standards for the protection of the health of individuals, while noting that the issue of nuclear safety is the protection of people and the environment against the harmful effects of radioactive radiation in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. After 2018, when Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom on the establishment of basic safety standards for the prevention of ionising radiation introduces a revised legislation in this field, we are now introducing, for the second time, amendments and additions to the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. For the first time, the law was amended in 2019, with a view to regulating the security checks of foreign nationals carrying out work in a nuclear facility, to work on the management of radioactive substances or on the transport of nuclear substances. This amendment refers to an official reminder from the European Commission from 2020 adopted by Slovenia due to the incomplete transposition of Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom implemented in 2018. The draft law thus eliminates minor and materially less significant inconsistencies which are necessary in view of the full transposition of the said Directive. The draft law appropriately refers to references in the provisions on regulated professions and coordinates the text of certain articles in a terminology manner. The novelty under consideration is supplemented by a provision to verify the effectiveness of measures to reduce radon concentrations. A provision has been added regarding inspection of construction measures for new construction and intervention in existing buildings to protect human health against the harmful effects of radon. The proposal also amends the Ministry of Justice for the supervision of the operation of the statutory public economic service operator for the management of radioactive waste, transferring control from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the Desus Group, we agree with the content of the proposed amendments and we will unanimously support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is an exploratory proposal for a resolution on the general long-term development and equipment programme of the Slovenian military by the summer of 2035. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to Urosh Lampret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	Dear Vice President! Dear Members and Members! The motion for a resolution on the general long-term development and equipment programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is the basic and highest development guidance document of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with which the National Assembly sets out the direction of its development and equipment in the period up to 2035. The resolution currently in force was adopted in 2010 during the period when we faced the economic and financial crisis. disproportionate interventions into the defence budget have plunged the Slovenian Army into a period of regression, as long-term and medium-term targets have not been implemented. However, the financial situation was not followed by significant structural adjustments to scale and structure. This has resulted in a number of structural and developmental deficits, reflected by the current staffing and material situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and limited opportunities for carrying out its basic mission, the defence of the country. The motion for a resolution represents the continuity of all previous efforts to improve its defence capacity. The legal and other changes and adjustments in the defence area, such as the 2016 Strategic Defence Project, the 2019 National Security Strategy and the 2020 White Paper on Defence, are taken into account. The drafting of the resolution also included a wide range of stakeholders in the defence and security fields. When reviewing the trends and characteristics of the security environment, we cannot be overwhelmed by utopian naivety, but by sober realism. In doing so, I must point out the arc of instability both in the east and in the south of the European continent. The consequences have already been directly felt in us through increased migratory pressures. Taking into account the experience and difficulties of global change forecasting, the best response to strategic surprises is a well-prepared and responsive defence force. To this end, in preparing the motion for a resolution, we have made every effort to address the challenges facing the Slovenian Armed Forces in an integrated and systematic manner. A number of measures and solutions are identified for its conceptual, functional and organisational structural modernisation and guidance for the construction of modern military capabilities, which will enable the Slovenian Army to fulfil its statutory tasks and also to assume international commitments. Among the measures that we want to strengthen and guide the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I must point out in particular seven systemic measures that are crucial to improving the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. First, the establishment of more capable military capabilities. Adapting the scope, structure and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces by creating a full core of priority forces. Establishment of a spatial organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the ability to increase forces. Strengthening the professionalism of military ethics of leadership. Improving the legal status of members due to the specificities of the military profession. Sixth, upgrade of the military education and training system. Seventh, last, preparation and implementation of modern strategies, doctrines, tactics and procedures. In doing so, we developed measures based on realistic assumptions and actual social capabilities and, despite the current state of the Slovenian Armed Forces, designed measures in a manner that is timely and, above all, realistic. The measures will be implemented in three stages or periods of development. First to include 2026. The second between 2027 and 2030. The third between 2031 and 2035. The development of the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces will focus on enhancing its fighting capacity, strength and readiness, with priority for the establishment of a medium infantry battalion equipped with 8X8 armoured vehicles by 2026. This will be the core of the Central Battalion Battle Group. After 2027, support modules of the fighting group, such as artillery, air defence, military engineering and other support elements, will be updated or built. After 2030, it will form a medium-sized reconnaissance battalion. The Slovenian army is in the service of the country and it is right to provide it with adequate conditions and resources for the sovereign defence of the state and citizens, which is also its legal task. We have in mind, in particular, sufficient, predictable and stable and long-term sustainable provision of financial resources for its provision and development. The resolution also brings a change in the scope and structure of the Slovenian Army. The total peace-keeping coverage of the Slovenian Armed Forces is planned to reach up to 10,000 members and members, with a final ratio of 7 000 permanent members and up to 3,000 reserve members, with that ratio being achieved gradually. Dear Members and Members! The motion for a resolution before you is set ambitiously while taking into account the real capacities and needs of the Republic of Slovenia. We have joined the preparations with a sincere desire and commitment to strengthening the Slovenian Army, its readiness and equipment with this security and defence of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the Slovenian soldier deserves quality, safety and technological advanced equipment, and that he must be supported by a professional, professional and effective military organisation in carrying out his duties. For this reason, I propose that you support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 17th session, on 5 October 2021, the Defence Committee considered the draft resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Modern Centre Party were tabled within a time limit. The initial supplementary explanation of the motion for a resolution was provided by the Minister for the Defence of Magi on behalf of the applicant. Mr Tonin, who presented the main objectives and main solutions to the motion for a resolution. The resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is, as Minister Tonin said, the highest development guidance document, which plans to achieve the necessary stage in the long term for the development of the organisation and modernisation of the forces and the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to achieve national interests and defence objectives in the modern security environment. The resolution foresees the multi-phase development of the Slovenian Army to speed up the elimination of the accumulated developmental backlogs of the past decade and directs the development of the Slovenian Army to the establishment of more capable and effective military capabilities. Key comment from the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service presented by Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek refers to the content and nature of the resolution as an unlawful act of the National Assembly. The resolution is defined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as an act by which the National Assembly assesses the situation, sets out the policy and adopts national programmes in specific areas. The resolution is therefore a political and, in part, an expert act, which represents general political orientations in a particular area, which is also legally regulated, has no legal effect, but its power as all political acts of the National Assembly derives from the authority of the legislator, namely the position of the National Assembly as legislator in the state regulation. The characteristics of the resolutions have not been properly taken into account in the drafting of the text of this resolution, which is attributed to the excessive degree of specificity of the motion for a resolution, which raises the issue of its compliance with the substance of the resolution as a policy-making act. Brigadier Robert Urbanč, Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, said that the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is a key document with which the National Assembly defines the objectives, path and resources for the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. He stressed, however, that the proposed resolution was thoughtful and necessary and that it was a military profession. The Council of State and the President of the Commission of the National Council of State Rajko Fajt said that the Commission for State Arrangements at its meeting had considered and supported the motion for a resolution. In the debate, the panellists from the coalition parliamentary groups supported the motion for a resolution and the opposition Members objected to the motion for a resolution or were detained until the motion for a resolution. Coalition MPs were of the opinion that a regulated state must have the military and the resources to ensure that the military is preserved, which the current government is working towards. The opposition Members questioned the implementation of the resolution and wondered where the country would receive funds for its implementation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted all amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present and guests from the Ministry of Defence. Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. The resolution we are considering is the highest development and guidance document, a plan that plans to achieve the necessary level of development of the organisation and modernisation of forces in the long term, as well as the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to achieve national interests and objectives in the defence field. Why is the resolution on the development and equipment of the Slovenian army even necessary? Maintaining and strengthening the defence capacity and resilience of the country are the primary civic responsibility of all the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The strategic review of the defence carried out by the Ministry of Defence in 2016 showed that the challenges in the area of financial, human and material resources, which the Slovenian Armed Forces has been dealing with for several years, have made the development of the Slovenian army difficult. In 2019, the adopted Resolution on the National Security Strategy also speaks of an increasingly unpredictable and uncertain security environment. The medium- and long-term development objectives set were not supported by the necessary resources and significant structural adjustments in the Slovenian Army, as demonstrated by the multi-annual negative assessment of its readiness and critical assessments of the Alliance. These findings and assessments were taken into account in the preparation of the new programme of the resolution, i.e. the plan for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the long term until 2035. This is a government that guarantees peace, order and security, and that means a lot to our citizens. In the European Union and more broadly, Slovenia has a good name. It should also be among the allies in the field of defence and peace and security. In the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that strengthening our pillars of state is our responsibility, that is to say that the responsibility for the safety of our citizens is on all of us as representatives of the legislative body. We therefore strongly support that the forthcoming resolution sets out the objectives of the development and equipping of the Slovenian army by 2035, as well as the fact that we now have clear visions of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the resolution on what we need from resources such as human resources, that is, soldiers, contractual reserves and material and financial resources. Your Honor! We're talking about the foundation of the country, about national security. We are therefore talking about the basis for achieving all other national objectives. These are not blank letters on paper, but the aim is to reach this promised 2% of GDP threshold for investing in the defence of their own country by 2035. The total peace-keeping scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces will include 10,000 Slovenian Armed Forces members by 2035, of which at least 7,000 will be permanent members and up to 3,000 members of the contractual reserve and new forms of the Slovenian Armed Forces' contractual reserve. In the absence of sufficient provision of scope and spare composition, the resolution allows for the re-evaluation of the usefulness of the introduction of known or upgraded forms of military duty. However, this is a 14-year period in advance, so that these financial resources are proportionately distributed and will, as a result, have an impact on the improvement of the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia for military defence. We wish that in the coming years the assessments on the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to operate in peace and also its defence capabilities in the event of war would be very good. At the same time, in the SDS Group, we are aware that this is a condition for the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia in its efforts for peace, security and stability both at home and in the international community. We will unanimously support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	In LMŠ we are aware that the military needs funds. The government of Marjan Šarc was also the first government to raise funds for military investments after 2010. A lift is also needed in view of NATO’s commitments, but this does not mean that we can overstep and deepen public debt. Especially because the resolution does not specify the values necessary for the implementation. But this is just a classic example of solving the substantive issues of this government, if we're going to spend the money, where it comes from, and now it doesn't matter, we're just going to rent another loan. In fact, such a way of thinking is naive, has already been processed and exposed to all the dangers of addressing the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. Today we are discussing the resolution. We still have a valid one, but that's another thing, isn't it? Furthermore, the Minister states that the resolution is not binding. If that's true, then we don't really need it. The ongoing review of the document under consideration reveals a great deal of irregularities, shortcomings and superficiality. They mix strategic and actually operational content in the same chapters, one very specific, the other very wrapped in a nebula. For example, payment for contract reservists, exit from the single pay system and so on. What does this have to do with the resolution? This resolution is obviously just the basis for something else. Then there are other inconsistencies. I quote: "The Slovenian army will create the conditions for increasing its size and structure, with an increased likelihood of extreme deterioration of the security environment or direct military threat." What is the actual extreme deterioration of the security environment? Or is the resolution just a document brought together by the so-called Piarists? It is also written that the next year infantry regiments become battalions, the logistics brigade becomes a support command, and the current territorial regiments will be operationally at rest. What does that mean? Or will you leave them for a reserve, leave only a name, and redistribute the people? Further: “An experimental unit will be formed to test and operationally use modern technologies and tactics.” What's that? What will be the composition, where will you get the footage? Not to mention the formation of a non-ethnic company in 2022. We have no reason to explain what all of this means. This is only a fraction of the questions that urgently need answers before we consider such an important document. What has really upset us the most about reading this resolution is the risk of the Slovenian Army. As he writes, I quote: "The lack of public support and political will. There will be no social climate in the country to support the development of a national security military system. Lack of achievement of goals and ambitions due to internal resistance.” The proponent himself writes that the army itself is the greatest risk. Immediately in the next phase, the greatest risk to the nation is. The development of the Slovenian Armed Forces is therefore the most critical social climate, public opinion or resistance within the defence system. So public opinion is a problem?Oh, my God! In the LMŠ, we believe that the realisation of resources must go hand in hand with a vision, a vision that will guide the development of priorities in the areas of information, robotics and cybernetics. In LMŠ we see the current situation and the issue of investing in the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the hierarchy of priorities or lack of them. They're not there. What we read and discussed is just a political pamphlet. Today, we will hear much about how we restore dignity, provide resources, and so forth. It's not like that. We cannot support such a motion for a resolution in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	Dear President! Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have proposed that the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be withdrawn from the agenda of the working body by 2035. Unfortunately, coalition Members and Members did not accept arguments for withdrawal. The Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces is in force until 2025. She was 23rd in the National Assembly. 11. 2010 adopted by 73 votes to 1 with 1 in favour. The resolution is therefore still in force and is in our opinion in line with the Slovenian Military Development Guidelines. However, the Ministry of Defence has all the guidance and implementation documents enabling the operation and development of the defence system. Therefore, the next government, whichever will already be able to verify, under 1, the implementation of the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 and under 2, the implementation of the long-term achievement of the stage of the development of the organisation and modernisation of the forces and the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the fulfilment of the national interests and interests of the common European security policy and the NATO policy. These two reviews, together with the other strategic military documents, will form the basis for the preparation of a new resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the next period, taking into account the new international security environment, including the rapid development of new technologies, new ways and forms of warfare and other globalisation effects that will indirectly affect the world's security environment and are linked to Slovenia. The safety environment will also be affected by climate change, which will be reflected in the difficult provision of food, water, energy and space. Finally, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the next government will be able to draw attention to the opinion and serious warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly when preparing the new text of the resolution. Social Democrats are aware that during the years of the financial and economic crisis and during the recovery of the consequences of this crisis, the Slovenian Armed Forces suffered a greater financial deficit. The financial resources were not sufficient and investment in personnel, equipment and development at some point stopped. However, other resources were also subject to financial cutting measures. It is true, however, that the State of Slovenia is not and does not today fulfil the promises and commitments it has made to international organisations in some other period. In the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, one of the measures for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces refers to the improvement of the labour and social status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is regulated by the laws for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is dealt with in the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. On the other hand, the Social Democrats, we supported or did not oppose the proposed changes and additions that went towards solving these problems. Your Honor! According to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats estimate that the proposed resolution is written very quickly and superficially. Our position is that in the electoral year, until the elections there is still a few months left, following an unnecessary rush to discuss and adopt the proposed resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. We cannot therefore support the proposed resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Resolutions on the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces could be made by a resolution on the further purchase of weapons that we do not really need. What kind of shopping ticket is that? By 2035, the resolution provides for an additional €5.6 billion to be allocated to the military, mainly for the purchase of weapons. This is a huge amount that citizens and citizens will still miss on those vital systems that they actually need: health, social, development, education, infrastructure. All of this will be curtailed if the resolution is adopted and the ruling set continues to pursue the objectives set out therein, and these €5.6 billion will be lost in foreign military complexes. All of this is happening at the same time as we can find that Slovenia is not militarily threatened. But she's at risk of health care, she's at risk of social harm, she's at risk of housing and something else. These are priority areas that should be pursued by any serious government, but unfortunately not by John Janša. And this is just the beginning of the story. A little while ago, a law was passed that will allocate €780 million for arms purchases by 2026. But already in the current budget, as Janez Janša's government has brought to the table, we can see that these costs of the law are not actually complete. The price of shells alone has risen by 130 million euros. What, then, can we expect from the war purchases contained in the resolution? €5.6 billion will not be €5.6 billion, we will talk very quickly about €7.8 billion and €9 billion. Remember how the price of Oshkosh in the current arms affair grew. It started with €15.5 million, continued with €32 million, but now we are 38 shells to €55 million. 350% increase in just two years. Is that how this is going to happen with the arms resolution? People in this country know what they need, and they know that the new purchase of weapons for NATO missions tens of thousands of miles outside the borders of our country is not in their best interest. This is only in the interest of foreign military complexes and NATO generals operating at security meetings as commercial passengers of this or that industrial conglomerate. And so much more so is the climate crisis at our door. Not only do we have to respond to it without delay, but in fact governments across the world are very late to respond to climate evil, the effect of which we can also feel in the developed world. It is the military industry that is one of the largest pollutants that drives the climate break. Not only does the government allocate resources in areas we do not need, but these areas are also those that drive the environmental crisis to a large extent. These are all the reasons why we are proposing in Levica, we demand that a referendum be convened on the subject of the resolution on arms purchases and the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we cannot put a binding legislative referendum on an act which is a resolution, but we can put an advisory opinion on it. Let people express themselves clearly and out loud about what they really want. In fact, we know what people want, what we can see, when we called a referendum for the 780 million-euro law, and then the government made it impossible by its political maneuvering and controversy. In just one week, we have collected 30,000 signatures from citizens and citizens. In the middle of the epidemic, in the middle of the frost, they stood in line to sign a request for a referendum because they do not want our common funds, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia preying on weapons, while they should use these common funds for areas where people really need help: health, care for the elderly, housing and action against climate damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In all the Member States of the European Union, their own army remains an important building block of the sovereign state. In New Slovenia we are aware that the modern international security environment is volatile and unpredictable. After a period of weakening tensions are rising again and the world is increasingly moving away from perfect absolute peace, security and stability. We are aware of this almost everyone in this hall and in Slovenia as a whole. On the other hand, Christian Democrats grieve us with the desire of a minority who rejects warnings and builds up its doctrine with the idea of decommissioning the Slovenian Army. We will not allow this in New Slovenia, we will not allow it. A resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces builds on the highest development and guidance document, which plans to achieve the necessary level of development of the organisation and modernisation of the forces and the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to achieve national interests and objectives in the defence field in the long term. In Novi Slovenija we support the multi-phase development of the Slovenian Army in seven points, which will allow for systematic changes and create conditions for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and thereby significantly improve its effectiveness in fulfilling its missions and tasks. The resolution thus foresees, for the first time, the accelerated elimination of the accumulated developmental backlogs of the past decade and the targeting of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the creation of more capable and effective military capabilities. Secondly, adapting the scope of the structure and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces by creating a full core of priority forces and capabilities, including the objective of the Alliance's capacity. Thirdly, the establishment of a programme of spatial organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces as a starting point with the possibility of increasing the forces of the Slovenian Armed Forces also to use new forms of contractual reserve. Fourthly, strengthening professionalism, military ethics, leadership and organizational culture and climate. Petić, improving the labour and social status of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces due to the specialities and limitations of the military profession in order to increase interest in the military profession and military service. Six, upgrade of the military education and training system and training system. And not least, for the seventh and last time, the preparation and implementation of modern strategies, doctrines, tactics and procedures. In Novi Slovenija we also support the projected gradual achievement of 2% of GDP by 2035 at the latest. The total peace-keeping coverage of the Slovenian Armed Forces will include 10,000 members by 2035, with a final ratio of at least 7,000 permanent members and up to 3,000 members of the contractual reserve and new forms of the contract reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In New Slovenia, we believe that improving the defence capacity and resilience of the state and society requires sustained and coordinated political and social efforts, which must be based on the awareness that an effective Slovenian army is one of the central pillars of the statehood of the Republic of Slovenia and guarantees its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. We restore the Slovenian army with dignity and I can repeat it again, we restore the Slovenian army with dignity, so in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we will unanimously support the motion for a resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Defence! The motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is the highest document for the modernisation and further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The proposed resolution defines the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces in three stages and responds to the fact that since the adoption of the current resolution, the security situation in the world has changed significantly since 2010. The proposed document thus responds adequately to all these new situations and to the numerous findings of the 2016 Strategic Review of Defence. It is not too much to repeat, as some predecessors have pointed out before me, that the motion for a resolution highlights and foresees in particular the following necessary measures: the accelerated elimination of the accumulated development deficits of the past decade, the adjustment of the structure and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the establishment of spatial conditions for its operation, the strengthening of professionalism, military ethics, leadership, the improvement of the labour and social status of soldiers, the upgrading of the military education system and the preparation and implementation of modern strategies, doctrines, tactics and procedures. In order to further develop the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is also crucial to project the gradual achievement of the level of defence expenditure up to a target of 2 % of the gross social product by 2035 at the latest. In particular, let us point out that this is a matter of continuity followed by the public policies of almost all political parties, with the exception of the Left, and the financial commitments and promises made to the Alliance by the former Prime Minister, first Mrs Alenka Bratušek, followed by Mr Marjan Sarec. Remember, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bratušek officially made the so-called Welsh Commitment. With regard to the urgently needed staffing support of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the goal is to reach 10,000 members by 2035 with a final ratio of at least 7,000 permanent members and 3,000 contractual reserve members. The constantly changing international security environment, technological development and awareness that an effective Slovenian army is a defender of our independence, sovereignty and statehood, all of which requires a continuous updating of its capabilities. The proposed resolution also follows that. In doing so, we would like to conclude by stressing that the solutions proposed in this resolution merely indicate the direction of solutions for which specific legal solutions will be adopted at the outset. The proposal for this resolution will be supported by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Dear Members, Members, President of the National Assembly! Dear Secretary of State! The resolution by 2035 is, according to the Ministry, the highest development and guidance document that plans to achieve the necessary level of development of the organisation and modernisation of forces in the long term, as well as the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to achieve national interests and defence objectives in a modern security environment. The resolution seeks to present the Ministry of Defence how they see the development of the Slovenian Army in the future. Unfortunately, we do not support the resolution in question in the SAB, as a resolution in force has now been adopted in 2010 and is still in force until 2025. In the SAB we wonder where Janez Janša's government received money to raise expenditure on the Slovenian Army. Under the government of Janez Janša, expenditure and plans for the coming years fly to the sky. With the support of the coalition at the beginning of the month, the Defence Committee supported a resolution on the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, on the basis of which the equipment costs would increase even faster. Following the current equipment plan, by 2023, the country is expected to spend 345 million euros to invest in the military. In the new draft budgets for the next two years, which the coalition wants to adopt, this sum increases to 491 million. Half a billion. In the SAB party, we advocate a depoliticised, professional Slovenian army offering assistance to civil protection and the development of a common European security policy, but in the SAB party we believe that the government has blown up public finances into total disaster. The resolution adopted will only deepen this. We accept the commitments without covering which the next government will have to implement, and this is simply not going to work. At present, investments in health care are 30% lower than investments in weapons. In comparison, with the government of Marjana Sarca, if it remained in power, the defence ministry should have an additional €561 million available this year and will actually spend it under the government of Janša 136. The resolution represents the maintenance of an army with high capital, with a high burden on taxpayers' money, which is currently missing. With our comments, the resolution could be amended. We have also made our concerns public several times, and we would expect them to be heard and taken into account. Unfortunately, they were not, so we will not support these resolutions in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution before us is a development and guidance document with which the Republic of Slovenia will plan for the development of the organisation and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the long term. Although the document is not legally valid, many guidelines will be implemented through future laws. Although we still have a resolution currently in force until 2025, a thorough update is essential because of the long period since its creation. Finally, the geopolitical situation in the world, technology and security, has changed dramatically. As we look at the situation in the Middle East, we see that the rapid withdrawal of the US military in Afghanistan has led to a rapid change in the current of power after 20 years. The whole world was fearful of what kind of transfer of power would take place and what would happen to the civilian population. Last but not least, these events are actively affecting us, as Slovenia has also participated in missions in Afghanistan. For this reason, it is important that we, too, respond specifically to the demands of modern times. It is true that at present no one is militarily threatening us, but if we have learned anything from history, it is that the situation can change in a moment. Therefore, it is important that we have our own army, which we are also making an appropriate investment in. Of course, in addition to the funds provided, it is necessary to draw up an investment and spending plan that will provide long-term education and training to the appropriate staff. The goal for 2035 is to have 7,000 permanent members of the Slovenian Army and 3,000 contractual reserves. At the same time, up to this year, 2% of GDP would contribute to defence. Of course, these plans are quite optimistic, but given the current economic growth and other factors, they would certainly be feasible. Improving the working and social status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces due to the specificity and limitations of the military profession should be one of the first steps to increase the number of permanent members. Much has been done in this area in recent years, since it is not only about attracting new soldiers, but also about preventing the decline in the number of active members. Various investments in infrastructure and equipment, education and reward could reverse the downward trend in a very short period of time. Despite the assurances made by the presidents of previous governments that they would devote more resources to defence, financial malnutrition has led to the decline and less interest of young people in the profession of soldiers. In the Desus Group, we are aware that investments in equipment will be politically exposed several times as we have witnessed in the near past, but the fact is that without modern and good equipment, the Slovenian Army cannot carry out its mission satisfactorily. Finally, the Slovenian Army also actively cooperates in the event of natural disasters and rescue in the mountains. Support for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces must thus become a public and political issue. We must reject the political trials and relativisation of its existence. Finally, the Slovenian Army is also concerned about our reputation on the international scene, so we need to focus on strengthening professionalism, military ethics, leadership and the organisation of culture and climate. In this way, we will maintain an army that we are always proud of, and we can count on it at any moment. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues have a good day! Today's resolution on the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces detailed a number of measures and systemic solutions to improve the situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, including the structural and capacity-building of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the improvement of the legal status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the upgrading of the military education and training system and the creation of new forms of the contractual reserve, which would significantly improve the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out statutory tasks. The priorities of the Slovenian Armed Forces set out in the resolution include the construction of a medium infantry battalion, which also requires the acquisition of equipment mainly for eight-wheelers and quadricycles, a medium-range transport aircraft and several dedicated helicopters, as well as the construction of a medium-sized reconnaissance battalion. The development of modern interactive exercises and shooting sites is planned, and the upgrade of the secondary training of the Slovenian Armed Forces is in Poček. By 2035 the scope of the Slovenian Army was to include 10,000 members, of which at least 7,000 members of the permanent composition and three thousand members of the Slovenian Army reserve. In this regard, the non-aligned Members advocate that professional members of the military be equipped and trained for military tasks and that members of the contractual reserve take over other tasks in the national territory, assist the police in protecting the state border, participate in the protection and resolution of or protection of military facilities. In addition to the already adopted Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, the financial basis for these plans will also be a gradual increase in defence expenditure. These will rise to 1.5% of GDP by 2024 and 2% of GDP by 2035 at the latest. We are convinced that security is one of the fundamental conditions for the functioning of the development of our society and our country. We believe that the efficiency of the country is reflected, in particular, in the gradual security provided by its national security system to the inhabitants of its territory. We must be aware that with all measures Slovenia provides a high level of security while maintaining Slovenia's position as one of the safest countries in Europe and the world in an increasingly dynamic and complex security environment. This time, the resolution is prepared taking into account the security and defence challenges facing the Republic of Slovenia, and in recognition of the increased unpredictability and uncertainty of the international security environment, including the emergence of new forms of security risks and threats. After a period of relaxation, this tension is increasing again and the world is increasingly moving away from the ideal of absolute peace, security and stability. On the basis of this, we are convinced by the unrelated Members that the improvement of the defence capacity and resilience of the State and society requires a sustained and coordinated political and social effort, which must be based on the awareness that an effective and up-to-date Slovenian army is one of the central pillars of the Statehood of the Republic of Slovenia and the guarantee of its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. As this is also followed by the proposed resolution, we agree with it in principle. At the same time, I would stress the possibility of reintroducing military duty, which is repeatedly mentioned in the text of the resolution. We must be aware that the introduction of recruitment is a complex social process and has significant consequences not only on the military organisation, but also on the economy, education and not least on everyday life and of course on the family. We therefore believe that a broader political and social consensus should certainly be reached in order to introduce recruitment. The proposal to establish a recruitment system should be based on a detailed analysis or study of the current situation, as well as a detailed analysis of the consequences of the launch of recruitment, including a detailed calculation of the financial implications of the project. Unfortunately, such an analysis has not yet been prepared. We stress that changing the way the army is complemented requires the precise and coordinated planning and functioning of all state and social actors. It is therefore recalled that this challenge needs to be addressed with extreme caution, in due time and in non-exhaustible circumstances and with an appropriate long test and transitional period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, all present at the Hall, a nice greeting! We have before us a motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. States are arming themselves, they're always arming themselves, and they'll always be arming themselves, that's crystal clear. It is extremely naive to expect, as some opposing pacifists may expect, not to arm themselves and hope that others will not. History has taught us this and cooperation contrary to historical logic is naivety or treachery. With initiatives, such as those practiced by the Social Democrats, that we must be against weapons with autonomous weapons systems, we would only prove our naivety. Americans have been developing and using so-called battle drones, whose combat efficiency is getting better and more successful. The Russians are producing combat robotic tanks that patrol without drivers and gunmen. Autonomous warships are also used without a crew, such as the so-called American sea hunter or submarine hunter. In South Korea, their largest Samsung company produces according to some data one of the most effective automatic robotic firearms that detect the enemy through heat. In short, countries that are either future enemies or future allies are armed with modern technologies, as they have always been throughout human history. That is why we Slovenians should not only think about weapons but also keep pace with time and arm ourselves in line with technological development. In the past, we have witnessed major development setbacks in the Slovenian Army, which are well improved by this resolution. It is good that modern strategies and military tactics are being introduced into the military. In the Slovenian National Party, we also very much welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Defence, which wants to make the military profession more attractive to future soldiers. Pride of your own country and mentality, which will not be followed by a modern decadent, non-patriotic agenda, will make this profession even more attractive. As Brigadier Robert Urbančič said on the committee – in Slovenia we need a new approach to acquiring, developing and retaining military personnel. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party, we also wish that the Slovenian Army would not so often seek NATO's goals, i.e. I benefit from America, but would actually be in the service of the country. The Slovenian army must follow its main defence interest, I repeat – the defence interest. This, however, preserves the independence and sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State and the inviolability of its internationally recognised borders and territory. This will be achieved primarily by changing patriotic values to our own paternity and following modern weapons trends. Finally, let me say the famous George Washington River: Preparing for war is one of the most effective means of maintaining peace. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. I inform you that the assembly on the motion for a resolution will not take a full decision at this meeting. The proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is submitted. The proposal for a consultative referendum and the motion for a resolution under consideration are thus mutually reinforcing. In deciding on the motion for a resolution, the Assembly must take into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which means that the assembly on the proposal for an advisory referendum must decide before it finally decides on the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will therefore be decided by the assembly following the decision of the National Assembly on the proposal for a referendum. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on Personal Assistants in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Cveto Uršić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The right to personal assistance is a major civilisation achievement in Slovenia and also wider. Living alone and independently was the purpose of the Personal Assistance Act, which significantly improved the lives of users, those with disabilities who need very much support for their own lives. While the implementation of personal assistance in Slovenia is not new, it did not start with the adoption of the law, but before that personal assistance was funded and implemented programmely. However, due to limited resources as a programme, not all users could receive the sufficient number of hours of assistance they needed. As a rule, they got it much less. It was also not possible for all users in need of personal assistance to be provided. With the adoption of the Personal Assistance Act 2017, personal assistance has become a right. All users are entitled to it under the same conditions regardless of their property situation and, of course, personal assistance is not a social adjustment or transfer. That is why the Law on Personal Assistance is a major step forward in the development of disability protection. The law has placed the user at the centre, the scope of the service is determined according to its needs, the user chooses the operator of the personal assistance, the user must have control over the organisation and design or implementation of the assistance according to his/her own needs, abilities, living circumstances, lifestyle, conditions and wishes. Thus, the law in some special way enforces the fundamental human rights of persons with disabilities and, of course, also the objectives of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We are therefore aware at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities or at the Government that the Law on Personal Assistance or Personal Assistance is vital to ensuring the independent life of persons with disabilities and their equal inclusion in society. However, we are also aware that in the implementation of the law in practice it has been shown that some provisions are too general, that individual solutions are inconsistently defined and therefore there is a lack of clarity and also a variety of means of implementation. For example, a personal assistance provider may be an independent entrepreneur, which is contrary to the definition of personal assistance as non-profit activities. Nor does the law provide for sufficient detailed conditions for obtaining the status of the operator. Personal assistance is further defined by the definition of assistance for self-employment and active participation in society, but a greater number of family members may also be employed for the purpose of solving social problems as personal assistants for all hours authorised. So this is about solving family economic and social problems. The training of all stakeholders in personal assistance is also inadequate; finally, the list of members of the professional committees for the assessment of the right to personal assistance is too extensive and the final opinions on the same needs of beneficiaries may vary in different parts of Slovenia. For all of this, we have joined the Ministry or Government in amending the Personal Assistance Act before you. We listened in particular to the warnings of users of personal assistance. For us it is crucial what the user needs and what they themselves have estimated that it is not in the most appropriate way regulated by the applicable law. All our efforts lead to improving the current legal solutions to ensure the best possible implementation of personal assistance in favour of users to ensure independent independent living. Therefore, the support of you, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly in the adoption of this law is still important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Assistance, submitted by the Government to the Assembly, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly then confirmed the procedure. A number of materials were provided to the Committee. Amendments were then tabled in the course of the business period. The representative of the proposer presented the draft law in the introduction. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then presented their opinion. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It points to a reduced procedure or a less difficult change, although the material content changes or complements as many as 12 articles of the Personal Assistance Act and one article is added to a new one. At the same time, the bill in some places also changes the concept of personal assistance law, both with regard to changes in operators, professional commissions, the role of the Institute for Social Protection and so on. Regarding the amendments or proposals for amendments to the Committee, she said that they did not take into account or resolve the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and that they were partially inadequate. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. At the meeting, their representative presented him and said that the bill supported him. The National Council notes that one of the key areas of personal assistance, which is likely to be subject to certain changes in the future, is the identification of potential providers of personal assistance, with an emphasis on family members in the role of personal assistants. The comments or opinions of the interested public expressed mainly support for the adoption of the novel, some made specific comments to the article of the bill. Most discussers agreed that the proposal for a law was needed regardless of some criticisms, as it was a step in the right direction. The debate highlighted the view that the amendment was necessary, although it was not ideal. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a number of comments both systemic and substantive. However, these comments are not followed by the amendments proposed. Following the discussion, the paper was supported by the National Council of Disabled Organizations, the Association of Distrophysics of Slovenia, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, the Trade Union for Personal Assistance and others. Certain things remain open, however, and further discussion is still needed. The Committee adopted its amendments as well as all articles, and in the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Personal Assistance Act provides services that enable people who need help in their daily lives to live an independent and more quality life. The services are tailored to the specific needs of the user or user, his or her abilities, wishes, expectations and living conditions. We support the rights of individuals to personal assistance, i.e. the right of people with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities, which can be restricted in everyday life to participate fully and effectively in society in all areas of life. They shall be given the same opportunity, greater independence, activity and equality, social inclusion in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Personal Assistance Act entered into force in 2019 and there was an immediate problem with its implementation. We urgently need law in our country, but the law currently in force is more than necessary, to which we have warned in the List of Marjan Šarca all the time, but not in the way the Government has envisioned today, the real treatment of the law after a reduced procedure, many stakeholders have not participated in the drafting of the law. The problems of practice are not fully addressed. Prior to the adoption of the novel Personal Assistance Act, the status of a family assistant should be regulated. The opinion of the Advocate of the principle of equality concerning discrimination at the age threshold for obtaining the right to personal assistance of over 65 years of age is not taken into account. In addition, I will mention the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Inadequate explanations, many articles are nomotechnically misdesigned, the novel would result in non-compliance with other laws, some proposed solutions are not even part of the articles of the novel, but are related to other articles of the Personal Assistance Act. While the novels also have potentially constitutionally controversial articles, for example, Article 8 where the purpose of the expanded collection of personal data is not clarified. Of course, we cannot and will not cooperate in accepting this type of stunt in view of the above-mentioned and in view of the opposition of a number of key stakeholders. However, we call on the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to prepare an appropriate amendment to the novelty in dialogue and cooperation. Only then will we be able to improve the law that is urgently needed in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendments to the Personal Assistance Act. We estimate that this is an attempt to correct the shortcomings of the personal assistance system. Unfortunately, the proposal is not systematic and comprehensive. There are still a number of open questions that are not resolved in this law. At the time of the adoption of the proposal for a law in 2017, which introduced personal assistance for us, we warned the Social Democrats that it would be better if we regulated a uniform and comprehensive system of assistance for persons who are long-term and permanently insolvent in carrying out basic daily activities and consequently in social inclusion. Such a system would represent an integrated provision of personal assistance services and long-term persons. Thus, due to the adoption of specific laws, we now have a number of different arrangements regulating similar living conditions differently; especially with regard to the status of persons with disabilities who provide care and assistance. Parents who care for their child with special needs receive only partial payment of lost income under the Parental Protection Act and family benefits at minimum wage. Family helpers who care for a stable person in their home environment also receive only partial compensation for the loss of income of EUR 751. On the other hand, personal assistants shall have all rights arising from a working relationship. It belongs to the 23rd-paid class, vacation, regress, lunch payment, transportation and hospital. It is precisely because of the better status of personal assistants that it has proved in practice that many family assistants prefer to arrange for the status of a personal assistant, even though individual recipients of personal assistance services do not need a personal assistant, or at least not to the extent they receive it, but only care and protection. The result of this situation was an exceptional increase in the number of eligible persons with disabilities who received the right to personal assistance and a very rapid increase in budgetary expenditure from the original 8 million in 2017 to the current 83 million euro in 2021. The exceptional growth in budgetary expenditure today is essentially the reason why we are adopting amendments to the Personal Assistance Act, as some money is expected to be saved, so a reassessment of the needs of persons with disabilities is envisaged in order to reduce the number of hours of offering personal assistance. Some disabled persons will lose their personal assistant status and will have to re-establish their family assistant status, and the number of family members who may be the personal assistants of their relatives will be limited to two members. Personal assistants who so far have offered services alone through espionage will have to join a major personal assistant after a new one. Social Democrats will continue to support the functioning of personal assistance, as it contributes significantly to the independent lives of people with disabilities. A personal assistant allows them to live in a community and to decide their own lives in the same way as others. Since personal assistance is an independent life of persons with disabilities, services are provided wherever users need them for their activities and inclusion in society. Personal assistance services thus enable users to realize their personal desires and interests either in a professional or in a leisurely area. Despite all the positive consequences that personal assistance has for users, it will continue to be developed and upgraded, particularly in relation to the long-term system, in such a way that it will be financially sustainable and will not disrupt the relationship between personal assistants and family assistants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members of the Ministry, good afternoon! The Personal Assistance Act was adopted in February 2017. We did not oppose him in Levica because we advocate the right of a comprehensive personal assistant as a universal right for all, regardless of property or income. The good part of this law is that it defined the guaranteed right to personal assistance, which was a step forward from the point of zero. It was also positive that deaf people without the right to an allowance for foreign aid and service received at least a communication allowance. At that time, however, we had pointed out a major error in the drafting of this law, which has also proved to be crucial in practice. Because the law fully liberalized the field of personal assistance, and the profession of a personal assistant was prefigured. Virtually everyone could become both an operator and an assistant without adequate training or supervision. The current proposal seeks to partially remedy some mistakes, but it also creates new ones. First of all, in Levica, we are appalled at how badly the marriage is prepared. According to the SPS, which has serious comments on virtually all articles, this amendment is constitutionally controversial, vague, non-systematic, opaque, unfounded, incompatible with other laws, linguisticly inadequate and inconsistent with the applicable Personal Assistance Act. The Ministry should draw up a new, comprehensive and transparent law, but consciously decided not to do so. Moreover, due to the limitation of one third of the articles recorded, the law was broken and made completely imprecise. The coalition then voted on a reduced procedure, although the conditions were not met at all, since there were no minor changes. An extremely poorly prepared proposal and adoption after a reduced procedure are only one – the risk of more anomalies and more exploitations in the area of personal assistance. That's why we can't support him in Levica. In preparing this law, the government has dealt irresponsibly with users — people with disabilities who need personal assistance as well as with workers — personal assistants who provide assistance to those in need every day. We also cannot support the law in Levica, which foresees that personal assistance will be reduced by €10 million each year in the coming years. On the other hand, the proposal regulates personal assistants slightly better, but we note that this does not in any way eliminate the exaggeration of workers of personal assistants, as it is still permitted that assistants themselves may be independent entrepreneurs or perform work on other civil law contracts. In this regard, we also propose an amendment that personal assistants should be treated normally as all other workers and that they should be regularly employed and recognised as workers' rights. There is no reason for personal assistants to be understood as entrepreneurs, but only and only as workers who belong to them, such as protection against dismissal, leave, minimum wages, regress; in short, all rights under labour law, which otherwise belong to workers. The amendment also proposes that the user's personal assistance may be performed by a maximum of one family member, as proposed by the expert group and as specified in the first version of the novel. In order to determine that personal assistants can also be family members, two problems have arisen. There has been a conflict of interest between providing income to the family and the needs of the user and a multi-layered problem in the ability of family members to provide personal and emotional autonomy. Family members have a close personal relationship with the person on whom their income depends. Families are thus crucified during the use of the Institute of Personal Assistant to resolve their own family financial distress and, on the other hand, during the use of the Institute for the actual benefit of the user. We have insisted in Levica in 2017 and today we insist that personal assistance should be understood as a de facto public service and that it is necessary to prevent the establishment of “enterprises” that would carry out personal assistance. Our calls then and this time came across a deaf ear, so we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the law, which was adopted by the National Assembly without a vote against the adoption in 2017 at the initiative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. During this time, some shortcomings in the implementation of personal assistance have been demonstrated, and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have prepared a proposal for amendments. In the current system, it decided on the eligibility of personal assistance and to what extent 110 assessors will be carried out with the user. These evaluators were often unprofessional, had only a short two-day education, and users knew with the answers they had to say that they were eligible for a personal assistant. According to the new report, the eligibility of personal assistance will be assessed by more qualified experts within the framework of the Social Protection Institute. These will also re-examine the need for personal assistance for all beneficiaries in three years. According to the new report, operators of personal assistance from the humanitarian and disability organisations and institutions and societies acting in the public interest in the field of disability or social protection will be involved. In the case of personal assistants, personal assistants will be able to carry out their work on the basis of a contract of employment or as self-employed individuals, but not more than 40 hours per week. On the basis of the agreement, and as a temporary or occasional work of students, students and pensioners, it will only be possible to replace regular employed personal assistants, up to 720 hours per calendar year. A maximum of 2 family members of the user will be able to perform the work of a personal assistant. The news is that the personal assistance provider must have at least 10 users. All contractors will have to have an employed professional leader and larger contractors will also have to have a coordinator of personal assistance. However, in order to avoid the abuse that is taking place, to ensure that care is provided twice at the same time, personal assistance will be excluded through institutional protection, family assistant, long-term hospital treatment, institutional protection under the rules governing school legislation, social inclusion by supporting and putting an end to prison sentences. However, it will not be excluded by the home aid service and the right to manage, protect and work under special conditions, but the approved hours of personal assistance will be reduced by the number of hours of other services granted. The same applies to hours when the user of personal assistance is involved in the implementation of the educational programme so that the hours do not double. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by amendments to the Personal Assistance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present! The implementation of personal assistance has been under the care of both users and politicians for several years now, and we both agree that certain changes are still necessary, since, as in a number of other laws, shortcomings in implementation in practice have been demonstrated in time when the law has been able to live and show some bad pay or anomaly. First of all, it must be pointed out, which is what the bill's own proponent stresses that the exercise of personal assistance cannot in any way be profit-making. This principle has created quite a few solutions in the novel under consideration. Personal assistance will continue to be provided by humanitarian and disability organisations with acquired status, and institutions and societies will have to acquire a status of action in the public interest in the field of disability or social protection. In order to ensure quality in the exercise of personal assistance and to exclude personal assistance by earning profits, the work burdens of personal assistants who carry out their work as independent entrepreneurs shall be limited to hours as applicable for employees under the law governing working relationships. Under the agreement or under the temporary or occasional work of students and students, personal assistants will only be able to replace regular staff assistants for up to 720 hours a year. The same applies to pensioners who will only be able to replace a personal assistant in the framework of temporary and temporary work in accordance with the Labour Market Regulation Act. There is also a need for new experience or specific knowledge in the field of the exercise of personal assistance from providers of personal assistance. They will have to implement the service for at least 10 users and will also have to hire a professional leader. As experience has shown that the expert committee did not have the same evaluation criteria, the amendment provides for a reassessment of users already entitled to personal assistance. The proposal also provides for a new expert body. This will be established within the framework of the Social Protection Institute. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we also welcome the solution concerning the number of family members who are able to exercise personal assistance, since in accordance with the new proposal, the personal assistants will be able to no more than two family members. Some have expressed concerns about this solution because they feel that family members are less suitable for personal assistants because they do not support the user’s independence. This is where we need to keep in mind what a personal assistant is. Pursuant to the current definition, personal assistance is defined as assistance to the user in all those tasks and activities that the user cannot carry out on his own because of the type and degree of disability, but he needs them at home and outside every day in order to be independent, active and equally involved in society. We believe that sometimes the concern of family members for the health and well-being of the user can collide with the definition of personal assistance, but it is crucial that the user remains satisfied with the choice of an assistant and that he is guaranteed the maximum degree of autonomy to achieve the status of an equal member of our society. Personal assistants are not all the same as family members, but they must all seek a common denominator, which is reflected in the definition of personal assistance and the related provision of equal opportunities for users, and the achievement of legal standards. The new Law on Personal Assistance foresees some other news, we have only highlighted the key. We consider everything to be good and appropriate, but with some additions we could improve them, but a few more talks below in the debate on the amendments tabled. Today, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Personal Assistance Act of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! Good two years after the introduction of the original Personal Assistance Act, there is a novel in front of us with which the Government wants to correct the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the Personal Assistance Act so far. In line with the novelty of personal assistance, individual entrepreneurs will no longer be able to carry out solely humanitarian organisations and disability organisations with acquired status and institutions and societies with acquired public interest status in the field of disability or social protection. The law will also require new operators to have some experience in the field of the exercise of personal assistance. The proposal provides for a reassessment for users who are already entitled to the right to personal assistance as it turns out that the expert commissions have not been assessed according to uniform criteria. After all, budgetary expenditure has increased more than ten times, although much less has been foreseen. One of the innovations is also the limitation of the number of family members who can exercise personal assistance to two family members. In this regard, the position of users was expressed in the discussion on the working body in order to make it better for family members not to be personal assistants, since this is not in the direction of ensuring the independent life of persons with disabilities. Personal assistance is not a social correction, but a human right. Therefore, the parent, who is also the legal representative, cannot be a personal assistant or a personal assistant at the same time, since it is a conflict of interests in which the user is often a prisoner of the interests of parents and families. However, the main objective of personal assistance is to enable the recipient to be independent and active. We believe, too, that one of the key areas of personal assistance, which is likely to be changed in the future, is the definition of possible providers of personal assistance by family members. However, I must also draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which considers that the proposal of the law introduces solutions in inappropriate places, which means that the proposed solutions by introducing the existing articles are not related and do not belong to the law but are linked to other articles of the law. This creates a lack of clarity, unsystematicity and reduces the transparency of legislation and thus legal certainty. At the same time, the bill in some places also changes the concept of personal assistance, both with regard to changes in operators, professional commissions and the role of the Institute for Social Protection. Despite the individual amendments adopted, these shortcomings have not been addressed. In the SAB Group, we believe that the bill is a step in the right direction, as changes in the implementation of personal assistance are necessary, so we will not oppose the adoption of the law; however, in view of all the criticisms and shortcomings expressed, we will abstain from voting on the adoption of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, everyone, have a good day! In 2017, as legislators and as a society, we made an important move in the implementation of the right to personal assistance as a means of achieving an independent and quality life for individuals with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities. Although the law has been in force since 2019, it has been sufficient for three years to establish the first deficiencies and anomalies of the arrangements in force requiring appropriate additions and corrections. They are, in fact, pointed out by all key stakeholders involved in the exercise of the right to personal assistance. Although changes in marriage should have taken place sooner, it is better late than never. The key red thread of this time change and complementing is the elimination of the current law's anomalies, the provision of greater quality and more than the necessary control over the exercise of personal assistance, and at the same time the greater independence and autonomy of users of personal assistance. We agree with the proposed solutions, because since 2019, when the law began to apply, his spirit has been lost and a number of abuses have been taking place. The fact is that the exercise of personal assistance has in a sense become a family business, rather than leading to the possibility of user autonomy. It is therefore right and only reasonable that personal assistance is carried out as a non-profit activity and that self-declared entrepreneurs withdraw as its potential contractors. Restrictions are also imposed under clearer conditions for training operators and for the employment of the professional manager. So far, the professional commissions have not assessed the need for personal assistance according to uniform criteria and a reassessment is also envisaged for users who are already entitled to the right. Following the new entry, only those that will be implemented for at least ten users will be allowed to enter the assistance providers' register. In our opinion, however, one of the most important novelties of the proposed law is the rule that the number of family members who may be personal assistants should be limited to two. The idea of independent life underlines that disabled people are able to manage their lives, to have the right to choose support and the right to live in a community. If someone chooses a life in a department because they don't know another one or not available, that's not a choice. The same is true if he lives at home and is cared for by his family. Therefore, a personal assistant is an institution for ensuring the independence of its users and cannot be primarily designed to address the social situation of the family. The possibility of a relative becoming a personal assistant does not extend the premises of freedom to the user, but return to the framework of the family institution. Of course, the help and support of the family is important, but it is not the material gain of other family members, but most of all, it is the loss of those who urgently need personal assistance — users. It is therefore extremely important that the law will further promote the philosophy of independent life in the future, without becoming another of those legislative frameworks that reproduce the patronage system of social protection. Since the proposed law strengthens transparency and supervision of implementation, improves the quality of personal assistance and enhances the independence of users, we will support the unconnected Members of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u104	Once again a nice greeting to all present, especially you, President, and of course to the representatives of the Government! Today it is becoming too self-evident and increasingly difficult to put ourselves in the role and tribulation of others. You usually only know the meaning of something when you don't have it anymore. To be honest, I can't imagine what my life would be like if I was completely dependent on someone else. I hope I never feel it on my own. It would be a lie to be as smart as some to understand what is needed by those to whom the Personal Assistance Act applies. I can honestly say that I have no idea and that I admire them that they still have so much energy and the will to live. But some things somehow don't leave me alone. The law applies to 2 000 475 users, many of whom have participated in the formation of this bill on their behalf. But a large part of these organizations feel that they have not been heard. I understand that everything could not be taken into account, but it's getting away from me. At the same time, I can't get past 40 hours a week. I don't know who the job is, whether it's an assistant or a user, because relationships are much more complicated and it's not possible to bother them for hours. If I also stop by saying that independent entrepreneurs will no longer be able to obtain the status of a personal assistance provider and that the latter is intended only for humanitarian organisations and disability organisations with acquired status and the institution and society with acquired status in the public interest, I wonder at the same time whether everything is not just turning into a good business. I don't know if it's clear that some family members have opened up their espas to carry out their personal assistance because there was no other way. But since there's less of them, it probably doesn't matter, does it? I also do not understand why a reassessment is envisaged for users who are already entitled to the right to personal assistance. I understand that it has turned out that the expert commissions have not assessed according to uniform criteria, but why must everyone go through the whole process?Oh, my God! For me, it's just a grading of a man who's already been so wounded and marked. I also do not understand why, despite the aspirations of the organisations representing the beneficiary of the assistance, two family members who can exercise their assistance have maintained themselves. If I am not mistaken, it has been repeatedly warned that abuse is taking place within families and that children are confined to their homes instead of being left behind and given freedom. I believe that there was a tendency to resolve the shortcomings of the law as quickly as possible, but this has opened a number of new questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that again. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the implementation of the Personal Assistance Act, adopted years ago by the National Assembly, it has been found in practice that in the law some of the content that is urgently needed to be improved or otherwise defined; all with the aim of making personal assistance even better for its users. Only after personal assistance was put into practice has it been shown that the law is too general to define certain parts of the law, resulting in ambiguity and also an irregularity in the implementation of this institution. Let me just list some. First of all, training of personal assistance stakeholders is insufficient. With the novelty of the law that we have before us today, this is regulated. We have unified the way and the training providers. Secondly, the practice has shown that the replacement of employed personal assistants has been inadequately adjusted. With the amendment of the law, this is regulated in a way that will be possible under a civil law contract, either under a contract of engagement or as a temporary or occasional work of students and students and pensioners, but mostly at 720 hours per year. Thirdly, the list of members of the expert committees on the assessment of the right to personal assistance has also proved to be too extensive through practice, and the final opinions on the same needs of the beneficiaries are several times different, so we are professionalising the expert committee as an expert body with the amendment of the law. The members of the professional commission will thus be employed at the Institute for Social Protection and the training of members of the professional commissions is entrusted to the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, the current law also does not provide for sufficiently precise conditions for obtaining the status of an operator of personal assistance. With the amendment of the law that we have before us today, we clearly define the conditions both for granting personal assistance and for withdrawing the status of an assistant. The personal assistance provider will thus have to perform a new personal assistance exercise for at least 10 users. However, the personal assistance provider must also have an employed professional leader, who is therefore responsible for the quality and professional performance of personal assistance. However, any major contractor will also have to have an employee coordinator of personal assistance if his personal assistants are to spend at least 6 000 960 hours with him. To make this more plastic, this means the work of about 40 personal assistants who are employed full-time. Because of many still open content and due to the shortcomings mentioned in the current law, we now have before us the amendment to the Personal Assistance Act, which further improves personal assistance for all those who need it and use it. I'm sure the amendment of the law brings good solutions and somehow tries to get closer to the users. The quality of the implementation of personal assistance is the aim of the new law and we want to ensure through it that all those targeted, as active as possible, in education and in society. Therefore, with the amendment of the law, we want to achieve the activity of users of personal assistance, and we want to achieve, not least, the equality of users of personal assistance as well as autonomy to the greatest extent possible. Of course, it should be stressed that all users of personal assistance are not the same, so the amendment of the law provides for free choice. More on some of the issues related to the amendment of the Personal Assistance Act, then in the debate of Members and Members. Otherwise, let me say that we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm guessing he does. I'm going to set up an application for the list of discussers. The application shall be made. Please report to anyone you intend to discuss. The first one has the word Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In fact, I am sad that we are considering the Personal Assistance Act in the way we are dealing with it. First, to deal with it following a reduced procedure, and secondly to deal with it within the week when we will also deal with long-term care. We all know that in reality we all expected to deal with long - term care only next month or another month later, but since some of the laws were concluded earlier, in fact, we quickly received the long - term care law. Why am I connecting these two marriages? Since it is easy, if the rule was in force, that citizens forget very quickly after three months what happened, that they cannot even list ministers, I note that the historical memory in Parliament is leaving so quickly and at such a light speed that we no longer know how the Personal Assistance Act was passed when it came to the agenda of the year when the Personal Assistance Act was formed. The fact is that the Law on Personal Assistance was strictly adopted only because for many years a law on long-term care was promised; and it was not and we all thought that personal assistants would be arranged there. Of course, because this was not the case, those who remember in the previous term were taking the so-called YHD action, where they were essentially offering Members a one-day contact with persons in need of personal assistance in order to experience on their own skin or to get one such current insight into what a personal assistant really is or how those persons urgently need such a personal assistant. The then majority coalition is of course – I personally did not agree to such a test, because I think it is crazy that this is the way it comes to marriages, but if, of course, someone personally wanted to see it, why not, I do not oppose it myself – the majority of the time decided that we should speed up and adopt this law on personal assistance, because, in fact, we will be able to help those who urgently need it. The debate took place in the National Assembly and it was more than clear at the time that personal assistance would have to be arranged in long-term care. Why? Because this is the only way we will be able to have an overview of all these services and, finally, financial resources, and also easier to control. What do we have today? Today we have the Personal Assistance Act, which is actually covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and, on the other hand, the long-term care covered by the Ministry of Health. And, of course, they will not be doing the same inspection service, nor will they control these services, where certain services are being covered; in fact, this will not happen at all. While, of course, the basic sense of the Personal Assistance Act was lost. Of course, some talk about independent life, while others mix the concept of assistance and care that a person with disabilities needs, either at present or permanently. And that's the key problem when we talk. Last but not least, we have heard in the presentations today that even some political groups are mixing and looking at the matter of course very wide with personal assistants, which is not. The debate, which took place on the committee itself, I myself have closely followed it and I can say that it has opened up a huge dilemma and has made it more than clear to the Government or the proposer that the matter has not been taken seriously. In particular, because it wants to take this into action with a reduced procedure, in order to implement certain solutions, without giving a completely serious analysis when it comes to the fact that it is damn clear what the long-term care will really deal with and where we will actually look at the mistakes and are already very soon faced with the reform of this law; probably in the next term, immediately after the elections. When we passed the Personal Assistance Act, the analysis was that we would need €9 million for personal assistance, that there are so many users and so on. Soon after, two years, there were already 36 million, today these numbers have flown to the sky and we are talking about that it is more than clear that each one in his own way imagines how this personal assistant is actually going on. It is also interesting that we have more people with the need for personal assistance in Pomour than anywhere else. This is information to me that's worrying about what's going on in Pomure. Are they so regular and so thorough and so well organized? If they are, great, thanks. But I simply do not believe that this is more in Pomur than in Gorenjska, Dolenjska or Primorska. That's fascinating to me. So I am wondering today, because even the discussions that have taken place, the proposals come from a pomur legal person who has actually proposed certain solutions. Moreover, in this proposal we even find that it would be very nice if we were representatives from a particular region; and I have a feeling that we are already writing to someone on the skin this law. That's wrong. This simply goes beyond what is of course important in such matters. In the introduction, I heard a government representative say that they actually listened to actors, that they listened to users what they needed and so on; but interestingly, they only took certain things into account and others did not. I don't know how much that was going on. I don't know what the problem is that he's in such a hurry to do this procedure. In what? Because of the epidemic? Because of the unsettling situation? Excuse me, but the personal assistant has been in place for several years. I am also very precise about the conditions that he is referring to as having to meet inside that he must have that experience for at least four years, but only two years are in place. Explain to me, I just don't understand how you're going to do this. Who's the institute that's going to evaluate competence? How is this knowledge, if this story of personal assistance is very young in the Slovenian space? These are things that are completely inconsequential. I just don't see them with this law. I personally believe that this law should not be adopted today. Not because I do not allow certain things that are proposed to be wrong; but because they leave too open doors and there are too many anomalies that we will have to clean again. But that seems to suit someone, because then in a year or two, when we're getting married again on the table, he's saying that now it's the thing that's running away. Indeed, as much of the campaign approach as this government has in this law, it still has in others, but it is important issues, in fact, incredible. I personally received a call this morning, including from users and performers who use sign language. Following this proposal, these users and contractors will lose their personal assistant status because they will no longer fulfil the condition. I wonder who will now offer this personal assistance under this law to these users? Who? Of course, that's what he's going to say after the new institute. Sorry, they don't have any skills with these people. None. I hope so. They're not even qualified for that. But we very much like to throw something at one organ and then most of the time they have very serious problems there when they figure out what they're going to have to do to actually start doing it. Another episode that's gonna end very badly. Yeah, I think that's the key. One of the colleagues said in her position and praised how Nova Slovenije proposed it and that the law was passed without a vote against it. Of course, because we have reached a certain agreement; and this is crucial for me to settle this issue two years later with long-term care and to settle it in a uniform way. And within this, of course, they have clearly defined what rights, what personal assistants are, what care and assistance are, and what care, what protection is. In short, everything has been very clearly defined. No, no, no. We insist on this, or the government insists that this be regulated by each law individually; and this is it. Who's going to be the judge of how many hours? You know, it reminds me, when it was done years ago, I remember, in 2002, the Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language, I will deliberately set up a parallel because I see that it is very easy for people with disabilities to do so, even when someone who does not have these needs determines how many hours someone needs. At that time, we determined by law that deaf persons belong to the month of 30 hours of interpretation with sheep and a student for 100 hours. How they got these numbers, I don't know. To this day, I don't have any serious indicators, any analysis or anything, I don't have. But something similar is now looking here — 40 and 70 hours. How did you get that 40 and 70 hours, I think it's a week? On what grounds? To be clear, however, if we have spoken before and one of the colleagues has made it very clear in her position that this law still deals with freedom of choice. I'm sorry. When you're out of hours, there's no choice. True, to all those who know how to say it out loud and you will say it — you know, rights are not boundless and have no infinity. But let us make credible rights that will also be useful in life and have a certain meaning. I agree that when rights are covered, they must, of course, be monitored. But once again, personal assistance and a proposal for a law that we will consider tomorrow in the National Assembly, you will see, is amazing. There the rights will be covered so it's pretty bad. But this will be run by two different ministries and two different inspections. How will one for another know who has what, who has what, who has what, who performs what; I do not know it. While we will listen to the beautiful words here that this is all under control and everything under control, but forgive me, we also had 9 million in our budget under control, and it has grown to 36 and more today. I just don't have those answers. Of course, I am also concerned about the Law-Legal Service, which has more than made it clear that this novelity is not the law. But as always – and in this government we are looking at this vehemently – legal form, form is irrelevant. It doesn't matter, because all that matters is the address that something has changed. On 11 pages, the Legal and Legislative Service made comments. Please, where did we come from?Oh, my God! One colleague is incredibly nervous about my debate, she is not verbally expressing herself and she is completely dismayed, but I believe that it is difficult to listen to the criticism of this law. But you're gonna have to face it. Of course, I'm going to say out loud what a lot of people are afraid of. We are ahead of the elections and a lot of people, especially Members and Members who are ahead of the elections, are usually afraid of anything to vote against where the disability problem is being addressed because they think it will harm them. I tell you, I will vote against this law, I will not abstain because it is harmful. And it's not for those who need help, it's for certain ones. Above all, I am more concerned because the law is not written for users, but more for those who do it; and more for them. And that's the mistake of this law. You don't want to see one of these. You believe blindly how well you do. I believe you think you'll settle this issue. No, you'll make it worse. I'll see you in a year when we have to fix this again. But unfortunately, then a lot of people will be expelled from personal assistance. Before I finish this, tell me who and when he already lost his personal assistant because he didn't need it anymore unless he gave it up himself. Do you ever have a decision to take away a person's right to personal assistance? You don't. And that tells you more than plainly that there is no control.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, welcome! We Social Democrats have tabled three amendments to a concrete amendment to the law. Allow me to introduce them to you. The first amendment is to Article 4, as amended by Article 12. This is about asking ourselves all the time how many users or performers one coordinator must be. And with our amendment we follow in truth the proposal of the State Council, which was based on the express support of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and the Association of Distrophysicians of Slovenia, that this limit is 5 thousand 220 hours of personal assistance per month. Let me stress once again, with this proposal, we are following the proposal of the Council of State and representatives of disability organisations. The next amendment to Article 12(4) is an amendment which was also the result of a discussion on a specific committee. The new law makes it mandatory to revise the providers of personal assistance. I support that, and we support that. But it's also a related cost. We quickly calculated, it may not be accurate to create a total cost of around EUR 800,000 for 163 personal assistance providers in Slovenia. And that this cost will not go to the money that is available to help people who are having difficulties, we propose that this total cost be taken over in essence by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in Article 9, you may have noticed that we have changed the article. We have tabled this article on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that it is necessary to define more clearly what we mean by the fact that one member of the Commission must come from a region or a neighbouring region. Because, in our view, it is also better to know regional issues and also specificities, if you want, including the language used, let's say in any Prekmurje or elsewhere, but it's already written in the law. Here we are essentially adding only what was proposed by the Legal and Legislative Service, and this is to add permanent residence. What we are deleting, however, is a request that came from several sides, including the government, and that is that we essentially delete the article that speaks – let me suggest – that when it is assessed, we delete “the permanent or temporary residence of the user of personal assistance” because it is more difficult to verify and in fact does not affect the right. The Social Democrats are asking you to support all the three amendments we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Vojko Starović. I propose that we stick to Article 3 which is under discussion. You have the floor, Comrade Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the rest of them have taken the right to have a little wider debate, and that's the custom. And I'll be relatively short. But it should be stressed that the Institute of Personal Assistance is meant for people who are capable of making decisions but who also need an assistant in their lives to do so. But we expanded when the law was passed, and I wasn't there, even to those who were mentally affected, who couldn't make their own decisions and who couldn't make their own choices. Therefore, when spending ten times more than the projected 8 million on more than 80 million took off, one estimate shows that the law was not invented at the time. And I think that today's law, this novel, when we're changing so many articles, and in fact we would need something completely new, because tomorrow we're considering a law on long-term care that would define these issues, what kind of assistance, how it goes. In this marriage, we still do not know what this personal assistant is meant for. As in tomorrow’s law, we do not know what this aid and service allowance is, which is abolished in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is an insurance institution and has been granted rights on the basis of some of its work and payments. I think tomorrow's law is where it should be regulated. And although this law is going in the right direction, I agree, it is going in the right direction, but it brings some solutions that are once again unthinkable and will cause us problems again. Although we will not oppose the law, as I said, we cannot support it, because we are introducing new and new problems; and this is happening to us all the time. And things are falling before the Constitutional Court because you can't trade more than a third of the articles in the law for a new law. In fact, I will use a rather harsh matter – and that is also the assessment of our legal and legal service – to make it a crumbling matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. If I'm sick and tired of anything, it's that I can't support these kinds of marriages. This is the worst thing for me that I really care about, as a socialist, I am interested in how to ensure equal opportunities for people, let's say vulnerable groups or workers in society. Unfortunately, as you have heard, first and foremost, this law does not actually meet the business conditions, because in reality it is not a minor, minor change that is tried to be interpreted, but rather a serious intervention in legal matter. We have seen that in one such bizarre way, some content has been combined, pushed into one article, so as not to exceed that quota, I don't know what, 30 percent, which would require a new, special law to be written down. Therefore, of course, it is logical that the Law-Legal Service has so many problems with this law, so many legitimate comments. And that's something that's not just like that. And I really don't understand why so much of such important things, with such noble goals, because I don't contest those goals, not at all. The goals are right, and the direction could be right, but the performance is, to put it mildly, catastrophic. Because, of course, I can't resist this marriage either, because I'm going to have to abstain, which, as I'm told, I'm very sorry. Because if anything, I wish such laws were prepared so that I could support them in peace of mind, regardless of who the proposer is. This law is not, however, obviously going to be adopted today, because, in most cases, we will have abstained from all these comments; we have prepared two amendments to Article 3 in Levica to try to correct at least a few key issues or some anomaly. The first version of our amendment is broader, and if it is not adopted wider, then I appeal that it be adopted at least more narrower. And I'm going to start with this bigger one, and I'm going to explain what's even narrower. With this amendment, we address two issues. One is that we want to prevent the further misappropriation of personal assistants or the possibility that these assistants continue to be employed through the Institute of Independent Entrepreneurs and through student services or business contracts. Because the biggest problem with this law is, in our opinion, the liberalisation and overstatement of the area of personal assistance and thus the exposure of workers and workers to dangerous forms of work. In principle, personal assistants are not employed on the basis of a contract of employment and as such do not have the rights of workers. And there is no reason, of course, that in such a difficult profession, in such an emotionally and physically demanding profession, these personal assistants should be understood as some entrepreneurs, but it is necessary to ensure that these people are entitled to all the rights arising from work, i.e. working rights such as protection against dismissal, leave, minimum wage, regression, normal hospital and so on, in short, all that under labour law belongs to other workers and workers. Unfortunately, this current and proposed regulation is even in direct contravention of the Labour Relations Act and, of course, simply the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs cannot afford it. I've been explaining this for the last time. And that's why we want this anomaly to go absolutely. And so our first version of the amendment as the second version of the amendment essentially refers to this problem. And I'm going to explain a little bit more about what it's all about. This arrangement, which you are proposing, continues to enable, even encourages, not only makes it possible, but even encourages the overrepresentation of the entire profession; and, of course, it is also extremely problematic from a legal point of view. The Labour Relations Act provides clearly and decisively that work should be carried out on the basis of a contract of employment in the presence of elements of a working relationship, independent of the will of persons. And look, by replacing a 40-hour worker for personal assistants who do not work on the basis of a contract of employment, and by the fact that, in relation to an operator and a personal assistant, all elements of the working relationship are usually present, the law actually encourages illegal practices of forced self-employment and concealing the actual working relationships if you do not accept our amendment. I don't think the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs can afford anything like this. That is why I am really calling for this matter to be rectified by common will and to support this amendment. These practices have proved to be extremely harmful for workers and workers, as well as for the wider field of work and social security. That's evidentiaryly poor. Since the work of a personal assistant is of course not an informal work, but is a serious profession in the field of custody, we believe that workers and workers who do so must enjoy the relevant labour rights. Therefore, we propose that personal assistants be employed by operators on the basis of a contract of employment. For the short-term replacement of these regular assistants when there is a drop-out and to ensure the continuity of the offer of personal assistance to the user, we propose that during the replacement period the work may also be carried out by assistants who are employed through the Institute of Student Work and the temporary work of pensioners; and of course all of this under a certain business contract. Now we are touching another matter that seems to us to be an inappropriate solution, and with our amendment in fact, we want to bring the law back to that, as your proposal went forward at the beginning. The amendment proposes that the personal assistance of users can be performed by a maximum of one family member. That was your original idea. And I don't know why you turned it into two members. Why do we propose to return to one member? The fact is that there is a conflict of interest, whether we hear it or not, between providing income to a family and the needs of a user or user. This somehow leads to a multi-layered problem in the ability of family members to ensure personal and emotional autonomy of the user and user. I'm not saying that there are so many strange practices like that. I do not say that someone will not get it wrong, but the law must be such that it allows, for the first time – and I will touch it later – even the independent life of users and users; not just some accompanying assistance for these things. And, of course, it's not the best place for family members to be involved. Nor is it the best thing for families to eventually really be crucified during the use of a personal assistant institute to resolve financial distress, such as family, or during the use of this institution for the benefit of users and users. This must be strictly demarcated, and therefore we suggest and believe that your first idea you launched was the right one. And that is why I urge you to return to your original idea, which you have proposed at first. Once again, independent life. In addition to the above-mentioned conflict, personal assistants do not actually perform, in principle they should carry out not only accompanying activities, but also services which are beyond this and which, of course, interfere with the individual and individual's intimate nature. You need to have a personal assistant, an assistant with whom you can build some trust, some confidentiality, say friendship, some deep connection that's not the default, because it's your family member. But it's someone, some person, a third person you trust; and it's actually really very important because proven influences, so if you have some personal assistant who's not inside your family, your socialization, that's how socialization of the user, the quality of life of users, users, gets stronger. And that's really crucial. After all, family dynamics are facilitated in these families. In short, family members in terms of socialisation, development of autonomy, parental independence, emotional and sexual maturation are not the best choice for a personal assistant. I would stress that a special relationship needs to develop between a user and a personal assistant, which is difficult to develop when someone by definition from your family is this personal assistant of yours. This is the best — the third person you trust to establish this relationship with. That is why I really urge you to listen, because these are really important aspects of the lives of users and users. And if we really want the best and the good for them, then I really urge you to listen to it and allow and support this amendment of ours. But if you think you are insisting on these two family members, which I'm sorry if you're going to do this, then here we have a variation of the amendment to Article 3, which only goes to the first part that I've addressed, it's true to abolish the overrepresentation of the profession of personal assistant and thus the full employment of these personal assistants. But once again, I don't think we're going to, I'm not going to say completely, because unfortunately the law has a bunch of things that aren't right, but in two important segments we're going to go in the direction that we should actually go. I urge you to support our amendments, our first amendment; if not, at least the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Now I have listened carefully to these preliminary discussions by my opposition colleagues. However, unlike these discussions, I must say that I am personally pleased to discuss today's amendment to the Personal Assistance Act, because I believe that the basic intention of this Act is to further determine the quality of the provision of personal assistance services. When we passed the Personal Assistance Act in this National Assembly years ago, everyone said in a row, and not talking about Members, but about users of personal assistance, that it was an extraordinary acquisition for everyone who needed it. It's an extraordinary acquisition. At that time we were united and found that this must be accepted; and I am glad that this chapter was done. The opposition MPs somehow have much to say today through the amendment of the Personal Assistance Act, but on the other hand, there are many users who say exactly the opposite, so that they support the amendment of the law and at the same time clearly state that they are aware that the novelity of the law is not ideal – it is not ideal. However, it goes in the direction of improving the state of personal assistance, i.e. to eliminate those anomalies that have been shown through practice in these years since the law was passed; and this is the essence of the novel Law on Personal Assistance. Since no one has mentioned this, I must say that those who accompany us will have a little idea of how close personal assistants are at the moment. If we look at the latest data for August 2021, 193 personal assistants performed personal assistance, which means that about 6,000 personal assistants cared for 3 000 users of personal assistance. Of course, practice has shown that some things need to be changed. And it was you, so these 6,000 personal assistants, who were the basis for today's improvement, not optimizing, not saying anything, I am aware of the shortcomings that are within, I believe that the ministry is also aware of these shortcomings. However, to say that this is a step backwards or that it is better not to accept it is not the right way. I think it is right that we support these things, which, however, are intended to improve the quality of personal assistance today. I said before, there is much debate on the opposition side that the novel is not good enough and so on, but look, the amendment of the law is supported by the National Council of Disabled Organizations. So the National Council, which is very well aware of the problems of its users and who knows and monitors very well what is necessary and specifically needs to be changed within both the Personal Assistance Act and other laws that touch persons with disabilities. They said that personal assistance should continue to be maintained and upgraded as it contributes to the independence of persons with disabilities. And I fully agree with that, and I think we're going this way. As we say, however, there are things that we will most likely have to fix. I believe that it would have been better if the marriage were complete, for the first time that we had adopted it, to make it completely optimal. I'll sign it right away, and I'm up for it. But you know, it's only in practice that some things have to be improved. The Society of Distrophysics of Slovenia also supports the amendment of the Law on Personal Assistance. They say that a great contribution is made to the disabled and to the Slovenian society. Also the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. They say that this is a step towards a professionally supported and financially sustainable system of personal assistance and therefore support the amendment of the law. Also the Personal Assistance Union. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Personal Assistance Union made it clear that this is the right step in the right direction and that some issues are still open. And we will also, of course, have to start to save them, and I hope we will. But for now, we're heading in the right direction. Finally, the law supports the National Council, as well as the Labour Committee, we have made some good solutions, including some amendments that we have aligned with both the coalition parliamentary groups and the opposition SD. I have already said that the Personal Assistance Act is therefore intended to make such conditions that those who need personal assistance can be more actively involved in the work so that they can become more active in education in order to be more active in society. We certainly want to achieve greater autonomy by the law for users of personal assistance, without question that we want to achieve equality as well as increased activity. But we can do this to some extent. Not all users are equal, it is said that we must also sometimes weigh and look at the specific circumstances of what someone needs. That is why there are professional commissions operating in this context. Every individual needs to be looked at. I know this amendment they're proposing in Levica, and I have to say that the fact is that a personal assistant can't be anyone. I agree with that. It must be a person who listens to the user who listens to him, not least spends a very long day with him, helping him with tasks that he himself cannot do. I agree, and that is why he must have a person who trusts him, trusts him, who can finally tell him things that he would not tell any other or family members. However, there are also some differences. It is now stipulated in the law that the number of family members performing personal assistance may be two family members, but we need to know, which you did not say in the opposition, before there were more than five. And it turns out, I can't confirm it because I haven't dealt with it, but it's probably the inspection that's responsible for it that there's been some kind of irregularity. However, I stress that if there has been an irregularity, then there is a need for supervision. Control. Control has to do this, not the law. I believe that the optimal solution that we have somehow reached is that we have preserved two family members who can be a personal assistant, but once again, I stress that he has to exercise his control here. I understand that there are differences of opinion here, because that's why we're here to talk to them, and if you listen well, you can see that it was a compromise. If there were more than five family members, today the law provides for two. And I agree that the purpose of personal assistance is independent life, that is absolutely true, but, on the other hand, I have already mentioned in my position, there is also a need for free choice of users of personal assistance to choose a personal assistant who, in my opinion, should not be restricted. I think we're still taking some steps in the right direction. I would, however, like not only in this law, but also in the stack of other laws coming into the National Assembly, no matter which government is now in power, so that, of course, the laws, the first time we have them, are more compact and would not then be amended or amended, some times and so on. But I am aware that this is also the reality of life and that you can change some things for the better only when you see whether they actually work or do not work in practice. And from this it was here that the law, whose purpose is extremely noble, was extremely noble; but at the same time, the users themselves say that it was a law that was an extraordinary acquisition for them, so that this law we are trying to improve further on the basis of what has been shown in practice. We will, of course, support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, I also understand some of the concerns of the disability organisations that come from their experience, and I think they need to be heard, and I think we are doing so. Even on the work committee I am leading, I think we will really give all the spectrum an opportunity to express their views on all of the things we are dealing with; and that we are also a committee that very often reaches a consensus within, so that we can also set an example for the good things to be supported. I understand the concerns, once again, but I think that at this point we wanted this amendment of the law only well to improve the quality of users of personal assistance. That's how much I'd like for now. However, if I continue to see if there will be any further debate on some of the amendments below, I will, of course, apply for the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are in the process of addressing the amendments. To the third article of the supplemented Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Assistance Act, the Left Party has tabled two amendments. Before I define myself to these amendments, allow me briefly to set one framework. Let me remind you that a broad public debate has been held on this novel. It's probably not easy to get a lot of comments on the proposals, or whatever we call it, to sort of harmonise it, put it on one denominator in the form of articles in the law. Let me also remind you, when we prepared for the first time in the history of this country the Law on Personal Assistance at the end of 2016 in the New Slovenia Group of Members – we had disabled people before us. Disabled people are an important part of our Slovenian society. Of course, we looked at the assistance of the disabled through the optics of our basic program, which stands on the four pillars. The first is man's dignity and, above all, I would like to underline it. Second freedom, third justice and fourth security. Of course, we also had before us the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in which the States Parties have committed themselves, agreed that "the purpose of this Convention is to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for their inherent dignity. Persons with disabilities are persons with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments, which may be limited in relation to various obstacles, in order to participate fully and effectively in society in the same way as others.” In fact, I have read only Article 1 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Now specifically to the law. The main solutions resulting from the experience of both disabled and beneficiaries of this right, on the other hand, as well as those who are performers of personal assistance, and all of these experiences have in fact directed and in some way demonstrated the need to amend the law. Every marriage is a living thing and thank God that we can detect the shortcomings of laws and then in the National Assembly also correct or optimize the law. This novel specifies the relationship between personal assistance services and other services. Personal assistance services shall be excluded by institutional protection, family assistants, long-term hospital treatment, institutional protection under the rules governing school legislation, social inclusion by supporting and putting an end to imprisonment. However, a personal assistant shall not be excluded by the provision of home aid and the right to manage, protect and work under special conditions, but the approved hours of personal assistance shall be reduced by the number of hours approved for other services. The same applies to the hours when the user of personal assistance is involved in the implementation of the educational programme. Personal assistance providers will be able to provide new humanitarian and disability organisations and institutions and societies acting in the public interest in the field of disability or social protection. And now, specifically, for the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Amendment number 1 to Article 3. It is not clear that work must be carried out in the form of a working relationship if the elements of the working relationship are given, since the Labour Relations Act provides as an additional condition that this is applicable unless otherwise specified by a specific law. If espies were no longer personal assistants, there would probably be a shortage of personal assistants. Espeas often replace or perform fewer hours than full-time jobs, such as 15, 20 hours a week. The possibility that only one family member is a personal assistant is not supported either, as the free choice of the user that we have always put first is also important. So the free choice of a user we must not restrict. Nevertheless, there will no longer be any possibility of a wider family financially linked to the existence of a personal assistant. For these reasons, and even more so, the New Slovenia Group will not support the amendment number 1 to Article 3 proposed by the Levica Group. The second amendment of the Left Group also to Article 3. The fact that work must be carried out in the form of a working relationship if the elements of the working relationship are given does not hold true, because, like amendment number 1 – the Labour Relations Act provides that this applies as an additional condition, unless otherwise specified by a specific law. And if espeii were no longer personal assistants, there would probably be a shortage of personal assistants. This and some other reasons why the NSI Group will not support Amendment No 2 to Article 3 on the proposal of the Levi Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Well, I explained a lot earlier, and colleague Irgle found out that the personal assistant wasn't anyone, very few of them were actually. These are people who are fully committed to doing extremely difficult physical and psychological work. After all, these are very difficult things. And I see no reason that if we have here the legislation of a 40-hour worker that contains all the elements of the working relationship, why not follow this proposal. While we have found a solution, it is entirely possible to employ for a shorter period than full-time. It is essential that we provide these workers and workers with all the rights arising from work with a normal hospital, which is not available in espies for 30 days, regress and so on, in short, what belongs to workers and workers, in particular the safe working environment. I don't understand. If we want to be good in such a sensitive and ultimately noble area, let us keep in mind even the image, including those who offer assistance, and the users who need it bloodyly. And this is really what you're advocating for foreplay, foreplay, which is at odds with basic logic, after all, of a ministry such as the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This is absolutely true, so we are promoting overreach and somehow even forcing ourselves to engage in some kind of covert work relationship. But that's not right. Dear Member, I urge you once again to reconsider your position, to listen and to go against the better solution that we are proposing with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. We have heard in the introduction, including by the Secretary of State, that personal assistants are a major civilizational achievement. I hope we can all agree on that. Although these years of personal assistance have also proved to be a major financial asset. But we probably know why. Since long-term care has not been accepted and unfortunately with this right at its disposal, it also covers other people who somehow do not fit into this personal assistance but rather into long-term care. But I think living alone and independent life is very important for a person. And for independence, for independence, for health, we'd do anything. That is why, in my view, quality of life is first in line with financial provisions. During these three years of implementation of the Personal Assistance Act, it has been shown, as we have already heard, that there are several anomalies and some of them we want to limit today with this amendment of the law. I am not saying that we will improve everything, that everything is in the best order, that I personally agree with everything that is written in this novel, but that politics is just a matter of compromise. If you're up for negotiations, if you're up for compromises, you can make a difference. If you're not, you can only be in the opposition and say what doesn't suit you. That's why I don't really understand the Left, who has already announced in advance that she's not going to support the law and that she's not going to support the amendment. Or if we support this amendment, then tell me, because I see you already have a replica, if we support any of these amendments, will you support the law? That's what I want to know before I make a final decision about support. Performing personal assistance, we've all figured out, there can't be any way to make a profit. Here I think we have reached a very high compromise, a very high agreement. Therefore, the possibility of exercising personal assistance is also eliminated, so operators will no longer be able to be espouses. For the time being, according to the law, there is still the possibility of assistants costing espies. Why? There was also a number of justifications by the Ministry. We all know there's a shortage of personal assistants. If we eliminate all of these options via espionage, they will be even harder to obtain because espionage usually covers those hours of personal assistance that are shorter or even easier to jump into sudden replacements. I'm not saying that even in the next novel, when it's being prepared, it can be ruled out. The same compromise had to be reached, or it would be achieved in the case of family members. We've heard, today we have 3, 4, 5; now we've somehow determined a maximum of 2. Some countries, such as England, do not have any, they do not allow it at all. As I say, one compromise has also been accepted here to a maximum of two. Personally, I hope that this will be the case, because now all of a sudden we cannot put this novel on our heads as it has been done so far. Some other things are also good that are required of performers. So some experience, some training, every contractor will not now be able to be a contractor just for his family member, but will then have to have at least 10 users and also register, as I said, not more than espa. I must say that the law itself or this new law brings quite a few corrections, which I think are actually good. And some of you have denied this shorter treatment, this shorter procedure. As my colleague had already said before me, the public debate took place for a month, from the end of December of last year until the end of January of this year, more than 250 comments were received and I must say that much has been taken into account. The working group also worked. However, with regard to what colleague Möderndorfer initially warned and somehow spoke through the institution of Personal Assistant Pomurje, I must say that they as the largest contractor were not even a member of this working group, but of course they made certain comments and some were taken into account. I also hope that some will still be in the amendments, which we have also harmonised together with the opposition and the coalition. Then I'll make a special call to the next amendment. These amendments from the Left, as I said, somehow I have no intention of supporting them; or, as it were said, with regard to family members and also those personal assistants, that the law was going through, that certain compromises should also be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u124	Yes, dear colleague, if you go against our third amendment, we are also willing to reconsider and support the law if our amendment is adopted, because we cannot agree to this in order to promote the overreach of such an important work as the work of a personal assistant. So we insist that this work should be fully recognized. And I don't see what's at stake here. I told you what's at stake if we don't recognize it. If you change your mind and listen to our stand-by argument and support at least that it does not exaggerate this work, then we too will revise our position and support this law as far as possible. You don't have to talk like you condemned us before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There's a word for Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Good day on my side! Personal assistant, we have spoken about it for a long and wide time both on the committee and now in the last hour, but it could only have responded briefly or explained the position of the Left, which was also perhaps the basis for the most controversial debate. The cow's attitude regarding the arrangements for personal assistance in Levica is clear. A central public institution that operates according to certain professional parameters, with clear standards, which ensures professionalism in the management of the area of personal assistance, which has a review of the users who have an examination and who then employs personal assistants. Personal assistants in Slovenia, we have already heard in the debate, there are about 6,000, if I am not mistaken, Slovenian police have only 2 thousand more people. So we would talk about one as much urgently needed and well-organised institutions as, say, at national level, organised police. Then I would also like to join in criticizing that, although it is not at all bad in this law, it may be important to note that it is a bit rude to say so at home. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its position that it is a bit of a constitutionally controversial, unclear, non-systematic proposal and so on. And the question that we did not get an answer to on the committee is why such a rush, why the repression of almost a third of the amended articles, when we could take the time, the professional debate and the matter into account with some reformed law. Now the content, for a little while. The two things we point out in the left-wing group are now clear. One is the legal position of personal assistants if their work, if the circumstances of the work in which they are involved represent full-time workers, entails obligations imposed by other employment, in Levica we defend the claim that this work and this arrangement must also bring the other side, i.e. benefits or anything that comes from legal definitions for normal work, i.e. regulated sick leave, regress and so on. If the work shows all signs of a working relationship, then it must be regulated as a working relationship. And then another response to this debate on the subject of the amendment on a maximum of one family member who can perform the work of a personal assistant. Our amendment or our call is basically a call from civil society, a call from users and users themselves. This position comes from the title of the Society of Distrophysics, this position comes from the culture of hedikepa and other institutions that live in personal assistance on the ground, and of course it needs to be regulated. On the one hand, so as not to be abused by the Institute of Personal Assistance itself in some way to regulate the financial situation of the family, to the detriment of the service to the user. Therefore, also on my part, honourable Members and Members, an invitation or invitation to support the amendments. In the final stage, I think that this is a super-stranding issue that we need to solve in a way that will be good for operators, that is, for organisations, that it will be good for personal assistants and that it will be good for users and users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the two amendments tabled by the Left Group? Nobody wants any more, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mojca Znidaric checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I'll be very short. I must say that I will also support this first amendment of the SD Group. Actually, it's a clock increase. I can also say that we have somehow reconciled it, the entire coalition with the Ministry, because in fact, these hours have already been the first to be proposed by the State Council. The National Council itself has proposed an increase in hours, including many performers; and it is appropriate to listen to them, because if they themselves say they do not need as many co-ordinators as were envisaged in the law itself, so that they do not need so many people in offices, but rather, normally, in the field. It's even more rational, and I really don't see any reason why not. We will also support this amendment in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law on debirocratisation within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr. Katji Triller Vrtovec, State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on debarcation, which represents the first legislative package on the way to reducing the administrative and regulatory burden in public administration and improving the efficiency of its business. Government efforts to improve the regulatory environment and consequently improve Slovenia's global competitiveness are not new. In this direction, governments have been working for almost a decade, but this time debirocraticism is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty as a basic guide. For the first time, it is also being sought by means of a package way of dealing with simple legislative proposals that do not require systematic changes. For this purpose, last spring the Strategic Council for Debarcation, led by the President of Mag, was established. Ivan Simich. The Strategic Council has set up three working groups in the field of taxes, economics and the environment. They shall be attended by representatives of economic associations, associations of local communities, academic spheres, IT and other experts. We've received a lot of suggestions. Some are already included in this package, but they are still waiting for the next packages. The aim of the bill is thus to facilitate accessibility to public services and to eliminate the many unnecessary administrative burdens imposed by the State on citizens and citizens, economic operators, experts, sports coaches, farmers, cultural workers, officials and municipalities in their operations with the State. To this end, in the first part of the proposal, the law amends and complements 14 different laws covering the areas of the register of the population, general administrative and tax procedure, sport, agrarian communities, culture, judicial experts, interpreters and valuers, integrity, public servants and nature conservation. Another valid reason for the Government to adopt and propose to the National Assembly a proposal for a law is the international indicators. These show that Slovenia does not exploit all its potential according to the Global Competitiveness Index. In some areas, it is even highly sub-average. In 2019, the regulatory burden index took only 126th place from 141 countries. The main starting point of the second part of the bill is therefore to strengthen the rule of law by reducing the regulatory burden. To this end, more than 200 laws are repealed and mechanisms are in place to prevent further accumulation of national rules. We are aware that debirocratisation is not a process that can be completed overnight and with only one roof law. However, the first urgent stage is to identify the clear time limits and the exact extent of the irregular legal order that contained more than 30,000 legal acts before the establishment of the Strategic Council, with the oldest of 1946. The proposed law provides a legal basis for the establishment of an official register which will allow easy access and a clear review of the official texts of the State rules binding on the individual at the chosen time. I should like to conclude by thanking you for your assistance in drafting the draft law on debarcation to the President of the Strategic Debarcation Council, which unfortunately does not allow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to participate in the general debate; however, he will participate in the discussion at the meeting of the home working body. I would also like to thank the members of the Strategic Council, the working groups and all the ministries and government services that have contributed their proposals and made it possible for us to have a bill on the table today. I also thank the economic associations that have sent a letter of support and the associations of local communities offering a deadline for further cooperation. Dear Members, we have adopted the proposed law in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because we believe that Slovenia urgently needs it for the development breakthrough, so please support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! A good year ago, the President of the Strategic Council for Debarcation presented a proposal for action on a case-by-case basis, in the tax, economic and environmental areas, on the basis of which debarcation would or should be reduced. In March this year, we received a proposal for a law on debirocratisation, which, with amendments and additions, intervened in 20 laws and repealed some more than 200 laws. The proposal for a law on debarcation has already received a number of criticisms in the introduction in order not to be debarced and, among other things, to introduce mandatory reporting to the State if they leave the permanent address for more than 14 days. In some ways, however, the bottom of the proposal for a social hat broke out to the court. Employers supported the proposal, the unions opposed it or opposed it, as they also opposed the adoption of the law, which they had written in the government world for a year. The proposed law on demobilization was also opposed in the congregations. Both within the Community and in the Association, they pointed out that the proposed measures do not constitute a de-de-irocraticisation of public administrations, which is intended to simplify the lives of citizens and businesses. They noted caution in removing administrative barriers and consequently financial burdens. Social Democrats, of course, support the debarcation and decommissioning of public administration and business costs, but we must be careful that all the costs incurred are not passed on to citizens and citizens. Perhaps someone else remembers any attempt to remove administrative obstacles, after which individual administrative tasks have become even more complicated. Just prior to the consideration of the proposed law at the September meeting of the National Assembly, the Government withdrew the proposal from the procedure. It has tabled a new proposal, which no longer includes social hats, card billing obligations and, of course, shortening the time limit for accepting an offer for the sale of agricultural land, forest or farm and so on. She added that the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act was designed to allow the deceased to lie at home in smaller places connected to city cemeteries. But the rest are things that we can't really say are de-de-barcation. Of course, we wonder whether we really need to get into the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Culturers believe that this law should be amended on its own and that other open issues in the field of culture should be addressed. Does double-checking the fulfilment of the conditions of full age and at least secondary vocational education when entering professional workers in sports really pose such a bureaucratic burden that this work or this problem could not be solved in the New Law on Sport?Oh, my God! However, there is still a provision which allows all State Secretaries to sign a decision in individual procedures without a professional examination without adequate education. In doubt, the information officer on the purpose of collecting e-mail addresses and telephone numbers of citizens and the need for such personal data sets, the government replied to the information officer that the basic purpose of collecting contact data from the people of Slovenia is easier and more effective communication of officials with the parties in the proceedings. It is therefore an introduction of easier service, and this concerns only a small part of the Slovenians, according to the information officer. The Government also insists on the gradual establishment of the Government Register of the Republic of Slovenia, where official consolidated texts of national regulations will be published, which will be subject to the principle of confidence in the authenticity of their texts. The establishment of a government register is expected to cost around €800,000. During the time of economic growth and the time of the threat that we will face yet another energy crisis and any other crisis that the people of Slovenia will experience, we will spend more than 800 000 euros on someone and for something; and in the coming cold evenings, the residents will allocate limited resources for basic necessities of life. The government says that the proposal for a law on debarcation follows the objective of strengthening respect for the principle of legal certainty, protection, trust in law, clarity and regulation and strengthening the rule of law. Of course, after nine PKPs and interventions into a few ten laws, after not naming the Delegated Prosecutors, after years of attacks on the judiciary by the largest government party, we can rightly ask ourselves about the seriousness of following up on those targets. Today we will vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, but we cannot support the decision because of all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much and very much! The government of Janez Janša builds its anti-biocratic image on the effectiveness of a well-founded government. Therefore, so is the name of the law, which is why the establishment of an ad hoc working group to accelerate the transition of the country to a digitised and de-de-barcised society; but that it is only a form and not a truth, and the whole way of governance and the content of this law shows us. The main content of this law before us is the so-called social cap. This is a provision that would relieve a few percent of the best paid in the country while at the same time impoverishing the health and pension allowance. This was the main intent of the law, the so-called law on debirocratisation, which, due to general criticism of the public, was eventually withdrawn due to the rejection of such solutions by all, from trade unions, civil society to the State Council. There is now a breach of this law, with some solutions, which the countries will not debirocratize, but only a smoke screen. One such case is, for example, the introduction of a new official register of regulations that is estimated to cost €780,000. Since we already have a similar issue in the form of a portal of the Legal Information System of the Republic of Slovenia, the purpose of the new portal is probably only to provide a new job. And it is not a coincidence that such services are dealt with by the very company associated with Ivan Simic, this is the man who is the main author of this law, and the leader of this project, which you call debirocratisation. 780 thousand euros is quite a bit of money for the service we already have. This is, calculated in salary, a thousand minimum net wages. On the basis of this law, however, there is still a constitutional dispute, a country that is harmful and financially burdensome with the proposal of a law that has nothing to do with debarcation. On the one hand, it interferes with the content of the sectoral laws which are taken care of by the competent ministries and, on the other hand, repeals the rules which are no longer applicable in the Slovenian legal order. In fact, there is one such PKP-law without the PKP-content. You have also made a number of amendments to the PKP laws that have affected dozens of other laws, whether these changes have touched the management of the crown of crisis or not. In doing so, you are at least clear that the management of the crown of the crisis is not touching, but also debirocratisation is not; there is another such mine in the Slovenian legal order that will only create additional confusion. The problem is also the way the law is drawn up. Apparently, the laws are no longer written in the competent ministries, but in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. You have written a law on debarcation without public debate or consultation with experts, we have heard from civil society. The fact that the public is once again excluded is also warned by trade unionists. With the proposal for a law, the government is introducing samples of intervention legislation from the epidemic into legislation, which has no connection with emergency situations, said Jakob Počivavšek, President of Pergamah. In short, if I draw the line, the law that lies ahead of us has nothing to do with debarcation. It's basically one such anti-korona package without anti-korona content. The main purpose of this law was to create a smoke screen for the introduction of the social cap that the right hand has long wanted with us. This is an antisocial measure that would exhaust the social state and increase wages to a few percent of the best paid. But because of the criticism of the public and probably also because you yourself have calculated that for such a measure you cannot get enough votes in this reference to the National Assembly, this main proposal in the law has been withdrawn, and the smoke screen has remained and is here before us. In Levica, of course, we do not support such a way of enacting legislation; real omnibus laws that create only additional confusion in the legal order and rumble under dozens of other laws should be regulated differently; nor do we agree with the solutions in this law that will not bring any debarcation. But a good illustration of this is a portal that will cost us 780,000 euros. Such a portal in Slovenia already exists, what you will achieve is that one more will be established, and the deal will obviously be obtained by the author of this law Ivan Simič. In short, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State Dr. Katja Triller Vrtovec, dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to begin by thanking the Strategic Council for Debarcation, especially the leader of this strategic world of mags. Ivan Simich. For the first time in the history of a single state, we have a law on debarcation on the table. Colleagues and colleagues, we probably all agree that in Slovenia, reducing the regulatory burden and further improving the management of public institutions remains a major challenge, despite improving the efficiency of the country in supporting the business sector and promoting development in many areas. In recent years, economic operators have also highlighted excessive bureaucracy and an under-incentive business environment as one of the biggest obstacles to business, in particular the longevity of certain procedures and the high tax burden of work. Also in the context of the European Semester, the situation in Slovenia in terms of barriers to investment is not assessed as optimal. The European Commission notes that, despite some progress in recent years, investment barriers still exist in many areas and that reducing red tape remains one of the key challenges for promoting investment. Let me point out in this place, colleagues and colleagues, that in New Slovenia we are actually disappointed that in this text of the law on debarcation, which we are dealing with, there is no longer the introduction of the so-called development cap. I think that 17 countries of the European Union have it, so we would not be unique, but, however, if this is the reason that the law will be adopted, that we have removed the development cap, we accept it. However, in New Slovenia we have been thinking and we are convinced that by the end of the mandate there is just enough time to try to establish a development cap or social cap; or to propose to the National Assembly a debate on this. Of course, some people probably do not have heartache that about 15,000 good people, I stress – good staff, move abroad from Slovenia every year. Why, why? We are deeply concerned about this, so we want to make our environment this way, we can call it a business environment, such that it will be attractive for employers, for investors and, of course, for workers. While the business environment has improved, there are still problems with the administrative and regulatory burden. Slovenia has taken steps to gradually reduce administrative burden and regulatory constraints, but both are still hampering business. The regulatory burden in Slovenia is gradually decreasing, but in some areas it is still relatively high. The time needed to pay taxes in Slovenia has decreased slightly, from 245 hours in 2018 to 233 hours in 2019, but is still high compared to the EU average of 172 hours. Companies still believe that often unforeseen changes in legislation in Slovenia are disturbing to the business environment. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises still believe that the administrative burden is high and that it is decreasing too slowly. The overall effectiveness of Slovenia's efforts to reduce the burden is hampered by shortcomings in implementation. Due to strict public administration and meaningless laws and regulations, the Slovenian economy suffers, citizens and citizens suffer. Administrative burdens, i.e. unjustified business disruptions resulting from inadequate rules or their implementation in practice, are too much. The Ministry of Public Administration has estimated years ago that the economy and the state administration have spent about €1.5 billion a year to overcome them. EUR 1.5 billion per year. These costs, however, do not diminish in contrast with our commitments. This also does not include losses resulting from a lower investment of foreign investors in Slovenia and a lower volume of domestic businesses. If we look at the various international scales that measure economic freedom, if we look at the results of a survey of the World Competitiveness Yearbook of the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, we see that Slovenia has positions that cannot honor us. On the other hand, it must motivate us to do something, right here, in this institution, in the National Assembly. By the scales of the International Institute for the Development of Management in Lozana, we are on an annual average of 50th place, this analysis measures about 60 countries, then this cannot be an honor for us. It cannot be an honor for us to be among the 60 observed countries in the 50s. Nevertheless, there are many measurements, many of the current data, while we are still in a serious health crisis, that have an impact on society, the economy and so on. As regards economic growth, for example, as regards the low number of unemployment, we are in the first quarter of the best countries in the European Union. And we could also list, and today this is not the point of the agenda, the international credit rating and so on. The Strategic Council has also worked – and this is what we do in Novi Slovenija, and probably you, colleagues and colleagues – how to increase productivity in our country. This work was carried out by the so-called Marble Group, which produced an action plan for higher productivity growth under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. This is where experts from various fields cooperated, and I can only believe this guidance. And we must worry that productivity in Slovenia is lagging behind average productivity in the Member States of the European Union. It's an environment we like to compare ourselves to. And until here, within the EU, we are the best, then there is no point in messing with the biggest, most important players in the economy in the world. Please allow some information. In 2019, this year, when there was no epidemic, productivity in Slovenia was lower than the average productivity in the European Union, at 81.2% of the EU average. Thus, 19 percentage points were below the average of the European Union in terms of productivity measured at the number of employees, or 83.2% of the productivity of the EU average when looking at productivity measured at the number of working hours. If we compare Slovenia with Austria, which we do many times, we can find that the latter had 43.5% more productivity than Slovenia in 2019. Austria is 43.5% more productive than Slovenia, measured by the gross domestic product per employee indicator. And 52.2% higher productivity, measured by the number of working hours. This is OECD, Eurostat and so on. And we are probably only united here, that if we fail to raise productivity, there is no way that in Slovenia we could expect wages to be higher. It won't work. And as long as such a business environment, which is rather unattractive about taxes, there will be no investors, no domestic or foreign investors. And certainly – again, I expect to have at least a partial agreement – certainly, debirocratisation also helps increase productivity, so that we will not engage in the economy and also, yes, in private life, but above all, I am thinking about the economy, with things that do not bring, which are non-productive, which are obstacles to the developmental bar. [[…]] And this law on demobilization is the first law, the first set of measures to help remove bureaucratic barriers. It is a pity that it is relatively close to the end of the term of office, but the Strategic Council and the Government may also be encouraged to bring another package of measures to the National Assembly that will contribute to de-de-irocratisation. As regards this law and the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, the New Slovenia Group will of course support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. All in attendance have a very nice greeting! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on debarcation, aimed at improving the state of affairs in Slovenia with regard to administrative barriers and better creating a competitive business environment. I personally recognize that this content, despite its different views on this matter, should have been in this national assembly many years ago. The administrative environment is among the key obstacles to the accelerated development of Slovenia in all areas. Complicated and delayed procedures hoard better the benefits of all our potentials, while needlessly burdening the public officials who run these procedures. In the first mandate, the modern centre's client has already worked as a priority to remove administrative barriers and de-de-barcation, as well as to make public authorities more accessible and responsive. Some see problems in a large number of civil servants, but the real problem is ineffective procedures, which, with many steps, practically steal time from both representatives of the public sector and especially from citizens and representatives of the economy. For this reason, we will only reach an administrativeally more prosperous country by rounding up the digitisation of the country, speeding up procedures, eliminating unnecessary duplication of activities and allowing public officials to devote their time to the content of the operation rather than the bureaucratic procedure. Let us mention some of the more important solutions to the proposal for a law on debarcation that is ahead of us. In order to enable the speedier and more efficient operation of officials with individuals, data on mobile numbers and e-mail address are added to the Residence Registration Act and the Central Population Register Act, of course, provided that both data are transmitted voluntarily. In the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is also possible to send notices of a consignment via a text message and the secretaries of the State will be able to sign the decisions in individual procedures instead of the Minister. The Public Servants Act also allows public servants to be served on official e-mail. Finally! These are just a few solutions for simplifying the life and business of citizens and thus contributing to lowering costs and administrative barriers. Of course, with full attention that the services of the state administration are safe, fast and to the satisfaction of citizens and customers in administrative procedures. Slovenia has already taken major steps in the area of integration of records and databases, which has saved users of public services time spent on various administrative procedures. In the Modern Centre Party, we are working towards the digital integration of all national authorities and the rationalisation of all regulations. We are convinced that the basic problem, as mentioned above, is the duplication of staff and that greater transparency of the functioning of the public authorities itself needs to be ensured. We put first the measures and projects that will make it easier for citizens to obtain documents, consents and permits in all the procedures in which they deal with the country. Projects are under way to establish a modern e-Identity that will enable citizens to have an easy digital relationship with national authorities. It will also be an important step for businesses to implement an e-Identity project with all the data in one place, allowing companies to submit reports more easily and to run for or for development funds. These projects will allow citizens, businesses, public servants to deal solely with content and development, but not with so-called late administrative procedures. In the future, special attention will also be paid to the area of accommodation in the space and construction of buildings, where much has already been done with the eSpace project. The continuation of digitisation with the EMOP project will first allow for the full protection of the natural environment, as it will automatically prevent interventions that could actually threaten it. In addition, the digitisation of the area of spatial governance will achieve full transparency and great acceleration of all procedures, as it will eliminate the late repetition of one and the same steps in terms of conditions, consensus and various permits. Digitalisation of space management is one of our key programme priorities, as it is seen as one of the key problems by citizens, especially the economy and various investors. We support today's proposal for a law on debarcation, which is at first reading, in the Joint Meeting of the Modern Centre, and we will continue to seek solutions in the area of the elimination of administrative barriers, so that only life in the framework of civil activities and rights and business operations will be simplified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u140	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Most people in Slovenia are probably united that we have too many regulations and regulations. We are also fast-tracking all the parliamentary groups that Slovenian legislation needs to be rewinded. It is easy to agree that laws are too often too rigid and lifeless, that they are often too clear and transparent and that they often complicate things where they really do not need to be complicated. All of this can be improved by debirocratisation. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language defines this word as the elimination of bureaucracy and bureaucracy is a formal, non-lifeful compliance with regulations, especially with officials. When reading past positions and electoral programmes of parties, both coalition and opposition, we have always learned in the past that we understand the word in a comparable way. Then, in March of this year, we received the law on debirocratisation into our hands and wondered what had happened to our understanding of the basic word and whether we were still talking about the same thing. Even though we received a new text at the end of September, I would still like to touch the original text with a word or two. If we then admitted to some of the solutions contained in the law that they were at least partly part of it, then we wondered how they got into the marriage. The question is not answered, for even the best possible way to find out what solutions should have in common with debirocratisation. One such was proposed, for example, to introduce a social cap, which caused great resentment mainly because it undermines the system of solidarity and interferes with the foundations of social security. Without defining for or against it it is clear that a solution that has such a wide and far-reaching impact on both health care and pensions cannot in any way be included in such a type of law, but requires separate treatment. This is not how serious social and financial issues are resolved. Clearly, this is a mode of operation in which the government has been well absorbed by the design and writing of anti-Korona packages. At that time, we were also able to see in each package solutions that had absolutely nothing to do with the virus and the epidemic. The government has sent both the first and the second proposals for a law on debarcation to the National Assembly without prior social dialogue. It's operating mode again. The same has been done by the government in two extremely important areas that will shape the lives of all of us, in the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund and in the package of amendments to tax legislation. Exclusion of stakeholders who could contribute to professional bases and corrections is unacceptable, but the government has not been able to do so many times, so this is not surprising. However, it is surprising that even the opinion of its own law enforcement service, which, according to some information on the solutions proposed, has had a number of concerns. In the past, the Esdees Members, including at extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, have reminded us of the enormous number of laws and regulations we have in Slovenia. This fact is, of course, impossible to challenge. It is interesting, though, that despite these enormous numbers, and according to their warning numbers, the latter is able to accumulate and increase. This mandate has resulted in the adoption of a total of more than 100 laws and a strong number of sub-legislative acts. Not to mention government decisions to prevent the spread of covida-19 virus, which could not be followed by some legal experts, let alone other citizens and citizens. I have already mentioned that at the end of September we have received a new text of the bill. Why? It's a slip that you wouldn't expect from such old cats. In preparing the law, the government overlooked the need for more than a mere majority to adopt the law. The original proposal also repealed, inter alia, the law for which the adoption and consequently the repeal would require a two-thirds majority in accordance with the Constitution. Since the announcement of the new proposal, we have hoped that it will contain more solutions that will match his name, and that he will simplify the lives of citizens rather than only complicate them in several places, but also seriously harm certain groups, as was the case with the first version. But that didn't happen. While we can be pleased that some questionable solutions have disappeared from the proposal, including the most controversial introduction of the social cap already mentioned. But we're still disappointed. Since the current government has even set up the Strategic Council for Debarcation, any possible change that could be proposed in such a package would be expected to provide solutions that would actually contribute to the smaller shrinking and delaying of procedures. We also find it worrying that the proposed solutions leave us with the establishment of an official register, which would cost almost 800 000 euros to our country and which has already stabbed us in the eye in the original version. This place is an intervention in constitutional matter, as the role of the Official Journal would be significantly reduced. We are also wondering in the SAB how the proposed provision follows the basic purpose of the law, since it will not help to reduce the number of rules. Simplification of administrative procedures is particularly important for the country due to the consequences it has on the functioning of the economy and the public sector. We are also aware of this in the SAB Group, and therefore our expectations were that the demobilization of one of the key points in the third Janša government would be high. We view the solutions in the law of the SAB Group as reckless, reckless and also inadequate. The few individual solutions that even suit their purpose are far too small. The decision is therefore in hand, and all Members of the SAB Group will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Strategic Council for Debarcation was established last May. The main task of this, with high expectations from the accompanying body, is to review legislation with proposals for the relaxation of bureaucratic shackles. It will therefore be able to simplify the lives of citizens and simplify business operations and thus contribute to reducing costs and removing administrative barriers. Debirocratisation is one of the priorities of the executive branch of the Authority, focusing on electronic commerce and simplification of procedures in construction and spatial legislation and in the field of public procurement. In particular, the effects and advantages of the introduction of digitisation procedures are exposed. Bureaucratism is a system in which formalism and law enforcement prevail. The purpose of the bureaucrat's existence is to indicate the need, to make a flawed improvement and to give an abandoned sentence. Bureaucracy has turned into a profession and a way of life. As a form of self-care, it has become irresistibly effective, and the tasks for which it has been called into existence have confidently pushed on the side track. Bureaucrats in the modern world face more than ever the delusions of their minds, which they do not perceive but believe. Bureaucratation is the source of individuality, innovation and flexibility. It's enough for itself. It shows its special interest as a common and general one. Debirocratisation should therefore represent the abolition of such a system, such a way of governing it and a proposal for a law should therefore include only dry proposals to eliminate bureaucracy without any specific additions. Even though the proposal for a law tabled by the Government towards the end of March this year mainly contained solutions to reduce regulatory burdens and improve the management of institutions and the business sector, it was not possible to overlook a proposal that did not fall under the concept of debirocratisation. But I'm talking about the intentional introduction of a social cap. The position of Members of the Desus Group until the introduction of the Social Cap was and is still united. We are categorically against its introduction. At our request, the Government has decided to apply the amended Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows the proposer within the framework of the adoption of the law to replace the text of the bill with a new text. Inequitable, non-solidarity and fiscally harmful social caps are therefore no longer included in the proposal for a law on debarcation. What, though, do we think are the essentials of the bill? Most of the provisions relate to electronic service and the establishment of electronic commerce, which, according to our assessment, cannot possibly be disputed; on the contrary, this is correct. However, it would indicate that more time is needed to discuss and develop suitable solutions to address the problems of digitisation training of older people. We fully support the cessation of the validity of laws and on their basis under-laws, which are no longer applicable. It is 224 laws that have not been applied for years, the oldest among them since the time of the former Yugoslavia even in 1949. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is right for legislation to be cleansed and cleansed of the dead rules, since this will certainly contribute to greater legal certainty and, above all, to more transparent legislation. The possibility of issuing decisions by State secretaries shall be introduced. After that, the existing laws sign the decisions and, of course, the ministers are responsible for the decisions. The proposer explained his proposal, to which we Members of the Desus Group are somewhat detained, and we expect a much more detailed argument in the procedure below. The most important part of the law is the proposal relating to the introduction of a new register where the official consolidated texts of national regulations will be published, which will be subject to the principle of authenticity of their texts or the principle of confidence in the authenticity of their texts. With regard to this proposal, too, Members of the Desus Group are somewhat detained. The proposer did not fully convince us with his arguments for the new regulation register. The cost of its establishment is estimated at EUR 780,000. More importantly, it is something else: the bureaucratic state is intended to be countered by additional administration. In the Republic of Slovenia, all regulations shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The obligation to publish regulations is so important that this is established at constitutional level. Ignorance of the right is really damaging, but it is an urgent legal fiction that individuals know the legal rules. If they are violated and brought against them, they cannot plead that they did not know or that they did not know that they were doing anything wrong. The proposer does not deny or change this, but introduces a new additional legal register. All legal rules are, as we say, published in the Official Journal. Since the beginning of the 1990s, there has also been a register of state regulations containing information on the regulations of the National Assembly, the Government, the ministries and authorities in their composition and government services. All three branches of government are included in the legal and information system of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a publicly accessible and free state portal operated by the Government Legal Service. It includes both acts of the Republic of Slovenia, including jurisprudence, as well as acts of the acquis of the European Union. According to the applicant, the Official Journal is intended to provide only a first notification of changes to the legal order following the chronological order and the official register is intended to provide for permanent access to the applicable legal order, from which it would be easier to see which rules are currently in force. In the Desus Group, we express our restraint regarding these provisions. In our view, unnecessary duplication is not necessary, nor is it appropriate in terms of legal protection. The activity of the new register is to be carried out as an economic public service, and this service is to be carried out by a public undertaking designated by the Government by a regulation. The Association for Pre-Preparation for Future State Synequences in this case is not entirely of vine. Members of the Desus Group have moved from a strong negative point of view, which we have taken with regard to the previous version of the law, which included the social cap, on the basis of a new proposal, to a positive position with those reservations. However, we agree that the proposed proposal for a law on demobilization is a suitable basis for further consideration and that is how we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u144	In March this year, the government recorded in a press release that it had adopted a proposal for a law on de-de-barcation aimed at simplifying the life of citizens and citizens and the business of businesses. It interferes with 20 applicable laws and repeals more than 200 of them. When it comes to removing administrative barriers and establishing a competitive business environment, we will probably not find either a citizen or a business entity, nor a policy that would oppose it at the principal level. But Catch is always hiding in the details of individual proposed solutions and in the process of drafting and coordinating the law. Debirokratisation in Slovenia is one of the main programme directions of the SDS and its political parade horse, as it constantly mentions bureaucratic obstacles and state administrations in its programmes and coalition contracts that make it difficult for the economy, agriculture and citizens. Debirokratisation was one of the key coalition promises of both the other and the third Yanshe government. This time, too, the present bill shows that it is more about a public performance, in which the coalition will argue that the opposition does not understand the problems of people and the economy that are heating up their lives, although the power of the law itself is to understand very quickly that there is a clear gap between political promises and what the law actually brings. Does anyone else remember the promise of the SDS years ago that the government they run will draw up a plan to reduce the number of public sector employees in state jurisdiction by 10 per cent? Well, next month a draft proposal will come to the National Assembly at the budget meeting, together with the changes to the budget for 2022 and the budget for 2023; that is, a proposal for a human resources plan, which provides for around 600 new jobs in the State Administration. It's like that. Otherwise, the government’s proposal or conduct would best be described by saying: a lot of pump for less content. Furthermore, according to our assessment, the law represents an attempt to conceal the actions of this government, which are light years away from what it promises. At the time of this government, in 2020 and 2021, more than 160 draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, of which 127 proposals have already concluded the legislative procedure. In just two years, this government has produced and sent to the National Assembly slightly fewer laws than it has repealed for all 30 years of self-sustainment. In addition, the Government and the competent ministers have adopted several thousand, not a few hundred, several thousand, sub-legislative acts, including all sub-legislative rules to prevent the spread of contagious covid disease or to instill unconstitutional and illegal decisions. This government is therefore fighting bureaucratic obstacles in the way that it replaces obsolete laws from a 30-year period with more than successful ones, increases the number of sub-legislative acts and, despite the appointment of a charterless minister responsible for digitisation, including the digitisation of public administration, employs new public officials to combat bureaucratic obstacles. Then find out who can. It seems to us that the government's intentions to de-mobilise and digitise the state administration have been best won by the author of one of the humorous writings that he estimated that this government has decided to manual digitise, i.e. the digitisation that will be carried out with its own hands by newly employed civil servants. In addition, the preparation and coordination of the law on demobilization has repeated the practice that we have witnessed in all anti-korona packages, from the PKP 1 to the PKP 9 or so-called mega-laws that interfere with other laws, thereby creating confusion or introducing solutions that have nothing in common with the declared objectives, or are even written and framed in order to achieve the partial interests of individual entities or interest groups. It was stuck right at the beginning of the drafting of the law, even before the adoption of the government. As the law was also the result of the work of the Strategic Council for Debarcation, led by Mr Simič, the Government or the Cabinet of the Prime Minister decided to take a closer approach to the State Administration Act. As a result, on 11 March this year the Rules of Procedure of the Government, or the 7th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, were amended to stipulate that the President of the Strategic Council, established by the President of the Government, is also among the authorised candidates for the works adopted by the Government. This, of course, bypassed the Law on State Administration, which clearly and unequivocally sets out who the heads of the administrative authorities of the state of administration are, that is, the ministries which are empowered to draw up and coordinate the proposed rules. Why did the government decide to maneuver? In order to enable them to prepare the bill in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, they initially resisted such a bill under the ministries, because the original version contained more solutions and which had disproportionately interfered with human rights and freedoms and which were clearly contrary to the Constitution. In addition, some of the suggestions of the Simal Council simply did not appear on the spot or were unfulfilled in the proposed way. Not to mention that they were very critical of the proposal in the government's legislative service, where at the end of their opinion on the bill's proposal, "we believe that the idea of implementing this proposal does not comply with the desire for debarcation, but even less so with the objective of a smaller number of adopted rules". Finally, ministries, when some of Simic's proposals fell out of law, were forced to design some of their solutions and thereby to resolve the reputation of both the Debarcation Council and the reputation of the Prime Minister of the Government and of course the SDS parties. I would like to point out to the government coalition that today we are no longer considering the March government proposal for a law that promised to intervene in 20 laws, but that the new text contains only amendments and amendments to 14 laws, and the law no longer repeals the promised 200 laws. As many as five have been removed by the Government from the previous text, namely the Public Procurement Act, the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts, the Law on Social Security Contributions, the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, and the Law on Agricultural Lands, Higher Education, and health activities replaced by the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities. It did not state the reasons for the withdrawal. The public only talked about the withdrawal of the law repealing the Law on voting methods and determining the outcome of the 1996 referendum on the electoral system. Since that law was adopted by a two-thirds majority, it should also be abolished by the same majority. As the government coalition, which, of course, does not have the necessary majority, threatened to drop the law on debirocraticism, it withdrew or replaced it with a new one just before the previous meeting of the National Assembly. The second reason for the withdrawal was probably the amendments to the Social Security Contributions Act, which would provide for the introduction of the highest basis for the payment of social security contributions of EUR 6 000 gross or social security cap. It is probably not too much to point out that the government and the government have not prepared any serious assessment of the financial implications to justify the proposed solution. Instead of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, financial implications were assessed by themselves at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, where they found that the total amount of all contributions to compulsory health insurance or jointly charged the effect of EUR 120 million for both bills. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we therefore do not object to the fact that the social cap has withdrawn from the bill, since we believe from the outset that it does not belong to this law governing debarcation, but belongs to a system law where the system of social security contributions is fully regulated. The limitation of the maximum base for the payment of contributions has nothing to do with de-barcation; the scope of the administrative barriers due to this restriction would be exactly the same as it is now. However, the path of the proposed amendments was completely wrong. This is such an important change that social dialogue through the Economic and Social Council must continue throughout it. This, however, has fallen apart at this point and is likely to take some time for it to be restored. We do not object to the withdrawal of disputed solutions regarding public architectural competitions, which, unfortunately, he viewed as bureaucratic obstacles by part of the government or the ruling coalition. We cannot agree with the intervention in this part. Public architectural competitions are a form of decision-making on urban, architectural and landscape architectural solutions and achieve a higher quality of built space. These are considered only for the most important public investments, such as schools, hospitals, libraries and other public institutions. Nevertheless, we would like to hear from the Government the reasons why they withdrew the five other bills and why they included the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act in the new text. This is exactly what some of us at the time of coordination in the final text objected to. The Funeral and Funeral Activities Act also allows for the possibility that the deceased may be at home until the funeral. So we could reintroduce a practice from the last century, a dead man's lying on the mats at home. This has nothing to do with debarcation. Many, however, know or do not know that the Government wanted to speed up the issuance of payment orders for offences by law. The police could issue a payment order without a statement from the offender and without a description of the offence. The alleged offender could only begin to exercise his right of defence in a court where, on the basis of subsequent statements, the actual situation would begin to be established. You probably don't have to be a great criminal law expert to find out that in this case it wasn't about removing bureaucratic barriers to ordinary people as they like to be described in the government coalition, but the Minister of the Interior wanted to facilitate the so-called incassation of the police. This means that the 2003 reform of criminal law would be unnecessary, as this law of criminal procedure would once again move back to the courts. In the domain of similar unacceptable solutions, there was also a proposal whereby a marriage could be concluded only in front of a religious official and would be as valid as if it had been concluded before a parent or an official or a mayor. Some felt that this was an unnecessary administrative and financial burden for the newlyweds. It is probably not too much to point out that the latter solution would extend to a constitutionally defined relationship between religious communities and the state. 7. Article 7 of the Constitution states that the State and the religious communities are separate and Article 53 states that the marriage shall be concluded before the competent national authority. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Just a minute. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree that the abolition of excessive bureaucracy is beneficial and we welcome any decision that simplifies administrative procedures. Unfortunately, however, this government is involved in mega-laws such as this one, including many things that do not belong to it, or does so in the wrong way and without taking account of key stakeholders. In the parliamentary group, we will listen to the call of one of the social partners, so the bill, although some of the most controversial solutions have been excluded for us, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u146	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State and all present in the Chamber! There's been a lot of talk about this step, and now the government has done it, has drafted a law on debarcation. People under the concept of debirocratisation represent much faster procedures, less regulation and less paper use. Debirokratisation, as such, means formalistic, as we have already heard, non-lifeful compliance with prescriptions, in particular with officials. In view of the fact that we have before us a law on debarcation, we would think that it would regulate the area so that citizens would benefit directly from it. This is also the point of public administration, and any official should have this in front of the public eye. The point is that public administration is a public service for people and is not intended for itself. Debarcation in the Slovenian National Party Group would mainly expect officials to be more accessible to citizens in a way that the phone does not ring for hours and hours at a time when the citizen calls and asks for advice or wants a service. The administrative procedures themselves take too long. Most administrative matters are simple, so decisions should be made much faster than they have been before. We are afraid that this law will not speed up the procedures, especially the rapid response of public servants to the concept of debirocratisation. Under the concept of debirocratisation, we also imagine a more favourable public administration in the way that citizens are reminded in the event of a traffic offence service. It is not always a monetary fine that sanctions for an offence that achieves the purpose of punishment, and many times these are pronounced out of revenge. The law also introduces news in the field of service. It is intended to be submitted to an e-mail address after a new one and the notification of the notification of the notification of the notification of the notification of the notification should be received by citizens via a text message. We have our comments at work, and the whole country's territory is not covered by the Internet. There are grey foxes, which means that all citizens do not have access to internet services. This area should be regulated before we regulate the way it's handled by e-mail. We also have more than 20 per cent of citizens over 65 years of age in the Republic of Slovenia, and we fear that they are not all skilled in electronic commerce. We welcome the provision in Article 30, which extends the liability of public servants to the harm caused by gross negligence. This measure is good because it does not always occur intentionally, but often because of negligence, which is much easier to prove after all. This measure will certainly help public servants to make more professional and prudent decisions in the cases allocated. We particularly want a political and responsive public administration that will work for the benefit of citizens. I will also touch on the Strategic Council, which was, as has already been said, established last May. But I'm going to take one example from the projected tax debarcation. I have one example, let's say about DMV – a tax on motor vehicles – so the forecast for a tax on motor vehicles was until recently in one form, A4 format, one sheet, today this is the same form on two sheets; it says here is a little strange. There is no less paper, it is a counterproduct; it is said that there is more paper, more data to be entered and so on. Even these data that are required cannot be fulfilled by a normal person. So much so, everyone has their own view of this law of debirocracy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u148	Nicely greeted. Dear Members, Members, President, Secretary of State! That Slovenia has been very liberal, full of administrative obstacles, it has been known for a long time, despite the fact that since 2004 we have been working through the Sector for the Elimination of Administrative Obstacles of the Ministry of Public Administration in Slovenia in this area. In the course of the day-to-day meeting with citizens, entrepreneurs, representatives of economic associations, farmers are all united in the area of administrative barriers: the barrier is too much, the procedures for obtaining permits and the agreement is under way. Also on a number of competitiveness scales, economic freedom scales Slovenia has poor cities due mainly to excessive regulation, too many regulations and too long procedures. For all the reasons mentioned in the SDS, we have already convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the previous mandate in 2017 and have put forward a number of concrete proposals for de-liberation of the country. Something has not changed much since then, so, of course, in the SDS Group, we welcome the proposal for a law on debarcation, which is before us today. The basic aim of the law is to simplify, simplify the lives of citizens and make it easier for businesses to operate and thus contribute to reducing costs and removing administrative barriers. Only less burdensome legislation will improve the competitiveness of the economy and, of course, consequently, improve the standard of citizens. The law before us is made up of two parts. The first part contains amendments and additions to laws that do not require systematic amendments to legislation, while the second part includes the termination of laws and their non-applicable acts. In Slovenia we have exceptional regulatory density, we have about 6,000 700 laws, of which more than 40 percent are invalid. We have about 45,000 sub-laws, about 38 percent of which are invalid. All of this is extremely imprudent for citizens. On the basis of the existing register of rules, citizens and other entities find it very difficult to determine which rules apply to them. It is also common for the entry into force and entry into force of a law or a sub-law to be different, and it is quite unusual for them to remain in force under the law, even though their legal basis is repealed. Contentual simplifications relate to fourteen laws. I will continue to highlight some of the major changes. In order to enable the speedier and more efficient operation of officials with individuals, data on mobile numbers and e-mail addresses are added in the Residence Registration Act and the Central Population Register Act. Both data will be transmitted voluntarily by the citizen. The service of documents or acts issued by the State Administration shall be simplified, instead of being made by regular mail, by means of an e-mail address which will be linked to a telephone number, provided that the individual decides to do so. It'll be a voluntary choice. However, it means a substantial simplification, since you will no longer have to go to the post office and take over the shipments there. Decisions of public servants may be served on official e-mail. The stamp and the writing of the date shall be removed with the word on the hotline, and the notification of the consignment sent shall also be made available via an SMS message. The decisions will also be signed by the State secretaries following the new ones, which will certainly burden the ministers with their work. In tax procedures, it is possible that the taxable person is an agrarian community, not all of its members. It will be possible for the founder to carry out the tasks of carrying out the insurance area on his own, meaning that this will allow for the exercise of the environmental control of the municipal and inter-agency administrations as well. With regard to the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, the Government proposes that the tenderer's statements of non-relationship with the chairman of a public person should no longer be obtained in the process of concluding each contract, but only in the case of a concession of a public-private partnership and public procurement. In the Sports Act, double verification of the fulfilment of the conditions of age and at least secondary vocational education in the entry into the register of professional workers in sport is hereby suspended. The law also introduces the establishment of an official register of regulations that will make legislation more transparent as all official texts of national rules will be published in one place. The Official Register will contain all the applicable national rules, including the laws we adopt in the National Assembly, and the regulations adopted by the Government. It will also be done to purify laws and acts that are no longer in force. For today there are still and even there are under-laws that are based on laws that are no longer in force. Funding for the gradual establishment of the official register will be provided over the next five years from EU funds, specifically from the Recovery and Resistance Fund. In the second part of the law, more than 200 laws and related acts are repealed, which are no longer applicable. In so doing, the application of Article 154 of the Constitution, which requires publication in the Official Journal also before the expiry of the national rules, shall be subject to a mechanism for the cleansing of the acquis which will prevent the accumulation of rules which are no longer applicable due to the time elapsed or other changes. Of course, many changes are still needed. This is the first such law, and I believe that this is just the beginning and, of course, the first time to de-de-irocraticize the country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. As the last position of the LMŠ Group, Mr Rudi Medved will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Putting cowardly eggs in the legislation all the time this government has been operating is a constant practice, and also the law on debirocratisation has been able to return a whole bunch of crumbs that have nothing to do with the basic content. Like many of them, the law says Flight over the Coward's Nest. And it is true that one of the major cowardly eggs has fallen out of this law to pressure the public, the professional public, the social partners, in fact because of the lack of votes of members of Desus, as we have heard. We are not surprised at the LMŠ that the law was opposed by the legal services of the ministries. The ministries themselves didn't even want to act as proponents. The text was coordinated only at the level of the cabinets of ministers, and the bill came directly from the Cabinet of Prime Minister, and we would expect, of course, that such a mega-legislature would be accompanied by such fanfares this spring, that such a law would be defended here by a whole range of ministers – such a mega-law. But of course, on the other hand, it is not surprising that they are not here, for they did not have much to do with this law. The Office of the Government of Law has literally broken the law, but you will not find this opinion because it is unofficial; because it is a government service that cares about the legality of government decisions – watch out for this! – I had to get to the proposed law on an informal basis. She found that in many places it is constitutionally controversial, harmful to the country and financially burdensome. But as it's said, the public can't read it anywhere. However, you will find very negative opinions from a whole range of organisations, from trade unions to the Union of Consumers, information agents and others, which have, of course, been spontaneously created, however, because the public concerned or any public was not allowed to form a law. So, on a law that is supposed to make the everyday life of citizens easier, citizens have no right to say, let alone the right to co-form it, because this authority only knows, respected citizens and respected citizens, what is good for you. She's the only one who knows. Your life is supposed to be designed by the Strategic Council for Debarcation, which we don't even know how it works, who, apart from the President of the Government, may be at all responsible. The strategic world has power and no responsibility. But there is also an informal advisory group under Lahovnikov's leadership following the same model, and anti-korona measures are being prepared for the Government, also without the involvement of the interested public, and therefore with a whole range of cowardly eggs, which ultimately in many cases do not hold up the constitutional judgment. The founders of this law want to create in the public a popular impression that the confusion and distortion of the state with 20,000 regulations will be eliminated by a 20,000-first law. This is done by the government, which produced more than 100 laws in a half - second year, close to thousands — or who would count — of other copies and cause such a legal mess that it will not be remediable for years. Now they're going after a new one at 14, and they're going through 20 laws before, with a single mega-legislature. Otherwise, the governments of Janez Janša tend to be such a megalomance – as we remember the infamous Zuyf, we have not yet quite gotten rid of him after almost a decade. In LMŠ, we are convinced that at this point this government would do the most to de-barricacy if it went after itself to look at all the legal ballast that it has wrought in nine anti-Korona laws, and to allow its own lawyers to cross this legal order, including a bunch of decisions that we find a series of unconstitutional ones. That would be a step, at least a small step towards de-de-barcation of society. The far greatest cowardly egg in the marriage really had nothing to do with debirocratization. Just as matters flew into this law from all winds, some of them flew away from it, not because the government would have overlooked their mistakes, but because there were simply not enough voices for them. What is the introduction of a social hat in 6,000 euros? Disturbing developmental personnel so young boys won't go abroad? Come on! In fact, this is totally unjustifiable for managers with the highest earnings and a departure from fundamental social solidarity. The breakdown of solidarity within the pension and disability insurance system, at the same time due to the additional burden on pension and health insurance, which amounts to around EUR 100 million, is estimated at some EUR 130 million per year, and the poor sustainability of these two social security bills. We therefore ask the LMŠ where the administrative burden is. And we answer you also, but here indeed is nowhere, but financial is yes; and this is significant for the best-paid managers' frame. Will this contribute to economic growth and population consumption growth? Of course it won't, you won't back it up with anything. Will this contribute to the growth of the hole in the pension and health treasury? Of course it will, and it will. Well, now it's not in the marriage anymore, but of course we don't believe that this is going to happen anywhere else. Even if this is not the case in this law, it is far too small to support this law in the LMŠ. I ask what the disputed perimeter of the Official Journal will do to de-liberation; except that the taxpayers will already be €780,000 at the start. Laws in Slovenia shall enter into force after publication in the Official Journal. Now they're supposed to be registered in another official register, and now this is going to be permanent access to the current legal order. Yeah, we already have that! The legal and information system provides insight into Slovenian and European legislation and judicial practice! So it has a much wider spectrum, and now, if it ever doesn't work, it just needs to be updated. Interestingly, the management of this new register will require an economic public service, the criteria for selecting the contractor will be determined by the Government, and one of the companies working in this direction has been chosen for many years by Ivan Simič, the creator of the idea of this parallel register. But, of course, I don't want to speculate, probably in this case it's a complete coincidence, like many times in this government's actions. In the following case, I do not know if this is a coincidence, but how self-sufficient and does not take account of the legislation proposed by this government, the Strategic Council for Debarcation, or its ideologist Ivan Simič, is working. In fact, almost at the same time as the Government sent the law to Parliament – we have prepared it in the government of Marjana Šarca – on the basis of which a new identity card contains a digital certificate for facilitating the operations of people with the country, this law has come to Parliament, which reduces e-commerce with the country almost to Facebook level, not to say Twitter, which is anyway almost an official letter from this government or its president. The service of official writings is now scheduled to run by ordinary electronic mail, which dramatically reduces the security of citizens' operations with the country and also leaves open questions of proof of service, which, of course, does not allow the sending of ordinary e-mail. It's enough for someone to know about my Gmail password. In the physical world, you should at least break into a cough. There's no need for that here. This is a huge difference between the operation of the country by means of a qualified digital certificate and Facebook service of official writing. Even during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, we have prepared everything necessary for the operation of the electronic service system – and this system works – whereby citizens have the opportunity to receive electronic documents on the eGovernment national portal. At the time of the epidemic, when the need for secure e-commerce of citizens with the country increased significantly, the Government did nothing to promote the importance of digital certificates. When it was necessary to obtain digital cadaver certificates, the same country demanded that people qualify for certificates and shake their anger because they had not acquired them long ago. And what will be the result of debarcation if public secretaries also issue decisions in administrative proceedings? It'll put an administrative burden on the ministers. Yeah, that really means a lot to citizens! But ministers, of course, will be burdened with responsibilities. Public architectural competitions are also an administrative burden, according to this government, a sufficiently high level of space management culture is the lowest price for the best informed bidders. It is true that the decree on erasing competitions flew out of this law, but not because the government would change their attitude. This too will certainly occur in another law — as a planter, of course. The expert committees on the selection of cultural programmes for co-financing will only be the pendant, which will not be decided in any way, will be decided by the minister. The SDS party's dream of disciplining culturers is therefore being realized in this law and public servants will be being transferred by e-mail. Well, the fact that a police officer would give you a payment order without your statement and without a description of the offence was obviously too much for this government at some point and it flew out of the bill. But we can also expect it to appear somewhere else sooner or later. Otherwise, in the LMŠ, taking into account the ignorant attitude of the current authorities towards all those who have to participate in the drafting of legislation in normal parliamentary democracy, we can only find that we are actually citizens of the administrative burden for the government of Janez Janša. Notwithstanding the potential illegality and constitutional contradiction of many articles of this law, the proposal of the law itself is fully constitutionally controversial. Article 44 of the Constitution provides that every citizen shall have the right to participate directly or through elected representatives in the management of public affairs, without any public debate, without the participation of the profession, even his own ministries. Without social dialogue, there has been a law that concerns every citizen, and that is unacceptable. Just with the title of debarcation, it is impossible to conceal the fact that this authority is of little concern to people. The public debate is the standard, and we have worked hard in this society for a long time. The laws must be written together with those intended for them, in which they intervene daily, and we can read here that the law has been presented to the public in the framework of the Strategic Debarcation Council. They explain to us that the public has cooperated by presenting the law to the preparers. As a result, of course, the preparers will have to go even further in order to be fit for further consideration for the LMŠ. That is why, of course, we will reject this text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. As the first to receive the word, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u152	A nice greeting to all, both to all in the hall and to our citizens and to the citizens in front of small screens! The title of the law in question, which we are considering today, is the proposal for a law on demobilization. I would add a subtitle to it: Who accepted the challenge and who hoped. I mean, why would I think that? 30 years of Slovenia, many years of talk about drowning in some bureaucratic waters, that debirocraticism is necessary, that there is a need to somehow unload our economy with various administrative obstacles and not least to make life easier for people; we had special services that dealt with it and so on. The result? Nothing. A good year and a half ago, the current government of Janez Janša swore, and one of the directions then announced that it would take and take a step forward in the debirocratisation of Slovenia. And today we're talking about it. I really listened well to all the predecessors in their positions, and the most interesting thing was that most of them — and also most of the time — were engaged in things that were no longer in this law. That's really interesting. That is, it is as if we were considering a proposal for a law, and then we would deal with the draft, which was made once before, all the time. It doesn't make sense and it's a waste of time, because something that's gone is really pointless to discuss it. But apparently there was nothing else they could say about this law to oppose it, but somehow the eternal “no” in the left opposition must be justified. If I go a little bit in a row. The fact is that the bill was created with the help of the so-called Strategic Council for Debarcation, where a number of experts from various fields participated. I don't agree to that disrespect that came from some strategic world called the government. Yes, it is, and it was attended by experts. They are also representatives of society, and they may also be interested in the public – right? And it was the Magi who led the case. A Simich who has actually talked a lot about this law. It was interesting to me, however, when he first presented a proposal for a law when he was asked, but there are many comments on this proposal for a law, some are afraid of the use, I do not know that there will be excessive use or even abuse of personal data by individuals, and they were afraid of who would have an insight into these matters, and this service of mail electronically, not physically and so on. He made an interesting statement, which I also imagined, because I remember that time. In fact, the former director of the tax administration was mentioned and once proposed an amendment if you remember the service of mail with regard to the informational calculation of income or, for example, compensation for the use of building land. This must have been the recommended thing to do once, if you remember. It's a country that's costing something. Finally, the whole system was being burdened because someone had to pick it up, if someone wasn't home, it stopped at the post office and so on. I won't go into the details. But when he suggested it, it was full of reservations, some obstacles, some concerns, almost so that the whole system, as far as the tax system was concerned, would collapse. That's not true. Not only have we gotten used to it, but we can see that it is more than excellent and welcome and that today we get it in the mailbox, we have the opportunity to raise an objection and so on. I'm not going to go through with this. Today, when we talk about the law on debarcation – at least those who have said something about the current law and not what it should have been — it is precisely that it brings about changes in different areas that will make life easier for citizens and citizens and, finally, make Slovenia a better business environment. Of course, not everything that needed to be done in this law in the area of debirocraticism was hoped for, but, as it is said, that government had hoped, and that government had done so. And not just that! We need to know that when it was foretold that this law would be prepared, no one knew that such a very large part of the burden would be intended to face a covidus. Yet, all that was somehow promised is being done. Now, I was listening, I'm sorry, one of them explained that the law, which is too ambitious for us, is too small a solution. Others said that obvious debirocraticism was understood quite differently. Some dealt with Zuyfa, from those political options that were essentially Zuyf, which remained, literally turned into a permanent measure when it could be eliminated. So much for how and what to do with Zuiff. In fact, the government of Janez Janša proposed Zujf as a necessary measure at the time and was no longer needed, but the left governments decided to continue with him and turn individual matters into permanent ones. I don't understand why. In short, they've dealt with everything, but tell me, because in fact, who can tell me today if we understand something the same. I don't have a comparison. I didn't see any other government's de-de-irocracy law to compare it. As far as ambition is concerned. I don't know who can judge it, because there's no comparison. Anyone else have any suggestions that they've ever filed? I've never seen such a proposal. That's how I think such ornamental friendly is completely superfluous. Let's do what it is. If anything is missing and can be resolved in this legislative process, I suggest we do so. That is why we have our first reading today, and there will certainly be another matter in further procedures that will come as an additional one, or a matter that will be partially corrected. This is a matter of further procedures and it would be good to discuss this. But maybe just so much to look at because of citizens and citizens, because we talk a lot about this de-de-barcation, and then sometimes, I'd say it's easier to say when you might see what that means in life. Now, if we were to look at the number of regulations and some of the acts that this country has, then we could say that, in fact, in these 30 years, it was more important for someone to be bureaucratic about the state, that no one really wanted the country to be debarced. Why? The answer is simple. The more complicated things are, the less comprehensible people are. The more you complicate a process, the harder people will understand it and the harder they will respond. Here is the key to why, however, the time has come for this demobilization to be necessary. Look, the so-called Register of Legal Regulations – this may also be in the knowledge of citizens and citizens, I may go here a little bit further. We have a register of legal transcripts. It included 52 thousand 269 regulations and other acts on the 6 May cut-off date last year. Can you imagine 52 thousand 269?Oh, my God! For God's sake, tell me a person in this country, as well as lawyers, top lawyers, and a lecturer, if anyone can say that they know at least 30 percent of those rules well. I don't think he's here. But look how we have these regulations. The rules in force – in short, I am talking about this number, which I am now dividing by category – are marked with a green dot. The applicable rules, which are not yet applicable, shall be marked with an orange dot. Then we have rules in force that are no longer applicable and are marked with a black dot. And then we have invalid rules that are still in force, and they have a green-red dot. And we have invalid rules that have a red dot. I'm sorry, but sometimes I'm asking myself, even when our professional services are making some suggestions not to get mixed up, and that they're putting laws on some kind of regulation that's already in the category, I'm going to say, come on, green and red, or even red, or black, because it doesn't matter at all, and I'm going to look green. But that's how it is. That's right! Can you imagine? Before that, it was said that we were going back to the Middle Ages. Well, I don't know where we are. Put your hand on your heart, forgive me for all this, but whoever uses this system has even some disease, where colorlessly some things can't be seen, because they don't even know what regulation applies. We're funny, sometimes we're just out there for the moon, I say. Well, what's most important about all of this is that somehow statistics show that on average 77 laws appear per year on new and about 262 sub-laws. It's a year and it's kind of an average. In short, we are really burdened by these laws and regulations and here it is necessary to change things in general, really clean up, make the system so that it will be usable to be user-friendly. And finally, you know, if an ordinary citizen is using -- it was said earlier, a lot of people have been dealing with social networks, but only if you use Google and you're looking for a law, sometimes, you know, you don't get to the current law. You're coming, but you'll find something else before you do. Such a unified system, where it will be perfectly clear, seems to me to be absolutely necessary for purely basic matters. What is important in this law is that it consists of two parts. The first part of the law somehow interferes with 14 different laws. These are in the areas of justice, internal affairs, public administration, finance, work, agriculture, environment and space, education, health. In short, different areas. I am not going to mention what it is about individual areas or what this law is now about as a change, because I think that a few minutes earlier, a colleague of Susana Lepi Šimenko was committed to this and she was very specific about what and how. It also seems important to me that the other part of the law, which will essentially be designed to put an end to those things that are needed, will be no more. This is also more important for this quantity of rules. Now, there are only a few answers for those who, given their concerns, have touched the current law so much that they have highlighted a matter. Perhaps in response to those who spoke of an electronic form of service. As I understand it may be wrong, but it's a possibility that someone will have if someone doesn't have an email or a computer, but of course they don't have that option. Something else seems more important to me. Some have expressed concern that the country will now have an incredible review of the individual, with their electronic address, even their phone. Now, even at the time of the Crown, because at the time of the Crown, more and more people have decided to buy online purchases, they buy even food online, but all the articles, different things, they also regulate online, we also have an online bank and so on. And in all these matters, if you want to use some online purchase, just a simple matter, just maybe for 5 euros, 10 euros – do you know what you have to give? All his personal information, not just his phone and his e-mail address, his entire data. Even some want exact birthdays, EMHOs and so on. In short, if anyone thinks that this action here in the process of de-de-irocratisation wants to control citizens, he smiles. Even considering what you have to do on the other side for some minor purchase. And another thing is, because you also choose the delivery method, no one asks you if your information will also be available to the Post Office of Slovenia. Well, he does. He's got it! Thus, I think that this concern is unnecessary and that we should move forward with time and allow for such a faster way. As far as this is concerned, I will not comment that some feel that the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, as far as the last reputation of the deceased is concerned, is not the case. I think that's what this marriage is about. I wouldn't say we go this way over time, but let people have their culture and let them say goodbye to their relatives, from those closest to them, if possible. It means a lot to some people, and I don't know why this option wouldn't be given. Just as people choose different ways to bury themselves, so in these smaller places, I think, where this tradition is even more alive, it certainly means a lot to people. And if it means a lot to them, why would they have these options, of course we wouldn't be offering them this as an opportunity. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u153	The next one has the word mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A colleague in front of me just started with a late performance of how this government hopes, how it has done, how it will make people's lives easier by this law on debarcation, and why we have dealt with a law that is no longer in place when we present our views. We would still have this law today, if there were not so many comments in the essence of the professional public. And only then, five minutes before the 12th, before the hearing, did this law withdraw and today we are really talking about another or a somewhat refined law, we are not talking about more than 20 laws that we are changing, but only 14. So much for an introduction. The representative of the Government also stated that this law prevents the accumulation of legislation. In one part I also agree with this, in this second part, which this law brings, where individual laws are deleted, I will tell you further where I see bigger problems. Yes, I also absolutely agree with the need to debirocratise legislation and remove administrative obstacles in Slovenia. But whether this law will bring about a better business environment and its development, I really wonder if this is the right way. The law interferes with the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, and is dealt with in Article 113, where the two sentences are deleted, and I will quote them, "The Minister may reject the Commission's proposal on the financing of a specific public cultural programme or cultural project and return it to the expert committee for re-assessment by reason of reason, but cannot take a different decision than the one proposed in the proposal of the expert commission. The Minister may return a public cultural programme or cultural project to a re-assessment only once«. Now, you tell me where this speed is, how this will all happen faster, because the explanation of Article 40 is that this measure will accelerate the speed of decision-making and increase efficiency. I don't see her in this part. We have also received a warning from the Association – of course I myself know this Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture that there is a need for change. I don't know why we're not going to make a complete change to this law, because that's important. What, then, does the article on an encouraging business environment with the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, about which my colleague also spoke before me, where they will have the opportunity, in fact, where there are fewer than 3,000 inhabitants, to say goodbye to their family members who are lying at home — what does this article of the law have to do with debirocracy? I'm really asking a question here. If we feel that this needs to be changed, please make a change to this law. Because this is where questions are being asked, what will happen next with this law or this article, because the 24-hour duty will continue to work and if it comes to identifying places with less than 3,000 inhabitants, I can also say in concrete terms, in Prevalja and Ravna, that this service will then be significantly more expensive; it will be more expensive for transport, which now amounts to the first transport of 159 euros per individual deceased. And we know how this works out. This price will go up more than twice. Go with a special law, I mean with this specific law, don't put it in the law on debarcation, because this article of the law really doesn't belong in this law on debarcation. The Law on the Official Journal has already been said so much that I really do not intend to let go, because the government's legislative service here is full of concerns, full of comments, which have not changed since the first draft, because it remains exactly the same in this part and is considered to be constitutionally controversial, and even in practice — I do not know now — I cannot judge it — impossible. That's the kind of information we got. The Supreme Court also reminds us of Article 27 of the Debarcation Act, paragraph 32, and of a number of other articles that their comments are not taken into account. And yes, the objective should indeed be to reduce bureaucratic rules, and consequently reduce regulations. So said current Prime Minister Janez Janša 8. 5. 2017, when he said, "more regulations, less freedom and legal certainty for citizens, greater power of bureaucracy and more corruption. There is a need for a programme that will require that, whenever a new regulation is adopted, a few previous ones be merged or abolished, i.e. at least two to one”. Now I'm wondering if this is what this law is after. I don't think so. It creates an even greater confusion of legislation and only a little interference with the substance and core of our legislation, in reducing red tape. Why am I saying that? But I also cite it because of the subsequent laws that we will adopt. We have a long-term supply law under consideration tomorrow, in which we have no defined funding at all. Why do we not have defined funding? Because this government does not yet know how it will finance this system of long-term care. And what will continue to happen? On the basis of this law, if adopted, on long-term care, we will receive another new law — the Long-Terms Financing Act. Let's make two marriages out of one marriage again. Why not the long-term supply law regulates the funding system, and we are all reminded of that. And it's a kind of thing. Even if we look at the PKPs that we've adopted, it's interfered with a number of other laws, and it's just spreading to us instead of shrinking. I absolutely agree, however, that legislation needs to be broken and that those laws that we will have will be clear, readable and understood by such experts and that they will be understood by the ordinary citizen who will have to apply them. The law on the registration of permanent residence and the Central Registry Act is added, of course, to the wish, and a mobile number, and an e-mail address to allow for faster and effective communication or contact between officials and individuals. This sounds very, very nice, but it is important to realize that individuals are changing their phone numbers, and e-mail addresses are also changing. Why are they changing? Because there is an intrusion into e-mail addresses and then you no longer use this address and you have to report the change again as an individual, it's another extra job. At the same time, it is quite forgetting that we have more than 620 thousand pensioners, among them probably a good half who, after all, do not master computer skills, do not have an electronic address, do not have a telephone or phone, but do not know how to use text messages. I can tell you that for sure. Not to mention the key, because as a result, if you have this, you need a computer, and people, older people, pensioners don't have computers because they can't buy them. Thus, even though all of this is voluntary, it is also necessary to think in this context, in the future. However, I must also touch on this General Administrative Procedure Act and also on the possibility for State secretaries to decide matters without the General Administrative Procedure Act. But here I do have a big, big reservation, or I absolutely disagree, because we know that whoever decides, leads and decides in procedures must have the right: first, appropriate education, second, must pass the exam. And if you're in fifth grade education, you're taking the fifth grade exam. If you have an education and a hard job for the sixth grade, you're working for the sixth grade exam. Why am I saying that? Because I did my own exam twice from the General Administrative Procedure Act, because first I had an exam for the sixth grade, and then later when I studied, I even did it for the seventh. The basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act should also be known or known by the Secretary of State to decide on matters. I do not know why we are pressing into this law and absolutely so in the process that the law goes through, it will be necessary to harmonise or adjust, because everyone should learn these basic principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Much more could be said about this law, despite the fact that some have summarized the old law, I think the previous version of the law, but now we have a new form. I really think it would be time for us to start dealing with what is at the heart of this problem – debirocratisation and less administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Natasa Sukić, Mr Aleksander Reberšek is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. It has been said quite a bit, but we have before us a proposal for a law that actually has little more to say than that, almost nothing to do with debarcation than that. Really, practically nothing in common. The government of Janez Janša, who works one and speaks another, continues to build on the effectiveness of a well-founded government. That's why he prefers to rule with decrees, mostly, and a little less with laws, because it's fast, effective and practical overnight. It therefore sets up ad hoc working groups to speed up the country's transition to a digitised and de-de-irocratic society. Finally, it proposes this law on debirocratisation, a smoke screen with a resounding and loving address, which will create complete confusion by interfering and snorkeling according to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and allow a fruitful environment – not to say marshes – to realize the clientelistic interests of certain groups and individuals. Such omnibus laws, which interfere with many other laws, introduce complete impreciseness and are designed primarily to give the richest and most influential ones even more and to give to someone from the right district an additional business with the country. One of the main arguments for the drafting of this law on demobilization, which the Government, by the way, has been preparing in complete silence, past the established procedures, past the Rules of Procedure of the Government, is that a large number of regulations are a key bureaucratic obstacle that is making life worse for businesses and citizens. But only the third Janša government has so far, according to the takeover of power, passed more than a hundred laws and more than a thousand regulations under the law — who would even count it! And all of these are full of various administrative obstacles and violations of the Constitution, violations of human rights that are being dealt with, even often, by the Constitutional Court. Thus, under the pretext of reducing the rules, it is essentially about justifying the existence of Simic's strategic council. Government forecasts of a significant reduction of administrative barriers in the tax, economic and environmental fields have so far not been nearly achieved, at least I do not know that they would. The removal of administrative obstacles and the establishment of a competitive business environment, with which the Government justifies the drafting of this law, are of course always welcome if the Government would take this seriously and if it were not the Janša government; if it were not to repeat now the famous practice by which the government has been in the same way all the time an epidemic with systemic oversight, with which by one stroke it interferes with a series of other rules and creates a huge confusion. These were all anti-Korona packages so far. During the second Janšev government in 20112 the same story was made by the Public Finance Management Act, Zujf. The law is thus intended to clarify in one stroke the legal uncertainty, to determine the termination of laws that cannot create new rights or obligations. It therefore touches on legal rules that do not apply and thus do not affect people's everyday lives. Let's just ask ourselves what the hell this is all about. Why the hell does the Government decide to deal with this urgent matter in such a relatively short term when, on the other hand, there are a number of urgent rules missing and, above all, laws allowing for an effective fight against the epidemic in which we are located? Under pressure from the opposition and the public, although they were somewhat intimidated in the government, they withdrew the original version of the law. In fact, the most controversial provisions concerning the social cap have been deleted from it, but some potential gifts for the deserving have still remained, and this is probably the reason why we are dealing with this bill today. Let's see what kind of gift I have, say, in my mind. For example, the introduction of a new official register of transcripts, which essentially means a circuit from the Official Journal. According to the first estimates, this project is estimated to be worth around €780 000 and it is not a coincidence that it deals with such services – who? The company directly linked to Ivan Simic is the head of the debirocratic project. Interesting, isn't it? Coincidence? Sure. Quite a few bucks for a service we already have. As Luke said today about one thousand minimum net wages. It's all right, isn't it? On the basis of this law, however, it is a constitutionally disputed, a harmful and financially burdensome proposal for a law that has nothing to do with debarcation, but no one at all. On the one hand, it interferes with the content of the sectoral laws taken care of by the competent ministries and, on the other hand, repeals the rules which are no longer applicable in the Slovenian legal order. Anti-Korona packages have already shown that the Government wants to use impreciseness to facilitate the realization of the client interests of groups and individuals and thus wants the Janša government, by law on debarcation, under the pretext of simplifying procedures, to introduce some changes for which governments have sought a broad political and professional consensus in the past. Such omnibus laws, which interfere with many other laws, therefore introduce mainly intransparency, intransparency of laws and serve all other purposes, not de-liberation alone. At the same time, such laws are an indicator of the weakness of the ruling coalition, which most in the National Assembly do not have and, as it is said, whether it rules with decrees or rushes into one law all alive to overrun 14 or 20 other laws. This is a smoke screen, which, my dears, is not even 400 canisters of Hojs' gas over Ljubljana, and another reason why this government must leave immediately and why we must have early elections as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Now the secretary of state wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. There were a number of questions raised in the debate, so I would like to take the opportunity to answer at least some of them. Most of the time, the question was raised as to the appropriateness of the package adoption of these de-de-barcation measures on the one hand and, on the other, the insufficientness of these proposed measures, which would actually have contributed to de-barcation. This argument seems to me to be somewhat contradictory, because if it were to be pointed out that the proposed demobilization measures had nothing to do with debarcation, what would be the reaction if, for every single solution in this law, the Government had prepared a separate legal novelty presented by the Minister, as has been heard and proposed. As it is said, this is a matter of simple legal measures that do not require any systemic changes, but make life difficult for individuals and businesses. This would compare with the fact that we are all trying to debirocratise Slovenia, but every single step in this direction seems too small or unnecessary to be done at all and therefore Slovenia is actually a foot in this area. I think the only way we can do this is to prepare a package of changes and then put them into the National Assembly. I can offer you a comparison with this law enforcement measure. It has been repeatedly said that before the establishment of the Strategic Council, we had over 30,000 state rules. Efforts to clear this up have been made in various governments for years, but it has been found that the speed of clearing the acquis is one percent of the legal order per year. This means that at this rate the legal order would be able to be cleansed within hundreds of years when it would probably be necessary to start again. When we tackled the package solution of this problem, or the ministries themselves, they were only able to review the entire legal order within a few months and find that five-sixths of the legal acts entered into this register of rules are not binding and do not actually have the nature of the general legal acts. I would then touch on the concerns that there has been no public hearing of this proposal. It is only the first debate, the law is only entered into the National Assembly, the legislative procedure is public, a regular procedure is envisaged and the public will have every opportunity to express its concerns in the National Assembly. Then I would also respond to concerns about the financial effects of this law. In this context, a social cap was also mentioned, which is no longer part of this bill, but only so that I can put it into a broader context. The official register will have some financial effects for around €700,000, after mentioning the social cap, which is now gone, which would have negative financial effects on the public treasury of around €70 million. According to the data I received today from the Financial Administration, several social contributions collected in this year's nine months, compared to 2019, bring 700 million more inflows to health and social treasury. This is said to be the reason why there are more inflows to these social registers, but unemployment is lower. If you have previously compared the impact of the cost on the official register for a thousand minimum wages, it means lower unemployment for a million minimum wages that have changed or have compensated for unemployment benefits. Then I would respond to questions about what it brings or what added value the official register has. This is where there were reports that it was the perimeter of the Official Journal. This is not true, since the Official Journal remains unchanged and is intended for the first time to inform individuals of a regulation before it enters into force and the rules are drawn up in the chronological order and the rules will be collected in the official register by hierarchy and subject matter and will allow permanent access by individuals to the applicable legal order. Nor has it been repeatedly made clear that the management of the official register will be directed to an economic company. That's not true. The law clearly states that the official registry administrator will be the Official Gazette itself. And in fact, the official register will only mean the fourth collection in the management of the Official Journal. They are already managing three collections, this is the Official Gazette — the regulatory part, the Official Gazette — the announcing part and the Official Gazette — the international treaties. Officially refined texts will be published in this fourth part, since, as you know, most of the time, only marriage novels are being adopted and much less whole laws are being adopted. However, as regards the added value of the existing legal and information system, the main difference is that the existing legal and information system is of an information nature, where it clearly states that the State does not assume any responsibility, not for compensation or any other liability for the correctness of the content in this information system. However, the new official register will be subject to the principle of trust, so citizens will not have to bear the harmful consequences if it turns out that there has been any error in linking the matter with the basic law. I would then also respond to the question of what are the differences between the original proposal and the alternative proposal. The reason why the Government withdrew five laws in its replacement proposal is that this would block the legislative process because, according to the existing interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, even when legal novelties are being introduced – this means that such legal novelties block the entire scope of that regulation. Although only one article can be amended in the Public Procurement Act, this means that the whole area of public procurement at that time cannot be dealt with simultaneously in the second draft law. This interpretation of this Rules of Procedure goes even so far as to extend this until the law is in force, even though, for example, the law has already been adopted in the National Assembly and is also published in the Official Journal and it is actually possible for everyone to get to know what these amendments have actually been made. After all, it's about service to an e-mail address. Here it may be a mistake, it is not an obligation, it is only an added new option for citizens, and it will also not establish a Facebook level as there was some express concern, because it will require a two-phase authentication via a mobile phone number. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor, Ms Maša Kociper is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u160	President, thank you very much for your word. The aim of the bill is to improve the business environment and the situation in the area of administrative barriers. Now, man doesn't know if it's good to do anything in this country, or if it's better not to do anything, because whatever we do, it's never right for the opposition. The fact is that the results of this government cannot be denied, and it is more than obvious that we are doing well and the numbers are clear. The numbers are a clear indicator. The law that we are considering today repeals more than 200 laws that no longer apply. Of course, all sub-laws issued on their basis are also repealed, and the law also provides for the cessation of the application of 18 federal Yugoslav laws. After all the left governments, we had to come to power to now regulate this formality. We! What have you been doing all these years? So, we're repairing the congested condition. Given how many comments you have on this law, it is very strange that you have not yet written the law on debarcation when you were in power. I didn't see your marriage. What is it, exactly? Because of this law, people, our citizens will live better, we will simplify their procedures, we will simplify their lives and we are here to work for people. Because that's all that counts. For they count the acts when you are in authority, and not the fine words when you are in opposition. The law brings a wide variety of changes in various areas, such as facilitating the electronic communication of officials with individuals, abolishing the mandatory issuance of invoices on card payments, shortening the time limit for receiving offers in the sale of agricultural land from 30 days to 15 days, linking records in the field of higher education, eliminating the obligation to make certain unnecessary declarations, and so on. We're speeding up the procedures. And when I'm listening here today to members of the Left who are talking about the development cap, even though there is no talk in this law, and that we're giving this money to rich people, and I don't know what else, it's one big talk. Unfortunately, this is all too much in the National Assembly; too many words turn to their own good. I must also respond to the words of Ambassador Sukice of the Party of Levi, who, before leaving the Chamber, said that the government must leave. Who are you painting?? Because of you, this government is due to the party of Levi, because you didn't want to go to the government because you didn't want to take responsibility, because you automatically calculated that the chair was worth more than all your promises you'd never been able to fulfill, and that's why you didn't want to take responsibility. And don't say that this government has to leave. You're the reason this government is here. I also wonder why the opposition opposes the law on demobilization. Tell me who in this country doesn't want simple and quick procedures. When I first listened to your client coordinator on the Left, he said they disagreed with the solutions in this law. In fact, the Left always opposes all the good proposals of New Slovenia and the very good proposals of this government. For this reason, I tell all the voters of the Left: this government has provided citizens with a tourist voucher, not one, two tourist vouchers, and you continue to elect the party Levica. If Lefta wins the next election, I'm sure we'll need more food vouchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u161	Mr. Alexander Reberšek, thank you for your discussion. Let me just point out that we are not at a congress or a pre-election meeting and addressing the voters of the Left in this way is a little inappropriate; it is inappropriate for us to discuss the bill. Let's just focus on the content of the law, but not on tourist vouchers, but I don't know what else. Mr Trček has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u162	I'll be procedural. Indeed, I have been officially absent for the last four or five days, but it seems to me that in the meantime it has not changed that you are following the laws in the National Assembly only those who are in power, as my colleague Reberšek would say. Whether we still adopt the laws of all Members and Members of Parliament, of all 90, or only those who are in power. I would like to make this clear, Madam President, because based on his argument, it's just that when you're in opposition, you're pushing something, which is what the current finance minister said, but when you're in power and the laws aren't yours, ours. [[…]] The laws are the laws of the Republic of Slovenia, published in the Official Journal and do not state whether it is left, right or sharp. Three more years from now, I'd know more than that if I brought him here, but you don't know that yet, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This was a procedural question for me, which I will not answer because Dr. Duck has already given the answer, so I will not cheat. The debate will continue. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Prepare yourself as the next Mr. Jura Ferrjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Vice President. Although the name of this law is, it has to be acknowledged, it is very pleasing and I must admit that we in the party SAB are also in the final pre-election programme, a little in jest, but very much indeed, we will write that if and when we are in power, we will adopt a law on the elimination of all nonsense. For there has been too much of it, too much red tape, too much unnecessary work, too much unnecessary acts, too much legal, too much red tape, too much red tape, and so on and so on, and one day it should be arranged. But unfortunately, when you take this marriage into your hands, you find that none of this good purpose is left here. Instead of some serious debirocratic law that really, as my predecessor said, would change people's lives, make their lives better – watch out, the law on debirocracy would make their lives better – we got some strange mix of changes to many laws, some kind of Zujf in terms of amendments to a number of laws, which ultimately does not bring any real debirocracy. And that's too bad. Because if you've already started, if you've put some effort into it, then you might as well do it. Thus, in our first reading, we received a mixture, so vaguely, in which they wanted to solve some purely substantive things, such as a social cap, which would of course require a special debate, a special law and so forth. Then it was a really dilettarian mistake with a two-thirds majority in one marriage, and in the end, there may have been some very well - intentioned law, from which there may not be much. Instead of writing a number at the post office or having an official register, I welcome it, it is great, but it is not debarcation in the sense of a regulation that would simplify people's lives. Now in the second part, I'm going to talk a little bit about this purely legal part of our system, it's about the legal system that we have and that contains now or on Day 6. 5. 2020, as I read from material, contained 52 000 300 regulations and, most importantly, more than 6 000 700 laws. In the Republic of Slovenia, a relatively small country, we do not have some federal level and so on, 6,000 700 laws. And on behalf of my legal profession, I can say that this is a situation we now have that is very poor and very poor to contribute to legal certainty and very poorly to the functioning of the rule of law. You used to be, say, a lawyer, you were an expert in an area, you could actually think of, if you knew this, some kind of legislation, you knew exactly what this legislation was about, they couldn't "find you" because you had it in you. Now you can be very specialized in some area, but you are never quite sure what exists, whether there is another law at the moment, or whether this is the subject, which is the most platypus, arranged by the way in another marriage that you have not even thought of. In fact, you are always in one mortal fear that you do not know this content and this legislation to perfection, and you can make some legal error. This is, of course, extremely bad for legal certainty and extremely bad for the rule of law. Even what our laws have turned into. Sometimes, a few years ago, the law that regulated bankruptcy and legal settlement, I mention it several times, a short, simple marriage, I make a few notes, such a mental pattern, and I understand bankruptcy and court settlement. Now we have ZFPPIPP, one of my favorite laws. I mean, who understands this law and isn't a lawyer to raise his hand. I don't know if it's anybody. And there's a lot of lawyers that don't. Some totally complicated matter, where someone who wrote this, tried to predict every single life situation that might or might not happen, but if it does, it may have to be solved that way, and so with some connection to the articles here and there, one of the judges said it was going to run across the minefield when you just wait for the article to blow you up. And, of course, this does not contribute to legal certainty. An economic operator who is not a lawyer or an entrepreneur or a small entrepreneur must understand in some normal way bankruptcy legislation or procedures in a forced settlement that he knows what is waiting for him if that happens. That he doesn't have to pay a lawyer for every single thing. These are things that should be stepped up once, and this should be done and this should be simplified. That's how I understood Janez Janša at the time, I don't know which session he met once at the beginning, where he said it was necessary to simplify and abolish individual laws, unite laws and, if possible, when the new law comes to end two, unite areas, make things more transparent. That's what I want! Of course, there is no such thing in this marriage. It's a couple of good intentions, but they don't have a lot of debirocracy. Finally, regardless of the legal order we have, in our legal order, as everywhere, there is still a well-known old rule, from Roman law comes, ignoratia iuris nocturnal; it is said, no matter how many thousands and thousands of laws we have in this complicated country, the rule is that citizens must know the laws and this legal presumption says you can't say that you didn't know anything. However, if the law is in force, it has been published, has vacatio legis and so on. Unfortunately, we're in the current system far from that, and unfortunately, I have to find out that this beautiful-sounding law with this nice-sounding title doesn't even solve it and it doesn't make it any better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jura Ferrjan has the following word, Mr Jože Lenart is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u166	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear guests, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, and all those who accompany us, welcome! In front of us is a law that interferes with a number of areas, but above all, if we can say that it improves the life of every citizen and citizen, facilitates the day-to-day business of Slovenian companies and allows the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian business environment, also in an international environment, to be more competitive, more comparable and even more inviting both for domestic capital, domestic investment and, of course, foreign capital and foreign investment. I am pleased that under the leadership of Janez Janša, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken this area very seriously and with responsibility. This is also evidenced by the establishment of the Strategic Council for Debarcation, which has essentially made a comprehensive analysis of the situation. And the Debarcation Council has included a number of experts from various fields, from various economic experts to informatics as well as local communities. This broad selection has, of course, also allowed for a comprehensive review and, of course, an analysis of the actual situation in practice. I think it is crucial that what is adopted at the legislative level is that we can actually implement it in practice and that it serves its original purpose as much as possible. The law ahead of us also focused on both taxes and the economy as well as on the environment when it was being prepared, if we look at the working groups that this world had which analysed the area. The key message of this law is and, of course, one of the elements it brings is that public services will be more accessible to all citizens and, of course, more effective. This law removes a number of administrative burdens, obstacles which the state imposes on the Slovenian population, residents, citizens, citizens, of course also economic operators, as well as farmers and various areas in Slovenian society, of course also officials who deal with these matters daily and also at the level of municipalities. If we look at this point at the current situation in which Slovenia is in the area of bureaucracy or the situation, we can say that we have a huge untapped potential and a lot of things are being done in this area. For example, the 2019 regulatory burden index shows that Slovenia is at the bottom of an international comparison, i.e. we were only 126 countries out of a total of 141. This can clearly tell us and confirm the statement that in fact here the room of manoeuvre is very open and that in this area it can be made huge. When we talk about de-de-barcation, it is also necessary to realize that this is not a one-off process, but it is a story that I believe we are starting with today's law and that we will also be considering another package in the coming months which, on the basis of what we are dealing with today, will further burden this area. Of course, the fact that we have 10,000 legal acts in Slovenia, the oldest in 1946, is in itself very coherent and can also tell us most of all that we urgently need some law, some change in this area, that after all these years, for the first time in Slovenia, the process of demobilization begins. And this is an important message, which I hope we will all have in mind when we vote on this law today. The law on debarcation, drafted by the government, is both interfering with the amendment or amendment of 14 different laws, but also repeals more than 200 regulations, laws and, of course, also introduces mechanisms that will not lead to this kind of bureaucratic cover in the future, if I put it that way. Today, it has also been pointed out that one of the important issues that this law brings has been the introduction of a so-called official register, which, given that we are in an age where we are somehow digital, which brings a number of advantages and at the same time we have a flood of information, will allow for a safe, accessible, reliable portal, one place where this legislation will, of course, be collected and where each individual will be able to look at a certain regulation, a law which he is interested in and which is also relevant to him at that point in time, is important, especially valid and, of course, directly or directly affects him. Respected and respected, so if we somehow connect and ask ourselves what this law brings, we can see that many effects, which are also plural, are said, on the one hand, we have increased and easier access to public administration services for all citizens, at the same time, the administrative environment in Slovenia is significantly improving with this law. The assessment is that, for a six-folder, fewer rules will be required under this law, which must be binding on our citizens and citizens. At the same time, of course, this administrative environment will also be more encouraging and will attract, as I mentioned, new investments, new capital. At the same time, this will also mean greater competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, which, of course, also increases economic growth and, consequently, prosperity for all the inhabitants and residents of our country. Such measures, of course, relieve the population and the economy. These effects will also be visible in the area of social, entrepreneurship and social assistance. They will certainly also reflect that the ideas that individual companies, entrepreneurs, innovators have can also be more easily and faster implemented in practice and thus create added value and at the same time new jobs and thus, of course, raise the Slovenian economy. I'm sure this law brings about a breakthrough. This law also confirms that the current government is fulfilling its promises to take seriously what it says in the coalition contract, and I place my heart on all of us that today, when we vote on this law, the vote for this law is for the developmental breakthrough of Slovenia. At the same time, when we look at the results of the vote on this law, the vote against this law is against development. I hope that in this area, because this is one of the laws where politics should be unified, but we will be able to jointly support a law that makes life easier, a better life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, a more successful business environment and, of course, a greater accessibility of public services, while at the same time moving forward with globalisation, digitisation and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Next up, Mr. Jože Lenart, get ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm also going to allow myself three sentences of words about Zuyf in the introduction, because there was a misdirection in this hall before. Zujf was, of course, introduced because of the emergency after the cost reduction at the time, but Zujf had been following the fiscal rule, even the golden fiscal rule; this is always forgotten. And it was only when the economy recovered so much that it was satisfied with the fiscal rule that Zuyf could leave, and I ask that he remembers this and does not speak populistally. So many introductorys. As far as the law on de-biro-folding is concerned – I deliberately shared that word because I think it says so more – and I have to say the following. When I entered the National Assembly, I also gave one statement to the press, what I expected as a Member of Parliament, and I said that, as my first objective, debirocratisation. I expected a lot of this, and I'll tell you why later. Of course, I am disappointed today, even in these three years, how little we have achieved here, we have practically even complicated a certain period, even now in the last year half. I am certainly not satisfied with this law, and I say that by this law, as you have presented in theory today, you are very cooperative if you think it will be useful in practice. A very campaign approach, theoretically, which poses a great threat to me. And for a year you've been preparing it, and I believe the goal was to do something, but you're running out of time. Now put it out in the public eye quickly, but, look, without the public handling it, all the stakeholders that are needed because you've ruled them out – that's not going to work. You also wanted some kind of tax reform. In the end, you have removed certain matters, but yet there are here, in this law also the prodigals. Of course, these significant financial consequences, which you are talking about and which also affect three cash registers, bring a minus, not a plus. That's why I'm saying this law doesn't happen. As I have said before, although beautifully presented, in practice, in order to perform, I see only the possibility of performing these urges and this will be heard in public by the populism: we have prepared and adopted a law, of course de-biro times-zacija, and then point to the next government, that the next government has everything, but it does not know how to do it in practice. Why do I say that? See, in particular, that the current legislation that you are boasting about, how much has been adopted, how much has been done, much of this legislation will have to be aligned first with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because we know how many violations it has. Only then will this be possible to continue. Now, if we go to this second point, which is also very much mentioned. Digital transformation of the country and society, of course this bureaucracy, without comprehensive digitisation cannot be achieved. And here we agree: digital transformation, modern information systems, of course central, represent or lead to productivity, not only in the economy, but also in the state administration – through the debirocraticisation provided by digital transformation. It's impossible without her. And this, of course, represents competitiveness and development breakthroughs. Here's the order, so I'm saying, you're radical, what you've theoretically prepared. Without harmonisation, without the laws that will have to be aligned with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, there will be no way. Of course, there's an opportunity here that we all see. Here's the NOO, a recovery plan and resistance plan. And here we know that it's green and digital, and the funds are being drained. And if ever, it will now be necessary to properly adjust and draw on and finally acquire these funds, achieving this goal of digital transformation of the country and society. Something like what they did years ago in Estonia, if I'm not mistaken. It's also a small country where they did it successfully, and if you ask me, you'd go over there and see how they did it and how they did it. I think they're for example, and then you have a case like this before you as an example of good practice, it's probably good not to rediscover America. Now I'd like to introduce you to two cases, as I said. The first case in 2017, when I was a citizen of Slovenia, I was able to make a concrete movement in debarcation when someone earlier said that nothing had been done so far. Now let me tell you how a citizen of Slovenia can do this. See, that's when they turned to me with the problem that a lot of employees or those who leave for retirement do not have a full-time pension. Why? The problem was the M-4 form, which was – that is to say, by 31 December each year, companies, capital companies, d.o.o., shareholders, management companies, silent companies for all employees for the previous year had to submit an M-4 form that was the basis for the recognition of working time. It is mainly those companies that have transformed from s.p. to d.o.o.; as s.p., this did not have to be done. Of course, these entrepreneurs don't even know it, but the PIZ didn't warn them. And you won't believe it when I heard it, I said it, and it can't be like that. And I went to the portal I suggest.Government.si., this problem highlighted, of course got the very positive hooks, because it depends on how the government approaches and the government really answered me in 30 days, in April, the answer was on 7 pages, legal. Believe me, I read it three or four times, and I didn't believe it or understand it. I also gave it to experts, to colleagues who also smiled, because we don't know what they're trying to explain. And of course, persistent as I am, I gave this to the investigative journalists and the Finances, who, in May, did a wide-ranging research, of course with the leadership of the PPIZ, wanted their responses by unit and found that more than 4,000 people have gone to retirement in May and have this problem that they lack working time because one bureaucratic form has not been presented. Of course, I contacted myself. I even have a colleague on the PIZ, the inspector I introduced to him. He said, don't be crazy, there's nothing you can do. I said, you don't freak out, 'cause I'm gonna do it. There's another thing he said, and that's what I have to tell you. Those companies which did not pay the contributions, however, sent the M4 forms blank and were granted this working time to all those workers. Which is right, of course, because workers are not to blame for the employer’s failure to pay his contributions. And the finance does all this research and then the month of July, August, lets everyone, and I continue this action in September. Nothing has moved and I will give the Ombudsman in early October. And look, at the end of October, I get the Ombudsman's response: yes, because everyone can thank you. Article 134a was adopted in the National Assembly, which is now dealing with this. That is to say, by that time, the good 4,000 that have not been recognized, and all the others who are now coming into retirement, are now recognized by this working period. That's one thing. But even more so in the direction of debarcation is my conclusion, when I was already a member of the National Assembly, that ZPIZ then abolished this form M-4 because it was not necessary because the same data could be obtained from Furs. What do I mean by that? It's not that I'm talking to myself proudly right now, but what I'm saying is, debirocratization can be done if people think about where things can simplify. Why did one citizen have to warn, try, and do everything to make it happen? Why can't employees do that? Why can't the Ministry, the Ministry of Finance and the government do this as such? That's why I told you this case because I'm wondering what's wrong with us. And I am saying, all this legislation, the law itself with all the accompanying laws that you are now boasting so much that you have changed them – nothing helps if people don't start thinking; but thinking both in these state services and in the economy to survive on the market. Without it, they won't do anything. Now for the second case. As I said, that's why I came to the National Assembly, because it encouraged me, but it wasn't the only thing, and I told myself that we have to do as much as possible in this area, and I am very disappointed today. However, I have also proposed in good faith, in the first months, something in a public health institution, how to come up with some solutions to stop unhealthy, harmful business practices and also the political influences that have taken place to resolve certain issues. And look at him, I got 'em all over my head. Today, the epilogue is that a lot of things are honest, saved and standing. In court, however, there was a then principal who tried to move something around — a bureaucratic offense. But the rest of it's still there. And as long as we don't know how to solve this thing and watch it live, we're not gonna do anything about it. I want to say this very clearly and very loudly to you today. Therefore, this law, which you now have on the table, is virtually impractical. I could still mention, I don't know how long everything is missing here, but it is, theoretically, I don't know how much you're bragging about – no government can bring him to life until all the previous things are resolved in their place, so that you can imagine that today we would be doing a digital transformation of the state and society based on the legislation that is now on the table, when everything is intertwined, that I will not say in a single word, inconvenient. [[…]] It's impossible! Also, if we had to work hard, we would have spent a lot of millions of these funds from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. However, since the matter would not be useful, we could then re-position it and, of course, again these information providers would serve as well as in some other cases. That is why we need to address this area systematically in order to achieve the goal, and in this way we do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I would just like to ask you, with what specific article of the Constitution should you consider the law on de-de-irocracy be harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u171	Madam Secretary of State, you Members have no right to ask questions because they have no opportunity to answer you. That's why it's so unfair. You're here to discuss and explain the government's views. Now specifically refer questions to Members, as they say, who cannot answer you because this is not a replica or a Member is not obliged to answer you, but you are obliged to answer Members because you represent the Government and the Government is obliged to answer the Assembly. I therefore suggest that in your presentation, you focus on explaining your position and not on addressing Members, but not on the question of Members. The role here is reversed. The MPs can ask you, but you can't ask them. So I suggest you discuss it in this spirit. [[advertising from the hall]] Just a question. Are you finished with your performance, Secretary of State? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Lenart has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u172	Yeah, I'm going to have a replica, because I made it very clear, it's not just the law on debirocracy, it's all the other laws that monitor this. However, I have made it clear that many of the laws adopted, which all then relate to this common law, have been found today, and that they are already inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we cannot implement the digital transformation of the country, because the side would be left with money and we should then fix it back when the real government comes, which will respect democracy and the legal acts themselves and all the other legislation that is around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, prepare Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I don't have a lot of time, I'll be relatively short. In fact, I am in favour of bureaucracy, I am in favour of quality bureaucracy and societies that think about themselves, they also have schools that are lagging behind this bureaucracy, and this bureaucracy also has a distance to every political power, which is the only right thing. This is the bureaucracy that I repeatedly use in the Anglo-Saxon term for the public and state administration of civilian servants; someone who serves the civitas if you want, citizens and citizens. Now I could quote what it says on some door in Dubrovnik when politicians went there to put a little bit of yourself and your private interests in perspective. Analytical, critical, not just critics, because we've known for 30 years that we live in hyperlegal societies. And this is also one of the leagues and flaws, if you will, of the European Union. If we went to see how this number of laws grew; they grew through time, regardless of the government's solitude: left, right, liberal, less liberal. We also produced certain laws, for example, because we made guarantees for a few kilometers of highway, not for the whole, and so on and so forth. But if at least a little high school sociology has been planted in your life, at least a little Webra, you know what that "iron cage of bureaucracy" is. If we are to tackle what you call debirocratisation, we must pursue a culture of public and state administration, and in a narrower sense, some more monopolistic areas in this society. For example, energy is one way, and doctors who usurp the right to decide on public health alone, and so on. Then we have another problem. I admit that before more of the accident happened to me that I was a Parliamentarian, of course, it was not my evening reading of legislation, but because I took this work seriously, I began to read the laws seriously. At the time, we had that big SMC, and then I was wondering how a party that has as many lawyers per square kilometer as the SDS of the FDV and the FSPNs write such bad laws. Then they basically explained to me that they weren't even taught serious nomotechnics at the undergraduate level. Then I went to watch some textbooks and really, the textbooks have one of three pages, maybe an hour, two. This is about as if we, the sociologists, would not have learned a serious social methodology, but we were already confused by the social methodology during the study. And this situation has also been largely established by the lawyers of poor bureaucrats, if I may say so. On the other hand, it was fitting that some of the areas Masha was talking about should have been crushed. If you really meant what you wanted to argue here right now, you'd do it in the case of spatial legislation. Now we have little change and you have even written down the case of one of the Scandinavian countries, which the regulation of this area is considered to be the best in the world. This is a strong law of protection in which a wide range of stakeholders have participated, written in a language that is understood by every citizen, but at the same time you have one serious law on environmental impacts, which their economy understands and does not take as a bureaucratic bar. That's how these matters should be handled. But we had — how much? – 9 or how many of these PKPs have been, because one doesn't know almost who one Zuyf was on the n-potential, which has pissed everything out alive, and now you're going to half-cock something with it and then you're going to sell me that story that he's supposed to buy. I will answer you with Minister Visiak: “A man of arguments is in here.” Then you have more, I don't know. But yes, a couple of laws are from the Old South. [[…]] I mean, in the next reading, you'll probably want to abolish Roman law. Perhaps some will be happy to study law or at least Justinian codification. I mean, let's calm down your madness! Then you say that this will be the developmental breakthrough of Slovenia. I ask you kindly, with this government, which, apart from that minister for Slovenians around the world, every minister should, for objective and subjective reasons, resign that hidden minister at school. So who are you grabbing? My one-year-old grandson doesn't buy that story. And how will this crazy improvement be? You know, as one-eighth of the people in this country are hitting poverty, the other eighth is close, none of us have anything to knock on, that he's either a big patriot or the biggest leftist with such a red star. [[…]] These are some problems and I am saddened that, in fact, here the representative of the government falls into some kind of political propaganda. However, if we are going to talk seriously about some percentages, percentages of indicators, let us say that we have the highest long-term unemployment rate, which represents 60 percent of all unemployment. That we have a lot of people who are really busy, but they're already hitting poverty, and the pension is going to be - God forbid. That this government has entrusted us so much that my one-year-old grandson's grandkids will pay it off. Then let's talk about it. This government has absolutely no legitimacy, and the 20 percent, plus the minus statistical error, are the half of those who, in fact, participate in this legitimate place from your position, and not in the position of serious legal validity. So I will conclude with Jelko Kacin: “Enjoy it while you can.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the next word. Get ready, Mr. Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A law on debirocratisation that doesn't debirocrate anything. How typical of Janez Janša’s third government! It is clear from the outset why ladies and gentlemen of the Government have drawn up this law. To deal with the social state. The original form of this law contained a provision that now went out under all public pressure, namely a social cap, a restriction on contributions to health and pension bills, of course at the expense of capital, at the expense of the rich, who would earn such taxation. In total, the intention is to tax tax taxpayers with only one billion euros a year. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the government of Janez Janša has committed itself to taking away one billion euros from the social state that benefits the working class, the poorest people in our country, and giving it to the richest. But at the same time, what happens in the National Assembly? A few months ago, a law was passed which purposely recasted EUR 780 million of budget money into military industrial arms purchases complexes. At the same time, the Health Investment Act, which has no other coverage than simple budget expenditure, is not provided for, and is also adopted at the same time as the Long-Term Care Act, which is not covered by dedicated resources, is simply budgeted and left to one of the following governments. It is said that, on the one hand, under the government of Janez Janša, expenditure flies unreasonablely into the sky, but on the other hand, the government cuts the revenue side of the budget, it is taxes and contributions to comply with the rich and capitalist class. Even if we take the title of the law, namely debarcation, seriously, we can face the same paradox; in the last year and a half – what happened to the Slovenian legislative corps? Yes, the government of Janez Janša dropped a bomb on him, completely scattered it with nine shots called an anti-Korona package. Provisions in the omnibus law which interfere with the third, and the fourth, a set of regulations that have no connection with the epidemic, but with such and other repressive ideas of the government, and similar stories. Now the power that spreads through legislation brings joy to her, as if we no longer have too many laws and too many unregulated areas, to the table of the National Assembly to deal with the law that has been given itself the name of the law on debirocracy. It is clear from this context that we cannot take the action seriously. As I pointed out at the outset, the real purpose of this law, hidden by the expression of debirocratisation, was the social cap, i.e. the robbery of social cash registers to transfer funds to the pockets of the rich. Where, as the political establishment likes to say, it is not a field of taxation or an area of the economy that should be discussed as a matter of priority. There is usually a speech on the elimination of administrative barriers and the de-de-barcation of only a co-regulatory note to deregulation, either labour protection or environmental protection, or community protection as a whole. Where there is actually a need to talk about de-de-irocratisation and the removal of administrative barriers, the social area is a social area. The Ministry of Labour with all its subsystems, the whole body of social legislation, measures are designed at the implementing level as an intransient, untransparent maze. Why? Because the purpose of Slovenian social policy — under any of the last governments — is not to help individuals in distress as a society, but to frighten them as much as possible and to deter them from benefiting and demanding their social rights. Whoever thinks seriously in this country will first debirocratise the Ministry of Labour, but not cut taxes for the richest in the superhikov antirobinhood style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Now I suggest to my colleagues that you stick to the content of the law and not speak primarily of what is not in marriage. The chapters are defined, the contents are also contained, and I hope that you can understand what and what you will discuss. We continue the debate. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u178	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Respected by the Ministry and respected colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor, who is also an open supporter of the abolition of the Slovenian Army, spoke very seriously, but he spoke little seriously about the law that we are talking about today, which is called the law on debarcation. One of the measures taken by this government is the creation of a de-de-iracation group on tax, economic and environmental regulations. This is also what my predecessor is passionately advocating, a commendable measure, and I believe that by means of the proposal for a law on the debarcation of these objectives, these groups will also be able to achieve it. Before I begin the law, which I will gladly support as a New Slovenia Member - Christian Democrats, let us return to the origin of the problem of so-called bureaucracy. The definition of bureaucracy is French. If we repeat knowledge a little bit; the bureau is an office, an official staff, a system in the administration in which formalism dominates and blindly follows regulations without a sense of meaning and regardless of the real needs in the particular situation. But I must say, there are also bright exceptions to this place. According to their own words, citizens and citizens want to comply with Slovenian legislation, but they also rightly expect an official to propose a solution to their problems. Unfortunately, they often get an answer, sir, ma'am, but that's not possible. An official becomes a problem instead of a solution. Thus, the formerly advanced direction, which has been well established since Roman times, becomes a social problem. And now we move on. What are you people, what do citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want? They want a lean country with clear legislation that establishes order and discipline. I have received a lot of support in the past and also today from citizens and citizens to my e-mail address supporting the proposed bill. On the other hand, we look at what economists want. Here I have an article, economists at today's omism organised in the framework of the MOS fair in Celje said loudly and clearly: reducing red tape. And that's what this bill says and saves. Before I stop at the law itself, let me say that in the past or in other countries, such as France, about 40 percent of the laws of Napoleon’s time are still in practice and operating in France. On our side, though, the thinking of officials in the time of Austro-Hungarian times or in the time of Mary Teresa, we know that these laws were also very well established. The very first part of the bill contains a package of solutions, a set-up in various areas. This is where I would point out only the Civil Service Act. It is also possible to service the decisions to public servants by e-mail. I would point out, however, that in tax procedures, the taxable person is an agrarian community, not all of its members. This will greatly help the agrarian community and relieve the work. In the Agricultural Land Act, the time limit for the acceptance of an offer for the sale of agricultural land, forest or farm from 30 days to 15 days is reduced; in the Tax Law on the confirmation of invoices, the obligation to issue invoices shall be abolished. Anyone who pays at the inn or somewhere else gets two cuts, can now only be one; that is, we reduce the paperwork and so on. The law on higher education upgrades digitisation in higher education, enables even better integration of records and simplifies electronic commerce. In the past, I have met in education with such absurdities that digitisation of student fees was not possible because university records were not linked. Absurd absurd! The legislation provides for the gradual establishment of an official register of the Republic of Slovenia where official purified texts will be published. And something that is still important in the countryside and that is why we have also proposed in New Slovenia that the wish of the mourners be respected so that the deceased can lie at home. Here, in the countryside, I come from the countryside alone and these requests are more than obvious. In the second part, which is also understood by debirocratisation, the old rules are repealed. A total of 224 laws, of which 206 laws are no longer applicable. Dear citizens and citizens, 206 laws that no longer apply. Will this solve all our problems? No, we won't, but we're on our way. We're gonna need a little more effort. I am not blind here, but I firmly believe that this is a step in the right direction, and I hope that this step will not remain the only one that will continue in the future. Now, for the opponents of debarcation, my personal opinion that they want status quo, to act in a fog, which is good for the policy of the past, but not good for young, young families, for working people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Each of you, citizens and citizens, as well as colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber, has already had some bad experience. Let's cut the Gordy knot, support the law on debirocracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mark Bandelli has the word, and he will be discussed by Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. I don't have much to say or talk about here, because there's not much about debirocraticism. Frankly, here we saw what was foretold, all that we were saying, what was being said about everything that was going to happen, after a year and a half, we have a law on the table that I don't even know why the law is, because it could change very easily, everything that was done. [[…]] But all the key. Simplification and release of bureaucratic pressures, that is, debirocratisation, if you say so. In fact, let's start working in a simpler way that people who are watching us understand what this is all about. No one understands that expression, what it means, is so complicated. But that's right, that's the facts. Here you boast that at this moment there is a law that relieves the pressure of bureaucracy. If I look at the whole list of things that have been done here, a lot of things are totally lame or marginally important. I know that it is important for the agrarian community to represent a taxable person as an agrarian community. What does this do to other people? What does this help in general? What kind of help is this going to give? And I welcome that because I know what this is all about. Good thing, and I'll also confirm that this is a good thing here. But one would think of debarcation, the law as such, that he could simplify his business, his economy, his craftsmanship, too, I look at it from that point of view. But it's nothing; none of what we've been talking about here. For example, importers, those who do not work with this, those who import. Do you know what bureaucratic obstacles they have here? The packaging itself, keeping records, keeping papers, reporting on customs, and other places. God forbid you have mineral oils or synthetic oils because you have to share other things. That's 35 forms, you have to have one employee to keep a record! Where else is the sale, then the profit at the end! These are the real problems that people who are working, not working administratively in some public administration, who do not know what this is about, but it is also very important there, because there was also the goal of simplifying things in public administration. But if we look at the economy, as I've heard from my colleagues in the SDS, it'll be a new impetus to the economy or I don't know what. Well, what's the rush if it's for the economy with this law? What's that? You can see inside what it is, because it's nothing like that. You promised a reduction in income tax and so on – 17.5 was foreseen for 25 and everything it is. Okay, let's leave it at that, because we weren't there for that either. But you know what the biggest problem is? Rent. That was promised. Rent. It's not transmitting. Do you know why he's not giving himself up? The real estate of the disloyal, huge, in Ljubljana we have a list of properties, huge estates of the disloyal. And you wonder why. Are you wondering that most likely the property tax, the capital tax, is a little too high? And the rent is too high and people don't get what they want. Normalized expenditure and everything that's new now, if it's 15 to 10 and all that stuff, well, I'm not even gonna say it, because people don't even know what it's about, I don't think it's connected. But debirocratization also means relaxation, really relaxation of the system. Some simplification of words, of procedures like that. Now I don't know who bragged about the boni, Ma, I'm gonna let this thing stop. What were the colloquies that were so that you could enforce the vouchers that you got them, that you had to book them on the iPad, look at the results, and you don't know if they are or aren't. I think so! We don't know how to do something simple. We always have to make things complicated. That was the point. I had a lot of hope because there was so much publicity about it. You've advertised this matter so much, it's also been on your electoral program that you're going to take care of this case here. In the end, you introduced one law, where in any case something is done, not without it, because normally, it would be absurd to say it wasn't any of it. I'm the first to say that every thing is, but it's not even far from what was promised, and that's the biggest problem. That's all. You know, I've given you some examples to describe. You don't even know, for example, that you have to be in the cash register when you're in the store. Why does a cashier have to be registered in a store where four people are? I'll give you an example. And the punishment comes for this. This is so stupid. Not to talk about taxation. Simplification of procedures regarding dates, forms and all these things. That I wouldn't talk about travel costs, because it was also the idea to lower it, to do a one-time thing. It's a debirocratization for each and every one of us. Like stupid travel costs already for us who come to the National Assembly. You have to have one college to understand how it's accounted for. I mean, in this case and there's plenty of that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's too bad I don't have any more time, but otherwise I'd say a lot more. It's on my side. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Each thing begins with the first step. We're talking about the first step. Now I give the word to Franz Breznik, and he'll get the word for it, Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! So, I would like to return my debate to the very essence of, that is, the de-de-barcation law itself, of this first step. And I would like to say that the law on debarcation is the beginning of some process that will have a continuation in numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and will be some process that will run. If you start a process, if you see what documentation you have received, then the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill, as you know, for the majority, as well as in the opinion of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, most entrepreneurs consider that one of the biggest obstacles to the better business environment itself is huge and imprudent bureaucracy in Slovenia. I will add to this: a comma, “and bureaucratic thinking, which is the result of the education and education of the decade in the Slovenian space”. What's important about this is that we start doing some analysis first. So you have an extraordinary density of regulations in the material, I won't repeat them, my colleagues told me in a nice way, at least those colleagues in the SDS and NSI, how many rules we have are marked. We have five different labelling systems: applicable rules, applicable rules, not yet applicable, non-applicable rules, non-applicable rules, invalid rules applicable and invalid rules. So, we have a lot of this, and in this context, the proposal for a law is to improve the situation in Slovenia with regard to administrative barriers, and in particular to improve the competitive environment. We have to get back to that. And today we are at the first point and this point will have a number of sequels. Above all, it is necessary to know that the proposal for a law contains substantive measures for demobilization and this is also written as one of the basic objectives of the current government. The first set of measures includes amendments and additions to the law with simple solutions that do not require systematic legislative changes. This is the answer to all those who did not know how to tell the Secretary of State, even though she did not know the procedure which article of the Constitution is at risk by this law. Above all, it would be very interesting if you told her in the first reading that you agree and that you have some answers from your parliamentary groups; therefore, that you have some amendments prepared because you think that some things could be supplemented, improved and so on. I have not heard any of this today, one criticism that has gathered this bureaucratic thought in Slovenia in recent decades. Typical critique and nothing of ever showed. Another matter, or a third matter to be said, is, and some of you have talked about it, a nomotechnic practice so far that does not repeal rules that no longer apply. This manna of having some kind of nomotechnic practice is that the rules that are totally not being applied to not rejecting them. Someone today, I think Comrade Duck, has explained that in fact they would have abolished Roman law. I answer that you have abolished Roman law the most and showed your attitude towards Roman law by showing the door in a grave way to the then candidate for a constitutional judge, academic, two-time doctor of science, Janez Kranjc, one of the greatest experts in Roman law in Europe. With that, you've said everything you all think of Roman law. And when someone speaks, as a colleague of Trček, of Justinian codification, as far as I know Roman law in view of the fact that I made this exam with Mr Kranjc, I know, at least that I learned at the time that Justinian's codification, which, as an interesting thing, was adopted during the Byzantine Emperor Justinian's time, that it had also repealed the three codes of imperial law in 529 of our census. So at a time when the Western Roman Empire had collapsed because they all loved each other because they had abolished the army because there were more plagues that had killed a large part of the population of the Western Roman Empire, where men were married to men — not to explain, and I am trying to pull a parallel to decadent Europe at that time. So Justinian's codification was itself a new system that literally did, I could say, regulate more transparent Roman law by essentially abolishing the completion of the Code, the Imperial Code, in Roman law. And as an interesting thing to say, as far as I can remember. All that someone was using at the time, that is to say, everything that wasn't in Justinian's codification and someone was using those Roman, imperial codes. If they were not prescribed in Justinian's codification, they did not apply. So, a procedure of some legal rules has begun, which Europe knows today as such or as a European legal order. To go to the system itself or to the law itself. The solutions proposed are to simplify at least 14 laws: the Residence Registration Act, the Central Population Register Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Civil Servants Act, the Legal Procedure, the Judicial Experts Act and so on, including the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act and the Official Journal Act. Thus, respected colleagues, 207 laws are repealed and all the regulations issued on the basis of them are appropriate. This proposal also provides for the cessation of the application of 18 federal Yugoslav laws, respected colleagues. The law introduces a procedure for determining which rules are no longer applicable due to their address, purpose, meaning or content. Tell me, but you think it's something bad, pal. Does that seem bad to you? Before we begin to talk and before you start to repeat what I said eight years ago about the digital staff of Slovenia or the world or Europe, what will come or what will happen five years ago, we first need to establish a register and literally shut down everything that is no longer in use. Here I see some beginning of some red tape, a change also of some of the nomotechnical rules that I think were very, I would call it, strange. The fact that the nomotechnic practice has so far failed to repeal rules that no longer apply to me is, in all likelihood, a matter that does not drink water at all. Thus, dear colleagues, in the documentation itself, you can see that similar practices are being done by all countries that want to improve their business environment and eradicate bureaucratic thinking. You have the case of Denmark, you have the case of Canada, you have the case of Portugal and so on, the United Kingdom, the Swiss Federation. So there's a new beginning ahead of us. Between 2004 and 2008, the first Janševa government began to modernise the public administration at that time. The modernisation of public administration began or was then also started with technologies that the world knew at the time, but that was the expansion of the Internet, the integration of certain technologies. And even then that modernisation of the public administration had special bureaucratic filters – if you remember, everyone who may have ever worked in law schools or any other social exam from the modernisation of public law – as an example of one really good practice in this area. In 2020, 2021, during the digital revolution or in the 4th Industrial Revolution, whose general name is digitisation, this is the beginning, some first step towards being able to connect some databases even more, so that entrepreneurs, who will start anything, can work or set up a new company to get this service – citizens, as many people say – even public and state administrations, that this will be collected in one place. Big data analysis, respected colleagues, artificial intelligence, the Internet, things and all those technologies that are urgently needed for demobilization will hardly be able to appear and implement in practice in this way. What we are talking about today, which is the first step, is that Slovenia attracts a whole range of high tech companies in Slovenia, a number of companies that will shape the fate of the time and space in which we live. The time of the 4th Industrial Revolution is once again when the cards are mainly in sovereignty, at a time, I could say, economic sovereignty is mixing these cards completely into a new one. We must be aware that this time, if we do not gain, if we take any steps and listen to your excuses, that you are afraid of some changes I do not know if we will all be afraid, then we should all leave this national assembly together. [[…]] There were always people who had a vision of creation; either in their private field or vision of creating some beautiful, good, quality countries, then, look, you have to have some courage besides knowledge. I think the combination of knowledge and courage can lead people forward. And here I see one optimistic step towards this and I don't see any bad things at this first step to take this step. If you have any concerns - and it is right to have them - it is also your job to open our eyes - to make an argument about what is wrong, to correct them, to make certain amendments and to improve this law in this first step. All that will follow then, look, there must be room — I would call it — to argue against the argument and to put Slovenia on a new train. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that Slovenia in the 21st century, as well as citizens and citizens of the 21st century, see their destiny as they look at politics, including that we will be able to unify ourselves in some of our country's objectives. And the breakthrough in the Fourth Industrial Revolution for this government, especially for my client, which I represent, is one of the fundamental objectives at this time. One of the fundamental goals of this time! Such a time, if we miss it, we will take Slovenia to a colleague in the next 50 years or we will have a breakthrough in Slovenia so that they can have a quality life of Slovenia and Slovenians for the next decades. It's important to me that we muster up the courage to take these steps. The fight against bureaucratic thinking, which I see right now in some of your debates, is the first step on this path. The second step is the adoption of the first such law on debirocratisation, which has been followed by a number of proposals from life practitioners who worked every day to combat bureaucratic thinking and who brought the law to the National Assembly in the first reading. I will conclude my debate with only one thought. Interestingly, many times when a person talks to children, such as in kindergarten, he wonders what they will be like when they are big. Sometimes we feel like he's going to drive a train, fly a plane, be a doctor, a veterinarian, fix cars, make a mess and so on. I've never heard a little kid say I want to be a bureaucrat in my life. To sit in an office and tell people what documents they should carry into this office so that they can create something or create something for themselves or for that family. Tell us what happens to these children in this system or the process of socialisation in Slovenian society that this child is finally going to study something that has absolutely nothing to do with some practical professions in life! I do not want to exclude any of these discussions, but then we can also ask ourselves about some bureaucratic thinking in the process of socialisation in the education and education system in Slovenia. From this point of view, it comes that we do not have either serious mastery education or dual education, as we call it professionally, that we have constantly fewer practical professions, that the labour market, I could say, is already shouting that we need certain profiles of staff, that we do not have them, and that Slovenia can even, in the future, be able to say, cool down on account of the fact that we will not be able to provide certain personnel to Slovenian companies and entrepreneurs. All of this is the result of bureaucratic thinking and bureaucraticism. Therefore, I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, I believe that most of you believe that this is one of Slovenia's key problems for a breakthrough moment, to sever species and that those who have been critical in your deliberations, to give themselves some initiatives, to table amendments and to improve this law after this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you. Rudi Medved has the word and will be discussed by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Apparently, the count of time began on 13 March last year when the Enlightenment Age and also the process of demobilization began on 13 March last year. And that's not the case, and I'll tell you why not. True, this law, and what happened to it, is not surprising that even some advocates of this law do not know exactly what is in it, which does not surprise me. It's today, it's not tomorrow, and it's still a bit small, and then my colleague explains how incredibly good we're going to live when we don't have to issue credit card bills anymore. This went out of the marriage, colleagues, it went out — among other things. And there was something else going on. But no, it doesn't matter, the law is good, you say, the law will make it possible for all of us to live significantly better together, and it will help to develop, it will talk about the developmental poles – I don't know which and who this law will take down the bar of development, which I don't understand in this law. But you know, the greater populism in this law is convincing people how incredibly illegal laws burden them. These laws no longer apply, but look, we have now repealed them — invalid laws. It is as if you boasted by pouring water out of an empty tub: look, now it is empty. Because you don't get the point if you're talking about debirocratization. You don't get the point, but if you don't, the founders of this law – I don't know who it was – could have read some guidance, for example, from the European Union, for the preparation of better legislation and, of course, debirocratisation at the same time. It's not about you breaking laws that don't apply anyway. The directive is for every new law to be repealed, to repeal the applicable law, which is either unnecessary or bad, for each new regulation you repeal one applicable rule, which means ballast in the legal order, only of course these rules need to be sought, which is difficult. Thus, the list of 200 laws that do not apply can be very fast on the table and the number is impressive. But to draw up a list of laws that are in force, they are legally trashed and have nothing to look for in it, whether they are bad or more laws governing the same things, which is hard work. But if, of course, the founders who had locked themselves in a circle and then smoked and had come to plan this law on debarcation, if they had allowed at least individual ministries to cooperate with them, they could have seen that a set of such laws, which must be repealed at the Ministry of Public Administration, were, of course, valid and waste the legal order. But of course this did not happen because the designers knew everything when it was necessary to present the law to the public, but they presented it to themselves and the circle was closed. So talking about burdening people because you're breaking some laws that are already invalid is really perfect populism, and this thing here in this law actually has nothing to look for. I said, of course, what should be found in this marriage. Every time we marry, we hear the familiar thing: This government does good. You have every right to believe that. I'll tell you, in the field if you want to now, de-barcation, the government of Marjana Sharca has done well. And if you think that debirocratisation started on March 13th, I'm going to count just a few things that we introduced in 2019 that concern the largest population in this country. It's an electronic hospital paper. Have you heard of him? He didn't come out of the luft. That's what we had to do. However, it saves thousands of people, doctors, employers, and employees a lot of roads, hours, and time. Digitalisation of the application to the job invitation. It's thousands, thousands of people. Electronic signing of decisions by national authorities. Electronic applications for natural protection licences. You know how many are needed for individual projects. This has been done in practice. Despite the fact that the debirocratisation started on 13 March last year, this was put into practice already in 2019, not least safely. And the emphasis is on the safe delivery of documents to the eGovernment portal. Here we stress the importance of this country's safe operation with its citizens, which, of course, is this simplification that you want to introduce with this law, there is no way. It's actually kind of a weirdo, 'cause we're not that smart. If that were to work, there'd be a lot of other countries that would have put this in place so that you'd be sending the mail a little bit after Gmail and who knows what else. And we did that in 2019. There was no fanfar, no mega marriage, nothing on our chests, we just did. Let me finish. The fact that the time of laughter begins, however, is the conclusion of a colleague, I think from the NSI, that people want thin states and this law will bring them this. I remember when I was the Minister of Public Administration myself, here in this national council to discuss the situation in public administration and employment in public administration, how I received them from you because of the enormous public administration, so that we do nothing for the lean country. Well, now you're going to be advocates of the lean state of not 6 or 60 or 600 people. And everyone will work on European projects, virtually all 600. Where you will get them to even work on European projects, I would like to see that. If I finish. It was also one of the better colleagues of Breznik that this law was the beginning of regularity in law. This is what this government says about regularity in the legislation, after we experienced nine anti-Korona bombs, where everything that anyone remembered was thrown into the mix, even more. After we have experienced thousands of decrees repealed by a large number of them in the Constitutional Court, and this coalition and this government are telling us about regularity in legislation. In fact, it is that cry for an end that a person can no longer really discuss this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Maybe just one piece of information before we proceed with the debate. In 2009, the current Minister of Public Administration, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, raised the United Nations Debirocratisation Award. This was done by the former government or the first government of Janša. You can look through the networks. We continue the debate. The text is by Predrag Baković and will be discussed by Janez Moškrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u186	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear fellows! I understand this law on debarcation as another law in a series of laws that actually affect many areas. Apparently, the government has some joy in writing some laws that are either mega-Romanian or affect many areas, such as the Zuyf, and then the Pekapei, and now this law on debirocracy. But, you know, this makes the legal order imprecise and, in fact, it's also flawed. Nevertheless, this law interferes with 14 laws, the law on the registration of residence, the central register of the population, the general administrative procedure, public servants, the judicial procedure, the judiciary, even on the integrity and prevention of corruption, the tax procedure, the preservation of nature and so on. Among other things, the law on residence registration provides that e-mail addresses and possible telephone numbers should also be provided in the central register of the population. In principle, this should not be quite wrong, but we must be aware of one thing: that the current or long-standing mistrust of citizens in the country or, if you want, in the executive and legislative branches of authorities will not actually bring about the fact that people will simply voluntarily give their phone numbers and e-mails. And I believe that in practice it will never, in some way, come to life. The bill itself states that, in view of the very nature of the tasks of religious freedom as one fundamental, constitutionally guaranteed human rights, it will be necessary to ensure a greater degree of autonomy in the performance of the tasks and therefore it is proposed that these tasks be transferred from the work area of the Ministry of Culture to the service of the Government responsible for religious communities. I don't know what this will mean in terms of administrative improvements, but perhaps here the lady from the government could comment on that too. The Law on General Administrative Procedure provides that State secretaries may decide on certain separate procedures, whether they have an education or a professional examination. Public servants who decide on the procedures shall be subject to an examination from the ZUP. In the event that this post is occupied by a person who does not have this examination, he or she must perform it or, otherwise, lose his or her employment relationship. That's why I don't know why anyone here could be favored. I understand that the Minister here will be burdened with signing decisions, but some legal options must also be met. The Public Servants Act states that it will also allow public servants to be served on official e-mail. All right, I, for one, have an insight into public servants in the field of the Ministry of the Interior or better said to the police. I know how these things were served to us. We got them through the office post office. It was never a problem. If you get a job e-mail, I don't even know if people have access from home. But if you already have it at work, you can also give it to him yourself. But it's okay. You have also touched on the law on funeral and burial activities, which in fact determines in some way if a village or a place with less than three thousand inhabitants is connected to the city cemetery, the municipality may allow for the possibility that the deceased from this place may lie at home at the request of their relatives. There's been some talk about it, but I still don't understand where the debirocracy is. But I do know that this provision can be a cost. The cost for both the concessionaire who will perform funeral services and if the municipality determines that it is also possible for the deceased to lie at home, the concessionaire — whether it is private or if it is a commune or anyone else — will have to obtain certain equipment. That's why I don't know when you were last at the funeral of someone who was lying at home. Those colleagues who are somewhere with villages know this, that a number of things need to be ensured. From some curtains, pans, whatever, panels, to cooling appliances, if that's summer. And of course these costs can be quite high. And also here, not only do I not see some added value in debirocratisation, but I see only additional obligations for the concessionaire to carry out funerals. Finally, the opinions of the congregations remain quite the same. Thus, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia says that measures do not mean actual de-de-barcation, so as not to simplify the life of citizens and the business of businesses. This is also explained by the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia. The information officer was also clear that this could be a problem. The Supreme Court also draws attention to a number of provisions of the proposed law, which are not supposed to be made up or imagined. It recalls the financial implications of the upgrade of the alerts and the need for technical support linked to a new mode of service. So this means that the cost will also rise. The Supreme Court shall also make additional proposals which are not covered by the law if these amendments are already made. For example, a change in the law on offences that this law does not touch. And then things aren't all settled together. That is why it does not seem logical to me that one law governs the sphere of 14 laws. I believe there's a lot of work to be done, but that every marriage, if it's a matter of law, let's say a residence application to make that debarcation change there. Not by one law alone, however, to regulate different areas that are in fact specially regulated in their own rules. That is why I believe that the government may have tried to prepare this for some purpose of debarcation, but I must say that it did not have a happy hand in this, at least in my opinion. That's why I won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word, and Tina Hefferle will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I can start all the time when my colleague explained how it would be necessary to have fourteen laws in order to settle these matters individually. It is here that all the stories are at stake, it is understood that certain matters can still be brought together in this legislative process. This, though, is very blasphemous for lawyers who look closely. Let us return to that debate when it was said that certain parallels could also be made by anti-Koronic laws. How were anti - coronation laws written? They were written for the purpose of aid, aid in a given situation when the economy suffered and the citizens suffered. Today, too, this law is written before us with a view to making certain matters more burdensome, simpler. If experts have been involved in anti-Korona laws, we can say, say, and see that the measures have been successful today. That is why we have become one of the most successful countries in the field of economy. Of course, you will say that some of the provisions have also been controversial, or we will come to a reduction in the legislative content, but it is also up to us citizens, each individual. He also said nicely to his colleague from the SAB how much documentation he needs for certain dangerous substances, packaging and the like. Look, actually, that's the way it is. Also because we have taken over the law and regulations of the European Union. But look what happens to us. Despite the strict conduct of certain procedures, we experience communal mud on private land. Legal content does not help us if we do not accept that a certain sentence is sufficient to understand, at least in the legal world and even in the general world. I speak the logic of a healthy farmer's mind. If a doctor uses a mask not to spread an infection for almost a hundred years, in 2021 we are doing legal science on how to handle masks if a particular matter is spreading. And the same is true of all of these proposals today. The Expert Council, the Strategic Council, which was established under the leadership of Mr Simic, has proposed much more, with several areas, because certain elements are within each individual. We get up in the morning, we take the kid to kindergarten, and so forth, they have their own company, and they see what they're dealing with in the course of one day. Desires were greater, but because of all our regulations and the legal linkage of all that has been adopted in all these 1970s, not only in the thirties, we find that what things cannot be done in an easy way. This meant that something had to be reduced because of this, and something also because they feared or wondered whether any measures related to tax legislation could have a severe impact on the tides. I will always defend, and I have always advocated that reasonable taxes, simple taxes will always bring more into the state treasury, but taking into account the general standards of each individual, citizen, entrepreneur, economic operator. I know, and also a colleague from LMŠ, who is an expert in the financial field, I would like to simplify a lot of things in accounting standards, and we see where we came from with all these stories. A while ago, the SDS also had a uniform tax rate as one of the main topics. What a pogrom! I firmly believe that this story would then bring a lot of positive results for this country. But at some point it would probably be those bureaucrats, those who had to be in the service of the state, in the service of certain institutions, so that all these regulations could be implemented, too. Are we afraid of that? Therefore, these proposals were also prepared by external experts. That's why. That's why. And let's always keep that in front of our eyes. When we were talking about personal data. The purpose of the additional data on each individual citizen, such as an e-mail address and a telephone number, was to immediately consider people changing their e-mail addresses. Perhaps an e-mail address could be set up for an individual who would establish it on a public portal, gov.si or something like that, and would be the address for a lifetime. If any of these things can be done electronically today, let's say insurance when we communicate with our parents and their parents with schools and the like, all of this can be signed with a pretty credible electronic signature today. Why should this country, as one who has to take care of its citizens, not be able to do so? But once again, it will all go away if there are billions of concerns and at the end of the day, 3% of the citizens will be willing to submit this information. But if 95% of the citizens go into the system, maybe I said too many numbers, but you know, the elderly also use these electronic devices and e-mail addresses, and we've talked in other stories that we have to describe citizens as digitally as possible. So if we connect these two together, we have a useful thing for everyday or daily or annual, monthly, weekly communication of citizens with the country. With a country that is obliged to take care of its citizens, citizens are also obliged to be part of this country and to co-create it. That's what this is about. I support, even if there are laws in several areas, we have found that something will have to be put out, because we are already close to the elections, even if there was no crisis, the opposition would be the ones who would be hard to support, would have a hundred concerns. But let's not have any doubts if we can, let's work together, I think in a lot of areas, we could improve this and it will be a guarantee for the citizens, not for us politics, but for the general good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Replica has a Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u190	Very short. When I spoke and discussed that one law was interfering in a number of areas, it was also necessary to take a look at the one implementing this law. Let's say it's specifically a central registry law on residence registration. Those implementing this law will also have to read and apply this law on debarcation every time, which may be an administrative problem. That's what I'm talking about. An additional administrative problem. He could get away with it. However, legislation must be clear and transparent. In fact, this is one of the principles of good legislation that is clear and transparent. If you, as an executor of a marriage, have to carry three laws instead of one, which is supposed to be a lex specialis, of course this is a problem. And that's what I've been discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Katja Triller Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much. A few questions have come up again, and I would like to answer them. As far as this package way of adopting laws is concerned, I think this is precisely because it has been found that this is the most effective way to regulate certain areas that go into several laws. This goes hand in hand with the need to adopt an official register, where officials can also have a simple review of the entire legal order, not just of individual laws as it has been so far. As far as the inclusion of the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act is concerned. Otherwise, the general debate is not intended to discuss individual articles of the law, so the purpose of placing this law in the law on debarcation can only be discussed in the second reading, where the government does not oppose the possibility that this article should also be deleted if this law proves to be inadequate. As far as the greater powers of the secretaries of state are concerned. In fact, this is aimed at speeding up decision-making processes. The Minister now had to sign all the decisions in the administrative procedure. The Minister, as we know, does not need a professional examination or an appropriate education to do so. In the existing regulation, it is possible for the State secretaries to sign the decision, but only those with the appropriate education and professional examination. Now this option is equivalent to that of all state secretaries who are officials. The person who will run the procedure must in any event have a professional examination. Then it's about the sense of breaking the law. Here I would correct the statement that illegal laws are being repealed. That's not true. Laws still in force are being repealed, only applied no more. The Constitution requires that laws be repealed by that State authority, which has also adopted them. It's the National Choir. The repeal must also be published in the Official Journal, allowing individuals to have a clear view on the exact date of expiry of the law. This also gives the possibility to refer to that Official Gazette where this law is mentioned. So far, however, there has been practice that laws have been reviewed in the executive branch, where they have only indicated that laws no longer apply. However, individuals have not been aware of who has made such a decision, since when such a law is no longer applicable, or whether such a decision has legal consequences. The essential difference is that now all laws are repealed in the National Assembly, that each branch of government assumes responsibility for its area of competence. You had some other questions. I believe that the National Assembly is the first and main area to be called for a debate on various current social issues, but today we are addressing the reasons, objectives and fundamental solutions of the draft law on debarcation, so I should be allowed not to respond to questions that are not related to this topic or to questions that are too general to be answered at all without further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle has the word, and she will be discussed by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. I will begin with this general debate that we have today. Madam Secretary of State, believe that we Members know the institute of general debate that we have today. How, though, can we show why a provision in your marriage does not make sense if we do not comment on the content set out in the individual articles? And also your relavitation of the fact that there is nothing wrong with public treatment in this law, because after your time it is still available, because we are at the beginning of the legislative procedure, I would just tell you that public treatment as an institution is different from the general debate we are having today. It is extremely important that public hearings with key professional stakeholders are carried out before a proposal for a legislative text is adopted, which is then submitted to the legislative procedure. By comparing these two public hearing institutes or the general debate, it is not correct and is a bit misleading. That is why we have also made it clear to you that you have not done this public hearing in the drafting of this text of the law. As far as the law is concerned, however, the debate of my colleague Rebersk made it very clear. In fact, his debate was an indicator of the content of the law, it was substantively empty, populist, and under all this pretense there was a lot of or everything else than demobilization. And that's exactly how this law really is. The title of the law does not yet reflect its content. A fellow Member boasted that you were getting Yugoslav laws out of the world. Okay, but, Your Honor, this doesn't really mean that it's a de-barcation, because in fact you're getting out of the world, if you want, laws that aren't in use anymore, and they're not actually burdening our legal system anyway. So this isn't about real debirocracy, but the law still holds that address. Although, on the other hand, it is quite the opposite of your debirocratization of the content in which you create a new register of regulations, the so-called official register, that is to say, you are duplicating or doing some parallel world with the Official Gazette, which we already have today. So you are creating a new system, even though we already have all citizens' regulations available today in a publicly accessible way, free of charge, in a transparent and logical way, we are accessing this information system. So on the contrary, you're duplicating things instead of debirocraticizing them your way. That's just nonsense or contradiction. One of the Members was concerned about those colored dots used in the legal and information system, i.e. the system where all the rules are combined. These colour spots show the status of the rule: whether it is applicable or in force or partially repealed or repealed and so on. Let me just explain when the user opens this information system, the automatic system discards the regulation that is currently in force with all the changes currently in force. It is absolutely necessary that we have all these colored dots, from purple, green to black, which is a repealed rule. Why? Because when a legal fact or legal relationship is judged before, for example, ten years ago, as we know it can be, a regulation that has been in force 10 years ago and not today must be applied. Therefore, it is still necessary to have a register, where rules that are no longer in force are also published and applied. So much for those colored dots. But if I keep going to the content of the law. What does de-de-barcation have to do with the fact that the Secretary of State will be able to issue new decisions in the administrative procedure without a ZUP examination or without a completed examination of the knowledge of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which, by the way, must be carried out by any other citizen participating in the administrative procedure, with the exception of the supervisors of the authorities? We know why he's so determined. However, I do not know why this exception would apply to all State secretaries, but if all other citizens have to pass this examination. Last but not least, it is not debarcation, but it is really about lowering standards in decision-making on rights, obligations or legal benefits in administrative procedures. And this lowering of the standard is at the expense of the citizens to whom it will be decided. This is in conflict with logic, and you can't possibly say that it's a de-de-irocracy, and you can't put such a provision in a law bearing the title of the De-irocracy Act. If I touch myself briefly, how can you link in any way with debirocratisation the content that has now fallen out, this with regard to the social cap, even if it is included in a law that is not called the Debirocracy Act, does it not really mean that it is a debirocracy? In the year and a half of your government, the government has adopted more than 2 000 700 decrees that interfered with the rights and duties of citizens. Virtually all bakeries, all 8 pecapes, regardless of their intervention nature, which we know should be time-limited, contain articles that permanently interfere with and amend sectoral legislation. And with this law, as colleague Baković has mentioned, you are also introducing an additional lack of transparency in our legal order. And that's the non-debirocracy that we should be talking about, which you should be aware of, given that with all these regulations you're creating an untransparent legal system in our country. We have previously heard in one of the debates that this law is in fact about the developmental breakthrough of Slovenia. Please, I'm really scared, I'm really afraid if this means a developmental breakthrough for you, where you're taking us. The vote against this law will certainly not be a vote against development, as said Comrade Ferryan, but it will in fact be a voice against the nebulosses you bring into our legal order by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Marijan Pojbič has the word, and only Bevk will get the word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, maybe two, three sentences about what has been said so far. We heard in the LMŠ when the real government came, then things will be handled as needed in this country. This true LMŠ government had its chance and proved what it had proved? [[…]] That at the moment when real responsibility was needed, she threw a rifle into the corn. And such people cannot convince the Slovenian people. Not even close. Believe me, this will prove to be a fact. And logically, when a good government, and this government is a good government, it proposes good solutions, the KULs are on the roof. In the end, we don't even know who the KULs are. They don't even have the identity of a real political party or a group anymore. Suddenly, they have a common enemy in their own country, and when this government that really works for people proposes good solutions, they jump up to the roof and say, whether it's people or not, we're going to bring it down. We need to get to the situation so we can take over the government. We are interested in partial, personal interests, by no means in the Slovenian people and in Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will now mention at least three key objectives that are enshrined in this law. And you'll see why. The first goal of the law. The aim of the bill is to improve the situation in Slovenia with regard to administrative obstacles and a competitive business environment. Please listen to what is written in the goals of the law. Second target. The aim is to simplify the life and business of citizens and thus contribute to reducing costs and removing administrative barriers. Third objective. The aim of the bill is to clear Slovenia's legal order by strengthening respect for the principle of legal certainty, protection of trust in law and clarity and certainty, and by strengthening the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only read three of the goals of this law. If you ask our citizens and citizens, I assure you, 99% of people are identified and signed under what I have now read, which is described as a key objective in this law. 99% of people. Now he'll explain to you why. When I meet people all over Slovenia and when people, my electorates and voters, as well as citizens and citizens call on the phone, they often warn – whether it is an entrepreneur or a natural person with whom I talk – that the hands are too long to send them from door to door, that they do not even find themselves in those who implement these rules. [[Incomprehensible]] We've been waiting too long, we've been spending too much, which is why it often happens that there is no investment in Slovenia. And so on. But now you understand why we write these solutions in this marriage. We write them to finally help these people. So they won't send them from door to door. So they won't be too long a waiting line. So they don't wait here and wait there and pay for everything on the bike. That's what entrepreneurs talk about. That's what people talk about. And we follow it in this marriage. We want and we do everything we can to help people. And we are not among those who try to destroy everything we do, but when we should take responsibility, and the tail between our legs throws the rifle into the corn. Headed by the LMSH. And today I'm listening when the real government comes. How do you imagine the real government? And you know who the real government is? People who give the highest votes at a particular party's election. And which party was that in the last election? Slovenian Democratic Party. And it is right that the Slovenian Democratic Party assumes responsibility for the leadership of this country. Everything you've done to make up this KUL government, you've done to work against the interests of Slovenes and Slovenians, and it's by force because of some personal political interests and some other, you've put together a government that hasn't lasted more than a year, and I don't know how many. So please don't do the things you've done before. Don't make any mistakes! You have the opportunity, say your opinion, co-form this legislation in such a way that it will be the best, not written on the skin of anyone, but the best. We're doing this with those goals that I quoted earlier from the marriage. Everyone who is in this National Assembly, regardless of which political party you have been elected, please think and work in this direction. You have the right to have an opinion, you have the right to express your opinion, and you do not speak at all about which government is the right one, which is not. You don't have that right. It's up to people and no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, it is useful for the state to debirocratise itself in saying so, because we have a lot of regulations, much more than would be necessary. Previously, some coalition MPs boasted that this law also abolishes a large number of laws, even the laws of the previous country, and they have marked this as not knowing how this law and this government have achieved in particular that the previous governments could not do so. I'm just going to say on one occasion that it's pure, so to speak in a simple language, with no connection or bluff. We know what bluffing in taroc cards means when you want to prove you've got poker aces and you've got a couple of weeks. Among these laws, the law on the mercury mine Idri of 1979 was repealed. I don't know why the repeal of this law would be a special achievement, but if it doesn't have any content at all. It is simply a simple deletion of a law that is practically gone and was also adopted when it was adopted only for a certain purpose and for a certain period, for 1979 and for 1980. But problems with the mercury mine in Idria or with this mine are still ongoing. When I asked Minister Zdravko Počivalska last year about the rehabilitation of mining damage, the Minister replied that the Ministry of Economic Development and Mining Technology no longer directly financed because the destruction of the mercury mine Idrija as a company ceased to operate the entity that would directly cause this damage. And that's how the minister did Pilately wash his hands. This is something similar to the repeal of the law on mercury mines. And this coalition says it's some special achievement of this government. It's a simple bluff, by the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is given by Primož Siter and will be discussed by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! So before us is the law on debarcation, one such complex system of solutions that should help us to have citizens and citizens fight the mill of the country, with the state apparatus and so on, or if I banalise on one plastic display, one diabetes that the government promises in this context, ways to ensure that the postman can text us and that we do not have to go to the post office after the certificate and so on and so on. But it is a marriage called such a loving omnibus or a mega-law because it interferes with its hunters with thousands of other titles in legal order because it changes or interferes with a host of other laws for its operation or for its enforcement. I think it's on the list as far as we said, 10 or 11. The Debarcation Act, which we have on the table today, interferes with the following laws: Law on Registration of Residence, Law on General Administrative Procedure, Law on Public Servants, Law on Judicial Procedure, Law on Judicial Experts, Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, Law on Tax Procedure, Law on Agricultural Lands, Law on Conservation of Nature, Law on Sport, Law on Realisation of Public Interest in Culture and Law on the Official Journal. So it's one of these mega-legislatures that actually interferes with all of these areas. This is not the first time the government comes before a national assembly with one law that affects so many areas. At this time of anti-Korona laws, we Members and Members have already had the opportunity to have some such laws on the table and to discuss and decide on them. I, not as a co-former, but as an external observer of these laws, see in their formation that both anti-coron laws and this current law on de-de-irocracy essentially come with two tasks. The first task is to create chaos in the legal order. Create chaos that is diametrically opposite to what this law on debirocratisation claims when it claims to aspire to some simplicity. In fact, he wants to complicate the legal order to the point that we will no longer know where we are and what we need to rely on. That marriage brings chaos, to me, also very interesting, if I'm not mistaken, government legal service. In this sense, this law is one such embodiment of everything that the government has already served — decrees, laws, measures that no one understands, in a way that no one will understand them in the future. It's one thing, it's the real creation of some kind of chaos in the legal order. Another thing, the second goal that I understand is that it comes with such and with this law, is again in the spirit of antichrist laws. There is one system of arsonists who have no connection with the purpose of this law itself. As in the anti-Korona packages, we have had the opportunity to monitor a set of measures which, by protecting public health or by restoring the economy, social recovery, preserving the social state, we see also in this law, in this omnibus, in the great general law, that they have nothing to do with actual de-de-irocracy or facilitating the lives of people in relation to the trade of the country, state institutions and so on. It's about throwing out one of the smoke curtains that something can happen on the political floor, selling one story so that another can be realized. One such attempt to pay attention or create a smoke screen is, today we have heard about it, a new register of regulations. This is one such very interesting story or the introduction of a new official register of rules is an interesting story first because it is a project that costs 780 000 euros, a good three-quarters million euros. And given that we already have a similar issue in the form of a legal and information system portal, the purpose of this new project is to establish a new official register of regulations in essence just to ensure a new deal. And it is not a coincidence that such services are provided, so it is the company involved in establishing such a register that is linked to the author of this law. Simply put, someone came to the government, said, "let's make one law that will provide the company associated with me with 780 000 euros." Mr Ivan Simič, Head of the entire government debirocratic project. 780 thousand euros. I will not translate into which successful social policies could translate this sum. We are talking so much about the thousand minimum wages that Mr Simič has, in his own words, made with one such government project. Then another thing, to which I am extremely critical, is within this law an intervention into the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Article 113, in order to delete that the Minister is linked to the opinion of the expert commission when deciding on the project and programme financing of cultural projects. The Ministry of Culture has a professional committee of experts, which advises, proposes and directs the Minister to confirm the financing of certain non-governmental cultural and artistic projects. The Minister is then bound to respect this opinion. Now this provision is deleted. In other words, here we have Mr Vask Simoniti, who has his preferences, who has his minuses and benefits in the sight of the cultural landscape and let him decide for himself who he will give public funds to culture and art and to whom he will not. Apparently, at the Ministry of Culture, they decided to give even more money to culturers who are ideologically or ideically-politically, if you like, or businessly, closer than those who are critical to the current government in their cultural creation, such as, by the way, NGOs on Metelkov 6 or Zlatan Čordić and so on. All those who have publicly criticized this government's policy. So it is very difficult for respected colleagues and colleagues to say a step towards debirocraticisation of the country, or it is very difficult to look for parallels or common nouns with actual debirocratisation or improvement of the situation of citizens and citizens. Clearly, however, it is once again the exploitation of a meta of law or of a mere law, an omnibus of law that interferes with a number of laws to conceal the actual purpose that the government obviously has for such a legal action. At this point, I will also mention that the current Ministry of Culture does not exactly celebrate its fertility in the production of other legal materials, which in one way or another would really help cultural production or culturers in their creation and social situation. I think that, if I am not mistaken, not on the fingers of one hand, but on the finger of one finger I can count the number of actual proposals that came from the Ministry of Culture in this mandate. Such a change as we have today, in this part concerning the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture would easily submit to the law on the realization of the public interest in culture by normal procedure as a separate legal proposal and would be treated as such. The Ministry of Culture could then be commended in this mandate for the two proposals it has served in this mandate. But obviously, and with this, Madam Vice-President, I will conclude my debate. Apparently, at this point, which touches the Ministry of Culture and Culture and at all other levels of this law, it tries to easily, but visibly, to scan public funds into private pockets that are close to an ideal, political or business ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Katja Triller Vrtovec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. I would respond to the statement that the law brings chaos to Slovenia's legal order. That's not true. The law does not bring chaos, but at the 30th anniversary of the existence of the Slovenian state for the first time establishes a solid structure of the entire legal order, which we have not yet known. But they know her abroad. For example, good practice from the United States knows the United States code, where 34 chapters summarise all federal legislation and they do not quote laws after changes as we do, but quote according to the situation in this legal order, that is structural. I'd also respond to the evidence that it's a double register. That's not true either. It's actually an upgrade to the Official Journal. The official register will be in the management of the Official Journal when it has already been said, which already has several collections. Thus the amendments to the laws are published in the operative part of the Official Journal, for example, invitations to tender shall be published in public works, the ratification laws of international treaties shall be published in the Official Journal of the International Treaty, and the possibility will now be added to the addition of the possibility that the officially purified texts of the laws will be published in a separate digitalised collection. So far, however, these officially refined texts have been published in this regulatory work. Nor does it hold that such a register is already contained in the legal and information system. It is true that this legal and information system is publicly and free of charge on websites, but it does not apply to the principle of trust as it will apply to the official register. Therefore, each individual is responsible for any error in linking the novels with the basic texts, but not for the competent professional service. Here we want to take this responsibility to the country which has also adopted these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Replica Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much. First, on the upgrade of the existing Official Journal. Even if it is an upgrade to the existing Official Journal, it is a project that weighs 780 000 euros and this amount of public money goes into the pocket of the writer of this bill. Second thing. And I'm going to quote in a few sentences the government's legal service. “In the workplace, we believe that the idea of implementing such a proposal does not comply with the desire for de-de-irocratisation, but even less so with the objective of a smaller number of adopted rules.” They add, "the reduction of the number and scope of the rules would be influenced by a prudent counter-decision, which are those social relations which necessarily require regulation at regulatory level or which are those which are more efficient and more prudent in the spirit of de-de-barcation in other ways." It's from the government's legal service. So much for the consideration or, yes, for the consideration of how proposed, proposed legal matter comes to the map of the Slovenian legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Lidija Dijak Mirnik has the word, and she will be given the word Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good evening to all representatives or representatives of the Government and other colleagues! For quite some time now, this debate has been going on and on, except, of course, for coalition partners, that it is not a law on debirocratisation, but a law on creating a huge confusion. 14 laws are falling into one mega, and I don't want to start here talking about Zuyph and all those nebulos that we've been fixing for years. And that's something like that. You're talking about debarcation, but at the same time you're setting up a new office, with new bureaucrats that you obviously don't have the best opinion about, at least if we listen to Mr. Breznik. But it doesn't matter, you're going to be your sixth or I don't know how many new ones you're going to set up. These are the double criteria you're going. This is essentially a trend towards creating legal uncertainty and reducing the legal security of people. That's essentially what this mega-legislative is about. Since the proposal does not include, for the first time, any reduction in the number of state authorities, but is increasing as we have said, and secondly, it does not prescribe a substantial reduction in some bureaucratic procedures that would then enable people to do what you are explaining here. So it's basically nothing. Two things are very clear about this. For the first time, you did not ask any questions to the public concerned, because you know absolutely everything. So the exclusion of the public and the stakeholders. And it's interesting that the government's law department basically broke this law. Look, the government's law service broke the law and found it to be constitutionally controversial in many places, harmful to the country and also financially burdensome. But it's nobody's fault. This is what we received today at the table, and this is likely to be voted on. Which is basically a disaster. And secondly, what's even more horrifying about the whole story is that you didn't even let your ministries in, so to speak. Because everyone told you in a row that this is just a little too ticklish and maybe you should really review things a little bit more professionally. But who cares?Oh, my God! Because in a law that is supposed to facilitate the everyday life of citizens, citizens have neither the right to say nor to co-form it, because it is the only authority that knows what is good for you, and life will together provide us with a strategic council for debarcation, for which we do not even know on what basis it works and to whom, except in this case, the Prime Minister, will be responsible. The strategic world has power, but it has no responsibility. Bravo. [[clapping]] Great. This is the world you want. And that's obviously your system of government, which is what you love every day, of course, you prove. I will only briefly define myself to some of the things that I am also professionally covering are culture. Primaj already said something about it. The proposal, as set out in Article 113, is aimed only and exclusively at reducing the expertise in the distribution of public funds. And that's essentially the essence of it in this mega-law, where, after some accident, in the notes, culture also found itself. Why? Because the proposal for amendments seeks to centralise the role of the Minister for Culture in the allocation of funds and to exclude the opinion of the expert commissions. That's the essence of this quasi-debarcation you're going through. It's about the power being concentrated in the hands of the Minister for Culture. Now we all know what his attitude is to NGOs, and we also know how this cultural minister behaves culturally. I cannot help but say here that in the government of Marjana Sharca we have strengthened the influence of the expert commissions. We gave them even more power because we thought it was important that the profession tell us which project actually deserved to be financed from public funds. But this government, this minister, wants these expert commissions to do nothing. And this is actually an unacceptable policy in culture, and this is the attitude towards the professional public in the culture of this government. But I have to admit that one thing I found in this marriage is good, but it touches the law on sports. Article 39 of the proposal states that double checking of the same conditions is abolished, which was an unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle to registration procedures at the Ministry. This is something that really serves as the title of this law is called debarcation. And that's a good thing. It's just one nice thing about this whole marriage. Otherwise, in the LMŠ, taking into account the ignorant attitude of the current authorities towards all those who have to participate in the drafting of legislation in normal parliamentary democracy, we can only find that we are obviously an administrative burden for the government of Janez Janša. Notwithstanding the potential illegality and the constitutional controversy of many of the articles of this Act, the bill itself is fully constitutionally contested in Article 44 of the Constitution, which provides that every citizen has the right to participate directly or through elected representatives in the management of public affairs. That's how you break a lot of laws in this country. Without shame, in fact, and without any public debate, without the participation of the profession, even without its own ministries, without social dialogue, there has been a law that concerns any of us. And that's every day. The public debate is a standard that we have long considered in this society to have, and I find it rather frightening that we have fallen into a situation where obviously the government or, in fact, even worse, bureaucrats in the government themselves or in the Cabinet of Prime Minister write down some laws that no one will ever sign in the end. But here I am sending some lady who has to defend it here. I'd be embarrassed to defend it, especially if I was a lawyer by profession. But okay. I'd say every man wears his own cross. The most horrifying story in the whole story is that this will really concern all citizens of this Slovenia. The most terrifying thing is that this is going to have to be fixed again. And the most terrifying thing is that it serves the common bluff. That's why, of course, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I'm just going to give you the following applications. The next is Boštjan Koražija, followed by Daniel Krivec, Iva Dimic and finally by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. That's what's left of the list of applicants. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u208	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm just going to relate to Mrs. Katja Triller Vrtovec, because I also appreciate her very much and I know what work she was doing or doing in the Legislative and Legal Service. And what I'm actually seeing all along, and I also think it's already repeating in this national assembly as some kind of laymot that experts in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister are actually being evaluated. I'm sorry. I would also like experts working with the Prime Minister to have the courage to oppose several times his ideas and wishes, which often have nothing to do with just his expertise, but are in fact just his visions or visions, and unfortunately nothing with his expertise. In fact, this law is constitutionally controversial. In fact, it is also harmful for the country and it is also financially burdensome to propose a law and, in fact, it does not have much to do with de-de-irocracy. I will also refer to Mr Pojbič of the SDS Group, and also in the Group of Members, many times repeat this mantra that someone has thrown a rifle into the corn. I'm afraid the government has actually thrown a rifle into the corn in this debirocracy law. I have been monitoring the whole event, including Mrs Triller Vrtovec and its implementation on the committee, and it seemed to me that she was trapped in some kind of intersection, how to defend some political form and how to actually stay at some professional level. As has already been said, the problem is that the professions unfortunately too often in this government are cutting their wings and making it impossible for them to run matters independently and democratically and legally and legally as they should in every democratic country. The next problem already mentioned today is that the debate on this law itself took place intransparency. Thus, the public was not included in the way it should have been, in fact, excluded. This has also been pointed out by various experts from other roof networks or NGOs that there was in fact no real communication, not just a desire for some dialogue in terms of the profession - public, public - profession. And, yes, in fact, what has been seen in this proposal of the law on debarcation is, indeed, that these packaging packages, which were adopted in the previous year and also something else this year, are somehow legalized in this law. At least that was how it was read in this proposal. In fact, with the first really megalomanic approach, he has always grown stronger or lost weight or has always lost focus on debirocracy itself. I'm sorry. I'm going to go straight to one more thing, because I know you know her very well, given that you're a doctor, and I don't know what it's like now, but I know that you've even been teaching at college for a while, if I remember correctly, because I've been reading your articles, too. See, in the explanation of this law, the proponent, you said, wrote: “The proposed arrangement also takes into account all service providers on a secure electronic address, respects the privacy of the individual and also allows him to judge for himself which values, simple or safe, give priority.” However, given the way the mail was being picked up, even by the Prime Minister, it is unfortunately also some sort of syndrome in this government that does not raise or raise any mail too late, or does not rise at all, I am afraid that even in this case there would be some anomalies, or some possibilities, exits or non-receiving of mail through this secure mail. As you know, the Law on General Administrative Procedure already regulates the service in safe electronic drawers. But I personally see no solution in that, in the name of efficiency, you endanger the security of communication, but the spread of consciousness among the population. The delivery of court mail in these safe drawers was only possible because of myself, I will say, an epidemic of covida-19 and I fear that it is not a wise idea that this would become some constant in these procedures or in the general administrative procedure, as I am afraid there would be additional potential for abuse of such and different ones. And it is right that people have arranged, even after this general administrative procedure, the possibility of receiving this court mail. Before that, my colleague Siter spoke about the Ministry of Culture, because, in fact, it is a matter of fact, I will say that the boundaries are in fact rather a bit of bizarre, that there are some laws, regulations that are actually confused in one basket. It also means that, not only are the cleavages of the laws to be erased or otherwise, but that they really are arranged in such a way that they are truly acceptable to individuals or users, and that they are primarily allowed to access and apply these laws or regulations. As I said at the outset, I am afraid that you, as an expert or as an expert, did not throw your rifles into the corn because I would not want this country to follow paths we do not want, is said to be subject to the profession and in fact to only a particular political objective or even an individual. I can personally say, I don't know how my political career will go any further, I have no idea, but I do want to, no matter how things happen, that in Slovenia politics will finally begin to understand that politics should be a support for experts, experts we have a long way or a lot, not that they are essentially deprived of the legal right and democratic right to use expertise and expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I still have Ivo Dimic on the list, and she's not. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the government representative, State Secretary Dr Katja Triller Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Today's debate has given me the feeling that there has been more debate on how de-barcation cannot be pursued than on the concrete measures taken by the Strategic Council for De-Berbration, and the Government has submitted them to the National Assembly. Notwithstanding the fact that our attention is focused in different directions and that we have different views on many social issues, I believe that the proposed proposal for a law on debarcation is good and useful for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for its economic growth and for strengthening the rule of law. I would therefore like you to support the proposal of the law with the solutions contained in it when you vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. There's another application. If she also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also apply. So, we have two applications. First Moja Škrynjar and then the secretary of state. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Today, we are considering the law on debarcation. I think that this law is just the beginning of a thorough process that will have to continue. Our country and governance with the country are thoroughly pooled. Let me just say a case from school. In school, you have curriculums in which you have a written standard of knowledge for primary school, and for high school you have registered competences or expected accomplishments. But the truth is, it's the same thing. The text of the program means something completely different in the education system in kindergarten than in primary school or in high school or in higher education. Terminology is not consistent, it's confused. If you take the students to the theatre school, it will be a cultural day, if you take them to the theater in high school, it will be a mandatory selection content, and if these students are in high school or vocational school and go to the theater, it will be called an interesting activity. This conceptual confusion is only the tip of an icy mountain, which indicates the feudalization of areas where certain bureaucrats have taken over areas and designed them. Today we have also considered the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, a small change, but this law now has more than 180 articles and I think 60 pages. In the beginning, the so-called ZOFVI was a long few pages. And yet, the schools were in operation. How? At the beginning of our country, we inherited old curricula, but they included at least two large books for elementary school. Today, if we put them on this bench, a meter and a half wouldn't be enough. Is our knowledge or knowledge of our children, students, students better? I think that this feudalization of the materials has also caused bureaucracy, and then bureaucracy is also hampering the content. The predecessors spoke of the inexorability of marriage, yet it is difficult to speak of those critics deepening into marriage. In particular, Mr Rudi Medved criticised the solution that the Secretary of State would also sign certain decrees and that the Minister would be burdened with responsibilities. Mr Rudi Medved was the Minister of Public Administration and, in fact, the Law on State Administration is precisely within this jurisdiction. This law under Article 17 states in paragraph 3 that the Minister may authorise his secretary of state for a variety of matters, but that this does not burden him with responsibility. I mean, if things were to be simplified, then the ministers would be able to handle something more. In this way, bureaucrats are sometimes feudalizing their areas. And it's not just the ministries, it's also some public institutions. I don't want them listed so I don't hurt anybody. I think that this law will also have to be followed by sectoral laws and simplifications, human orientation, not the resort. The government will have to start trust and trust will be followed by responsibility. Without this demobilization, we will not fully achieve it. Of course I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Another word from Dr. Katji Triller Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you very much. To conclude, I would also like to point out that the proposed law is only the first step towards de-de-iractisation of the country. It is known that it is most difficult to take the first step, so I want you to muster the courage to take this first step towards a globally competitive Slovenia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.07 p.m. and resumed at 19.39 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, when we calm down, we will continue with the meeting of the assembly. Thank you. The national assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 5, 6, 4, 13, 2, 10, 11, 7, 8, 9 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the voting of our devices. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 79 votes against one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Assistance in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 October. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 3(1). Mr Siter will explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Left Group, where we are also architects of this amendment, we are advocates of personal assistance as universally accessible services, which is therefore accessible to all who need it, regardless of their situation. If we want to provide personal assistance to everyone who needs it, we need to look at it in full, and we need to take care of all the factors that they are actually creating in this area. So for the operators, the institutions they run, for the users themselves and also for the personal assistants. As far as performers are concerned, one such global system solution would be one of the roof public institutions that would regulate personal assistance across the entire map, universally, for all who would need it. But today, unfortunately, this solution is not in the plan. On the other hand, we save two other important addresses. The users themselves first. With this amendment, we propose that a maximum of one family member may perform the task of a personal assistant. Why? One of the problems that arises here is the conflict between the income of a family, which is often used in this direction, and only the need of an individual for psychosocial development and its inclusion in society. It is also important for an individual and for a user of personal assistance to extend his social circle outside the family. Finally, with this amendment, we are addressing a key problem in the area of personal assistants themselves. The work they do is not work, it is hard to work and it is more than a mission or mission that takes on a lot of work, effort, time, and it is only right from this title to offer personal assistants social security in the form of regular employment with everything that comes with regular employment: leave, sick leave, regression and so on, that is, everything that is self-determined under labour law on a regular basis to an employee. From this title we call no additional exaggeration and market logic in this area. On behalf of the Members and Members of the Left, I announce that we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs Nataša Sukič has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive law and we need to see the whole thing. So it must be seen that people who perform personal assistance do extremely hard work, garage work, both physically and psychologically hard work. When it comes to a 40-hour worker, when it comes to all the elements which, by law, essentially speak of work that requires the full employment of these persons, but not that these persons are self-employed and then pay their own contributions, they do not have the right to patients, as they are employed, who do not have paid leave, have no recourse. Imagine that we, Members and Members, would work in this way. Would you? I wouldn't. This work is extremely underpaid and extremely tiring. This law, however, literally compels them to pre-carry, which is totally contrary to the applicable labour law. As for proposing one family member instead of two, see, the autonomous independent life of disabled persons is an extremely important dimension, and family members are not necessarily friends, they are not necessarily those who can have their own affairs intimately. Therefore, it is important that family members are not those who then sit on it and prevent that person from obtaining a third party as a personal assistant. That's why I'm asking you to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Before we vote on the amendment, let me read another note that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this article becomes irrelevant under number two. Now we're voting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 46. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 3(2). Mr Siter has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. In this amendment, we are close to what we have just voted on, except that the field of what we decide is a little narrow, just in this second part. So again. For personal assistants it is not about the work they do, it is about hard work, it is about the mission, it is about something that a person does not take from eight to four and stamping, but it is about work when he must always be present, repeatedly, too many hours at all times. They're doing something that deserves at least social security. Regular employment, regular employment, safe employment with all statutory standards, such as leave, the right to hospital leave, regression and so on, are the minimum, which can be made possible by some political will by a personal assistant. Personal assistants in Slovenia are about six thousand, a huge number of workers, six thousand people, who thus do not have a formally regulated status of regular employees, which is problematic in such a sensitive topic. So the amendment that we have before us suggests that personal assistants are regularly employed, with everything that comes to them under the labour law for regular employment. In the Group of the Left, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 44. (For the vote was 13.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 4 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 4 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. (For the vote was 17.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. (The vote was 69.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and to the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Articles 4 and 9 of the amended bill, and I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these two articles. I guess not. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. (For the vote was 50.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on demobilization. We are moving on to a decision on the following: The proposal for a law on demobilization is suitable for further consideration. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group first, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote against the Group of the Left. This law on debarcation is one of these so-called omnibus laws, which affect a whole bunch of others, introduce an additional mess into our legal order, all for some facade of debirocracy. If we read what the solutions to this law are, we will see that this marriage is really very petty. For example, after the new service of the decisions to public servants, it will also be possible to carry out the service mail, the certification of printed copies of the decisions by electronic signature and so on. In short, the whole marriage is so small. So you have to ask yourself what the purpose of this marriage was. The purpose of this law was to make this smoke screen with official e-mails and certified signatures and to continue to make a real transformative gesture, which was incorporated into the original of this law, and this is the so-called social cap. The coalition knows well enough that no one in Slovenia wants to, not trade unions or civil society, nor people who give anything to social justice, no one wants to pay taxes there of €6,000 further gross wages, says 0.3% of the most paid, stopped and paid from there at a fixed rate. This means that the best paid at the same time would also be at least taxed in that country. Because you knew it wouldn't just go through, you wrapped it all up in a smoke screen or you hired Ivan Simic to do it. Since you have counted enough to see that such a thing has no support in Parliament, the social cap is no longer in this proposal, and the smoke screen remains. This smoke screen is self-destructive. Like I said, these laws you touch should be corrected, not in one marriage to save 50 others. Of course, this law will leave a prize for the drafters of this Law, Ivan Simic, and it is very clear that the Government's legislative service will establish an official register for which the state will devote 780,000 euros. We already have such a register as the business legal and information register of the Republic of Slovenia, but of course 780 000 euros will probably be obtained by the drafter of this law, or his company, Mr Ivan Simič, who also led this so-called debirocratic group. So all of this failed the attempt to introduce a social cap, the mending of the legal order in Slovenia and the award for the drafter of this law. For all three reasons, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LMŠ Group, Mr Medved has an explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. In the LMŠ Group, we are convinced that, at this moment, this government would do the most to debarctify itself, to go after itself first, to look at all the legal ballast it has brought into nine anti-Korona laws, as well as many other laws, all in a row full of instigators, and to allow its own lawyers to overcome this legal mess, including a bunch of decisions, among which we find a series of unconstitutional ones. This would be the first step on the road to debarcation of society. Thus, the government is trying to bring through parliament a law that has been torn apart by ministries, as far as they can see, was torn apart by a government legislative service that has not even been officially seen. He was attacked by trade unions, consumers, the legal profession, the information officer. All of them spontaneously because the public concerned or any public was not even allowed to form a law. So on a law that is supposed to ease the everyday lives of citizens, citizens have no right to express themselves, let alone the right to co-create it. This is a law that banalises e-commerce with the country, reduces almost to Facebook level, so I will not say Twitter, which is an almost official newspaper of this government anyway. This is a law that marginalises the Official Gazette so that some company will serve with some unnecessary register of regulations. This is a law that will supposedly relieve people of the weight of 200 laws that no longer apply. So who's being charged? Instead of interfering with existing laws and regulations and following European guidelines, which are very clear, we shall abolish one valid but unnecessary or bad one for each new law. The government will therefore explain to us that the public has cooperated in the drafting of this law by presenting the law to the drafters. According to the LMŠ Group, this law will not contribute to de-de-irocratisation, but of course it sounds good. We will vote against this law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and will be allocated a proposal for a law to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since, in the second reading, the mother labour force has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 37. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Predrag Baković has an explanation of vote first on behalf of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The law on the organisation and work of the police, which we will vote on today, brings some things that would improve the status of police officers, but on the other hand, it contains extremely dangerous provisions, which allow every single politician, especially the current one in power, to fully politicise the police, both in terms of criminal investigation and recruitment at all levels of police leadership. What am I talking about? I am talking about the proposal for a fourth novel, which deletes the provision that it is considered that the Prosecutor has taken over the direction of police work in the forecasting process from the moment he was informed of the crime. If this law is adopted, the Minister will have the opportunity and the power to direct the police's work in the forecasting process. The Minister is a politician and, as such, cannot, cannot and does not know, because he is largely not an expert in this area, directing the police in the investigation of crimes. Under the Criminal Procedure Act, the Minister does not have the authority to detect perpetrators of crimes. If the Minister does so, he will intervene in a lively case and thus may also threaten the successful execution of the pro-Profession procedure under the authority of the Attorney General. As a result, the Minister will take on the role of director or direction under the law on criminal proceedings belonging to the Prosecutor. However, there is also a risk that its direction will be diametrically opposite from the later orientation of the Attorney General, and this of course constitutes a threat to the procedure itself and a threat to the investigation itself, as the interest of each policy could affect an independent and independent investigation, and this is unacceptable. However, another provision allowing police politicisation is the introduction of leadership mandates at all three levels of police: at the level of the general police administration, police administration and police stations, where the mandate will be terminated for commanders, directors and leaders at the GPU on a cut-off date. Thus, the executives will be mercifully and unkindly left to the Director-General of the Police, who will decide who will be the commander, who will be the Director of the Police Administration, who will be the Head of the Organising Unit at the GPU level. If we know that the Director-General of Police appoints and disposes of the Government on a proposal from the Minister, the picture becomes perfectly clear. The ruling policy will, by such a provision, be too much of a temptation to put loyal people in position. We must not even allow the possibility of such temptation. That is why, of course, we Social Democrats are going to vote against it, and I think it is healthy that whoever understands what I have just said will also vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The following will explain, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mrs Nataša Sukić's vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Of course, we will vote against this law, and it is absolutely necessary to vote against this law, because practically every article in it is controversial, from the fact that it legitimizes the possibility of rewarding faithful, loyal, and therefore non-professional personnel, to further restricting the right to strike and so on. Now, I'm going to limit myself to three of the most controversial, serious things that really go beyond fantasy, but Minister Hoys obviously has it at his disposal. The first is direct interference of Hojs with the police and its direction. Although we are already used to it, the fact that Minister Hojs directs the police on Twitter has not yet been taken into account by the police because it was illegal. As a result, the government is proposing changes that will legitimize the direct political direction of the police. You'll say it's a minor change, one sentence is deleted. But this sentence is essential because it is exceptional, because it is an extraordinary moment, a certain time when the powers of the minister with the direction of the police in certain cases cease and become the authority of the Attorney General. That's what somebody ever does to direct the police. Secondly, it's accessing event records. Because the media has uncovered a number of packers, including how they search the data of political opponents and the like, Hojs has simplified his life. Why don't we make this legal now? The amendment to Article 8 of the Law thus provides that police officers of the Guidance and Control Unit shall be provided with direct access to the event record. It is therefore illegal to extend the powers of officials of the Department of Internal Affairs Police Guidance and Control Unit. It points to both the ZPS and warns both police unions, but also warns the information officer. And third, indeed, the incredible dimension is the ultimate political subordination of the National Investigation Office. In the light of ensuring the inviolability of criminals of true colours, the law refers to someone other than the NPU. Since it was not different, the Director of the NPU was first unlawfully removed. Unlawful discharge of the Director, sending electronic messages with instructions on how to or not prosecute various persons at issue. Therefore, the NPU needs to be fully subordinated so that it will no longer be autonomous in the performance of all its tasks as it has been before, but only in the investigation of crimes, without the Minister breathing as a collar. Respected and respected, from the law to the law proposed by Minister Hojs, we are sinking ever deeper, so let us vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SAB Group, Mrs Maša Kociper has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u231	We will not support this law in the SAB Group. It is once again a typical law, where some welcome changes are introduced in some places, even improvements in the position of police officers at some points, but at the same time there are still some subversives hidden in it, such as an open lustration. In the already well-known and repeatedly used way, some new mandates are being defined, and at the cut-off date, the mandate will be terminated for all persons at the same time at three levels of police leadership. And, of course, this government -- another government -- will be able to name new people. And this is something that this coalition has repeatedly tried to ask itself, in the end, whether the law is being changed just to make this provision, which means simultaneously replacing everyone in certain positions. Well, it doesn't have to be everyone else. This, however, allows for some overbreeding after the taste of every government or not every time, for those who place such a change in the law in the marriage so that they can make a cut-off of the date to replace those who do not fit it. And, of course, there are additional possibilities for police politicisation, in particular this intervention in the area of directing criminal investigation, when it has been clear so far where the powers of the state prosecutor are and when they begin. These are indeed along with all that is happening, some unacceptable interventions that bring police politicisation, and this is unacceptable for us in the party SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LMŠ Group, Mr Rudi Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you very much. You have forged a law that pushes the way for the final political takeover of the Slovenian police. And not only that, it allows for the final cleansing of the police system: removal from the operational tasks of all those who are not in the will of the ruling regime. We are witnesses and will obviously also be executed in future in practice by lustration in the Slovenian police. The transformation of the police into an extended arm of the ruling policy is now a matter of law. And if we want to stop it, and we have to stop it, it's up to us here in the National Assembly to reject this law. Several times we have succeeded in stopping this power in the National Assembly, and today it is our responsibility to do so. Otherwise, he will have the current Minister of the Interior, whose tendency to resist is by no means foreign, to intervene and to monitor predictive procedures. However, there is also a risk of indirect supervision of the State's Attorney's Office. We must not put this into the hands of any internal minister, but at least the current one. Following the scolding of the National Investigation Office, this criminalist unit has now been dismantled since this government's appearance. The direct subordination of the NPU to the Criminal Police Administration and its Director is the end of the autonomy of the NPU. The Director of the NPU will no longer decide on anything, nor what the NPU will investigate at all. In practice, the National Investigation Office will no longer be, it will remain only on paper and the entire management staff in positions to the lowest levels when the law enters into force. What does that mean? It means human resources clearance to the operational management staff and the setting up of the loyal personnel authority to all positions in the police system. Therefore, this authority does not care that the police profession has reached the lowest level of trust among people, which is regrettable and police officers do not deserve to be served by citizens. 8,000 people employed in the police force are victims of this grave political interference with the police system. So let us not allow this authority to create a deepening complete gap between the people and the police. So let us reject this law. In the LMŠ Group, we will reject the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 40. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Electricity Supply under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 October. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 112. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SMC to Article 149a. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 7. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 167. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 39. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 7. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find that the decision is adopted I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to the amended 112th, 149th and 167th Articles of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that due to amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or at the meeting of the assembly in the second reading of the bill, the law would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 7. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law banning the sale of plastic products for single use under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 October. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to Article 2. Ms Maša Kociper has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u235	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we now have several amendments in this law, which in fact means that our proposal for a law is aligned with the regulation. So we are now essentially in line with these amendments so that the regulation and the law will be harmonised. Let me explain that we in the SAB Group have introduced this law when there was no regulation. In this way, we also wanted to contribute as soon as possible, and the regulation will also address the broader issue covered by the Directive. In this law, however, we have regulated the prohibition of the sale of plastic products for single use with your help, so to speak, of placing plastic products for single use on the market. We can be proud that here and there in this house we can do something really good together. Here at the legal level, we now have very well arranged that these products should not be placed on the market. The regulation will then lay down sanctions and other matters. But this is certainly a very important step towards protecting our environment, including protecting our waters. So no matter how much we do not vote on the law today if these amendments are adopted, and I hope they will, I thank everyone for their support by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. (The vote was 84.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to Article 3. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. (The vote was 84.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to Article 5.a. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. (The vote was 85.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The text of the draft law for the third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmacy Activities in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 October. We decide first on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 4. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u237	The Pharmacy Act, as it exists at this time, is something we support in Levica. It introduces two and only two. Firstly, two pharmacy velodrogerists, who are in municipal ownership, are allowed to stay in municipal property and, despite the ban on vertical connections between suppliers and pharmacies, will not be sold off to private individuals. However, another provision that we have entered into the law says that all possible surpluses arising from pharmacy activities must also be returned to the basic activity. We take medicines and their supplies as human rights, as something that is done for the needs of the community, to help people who are not healthy, and not as a normal business in which profits are generated on the burdens and needs of people. The original law wasn't like that. The original law provided for deregulation of so-called gravitational zones, so-called regulation of pharmacies, how many can we have in a particular area, who can set up, open, manage and so on. Fortunately, in the previous procedure, we pushed these provisions out of the law – “Yes!”. However, for the last time, with the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia connection, it is practically the same to return to the law. The consequences of deregulation of pharmacies and their cities in the community can be seen by many abroad. In cities, for the first time, we can expect an increase in competition, a rise in pharmacies and a consequent pressure on all pharmacies to sell more medicines just so that profits can be reversed. In the countryside, on the other hand, we can expect the closure of pharmacies because, under the pressure of competition, some pharmacies, which now exist in public or concessional form, will be without such an important financial flow for the bare operation. The only winners of this type of structure will be large individuals who will be able to monopolize drugstore activities in our country under such deregulation. And, of course, we will vote against this decision in Levica. If you, ladies and gentlemen, are concerned that some part of Slovenia is too remote from the central pharmacy even in the existing law, there are commissions allowing you to open a pharmacy branch. There is no need for deregulation if we are only honest about the supply of medicines. But if we believe in the supply of medicines as a business to be earned, then we get amendments like this to Article 4. We will vote against this amendment in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u238	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SMC Group, he shall have the word mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President of the National Assembly. We do not support the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the proposers in our SMC Group. The proposers propose a new paragraph with the content we wanted to arrange in the SMC in the first version of the amendment to the Act on Pharmacy Activities, in Article 2, to delete the word “neighbor”. It's about the congregations. With a view to this, it would be possible for all small and large municipalities to ensure a responsible and concerted presence of pharmacies in the smallest municipalities, as it is known that concessionaires do not want to open pharmacies in places after Slovenia, which do not provide profit from business. Public pharmacies, however, can also afford to open pharmacies in small or remote municipalities because of their social responsibility. We have never proposed anything that would impoverish the existing pharmacy network. On the contrary. We have always stressed that this service needs to be brought closer to its citizens in terms of accessibility. On the basis of our proposal, the problem of the small municipality of Bistrica near Sotla, which is in the far south-east of Slovenia, remains unresolved after six years. This amendment, however, is of great concern to the applicants for the possible same municipality and there is great doubt in the SMC Group about the applicant's sincere intentions. From 2015 to this day, the Ministry of Health makes it impossible to obtain a favourable solution from the Administrative Court for the Municipality of Bistrica ob Sotla that it has a pharmacy for the needs of its citizens. However, as regards the reasons for this amendment, the content referred to in Article 8(3) of the Act on the Taking of Medicinal Activities is contradictory in detail. In line with the above-mentioned and non-activity of the Ministry of Health in the field of pharmacy activities in our parliamentary group, we conclude that the SDS and Nova Slovenija have no serious intention of improving the situation on the pharmacy network at all, so we will vote against this amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups to Article 6 and point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 9a. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. I see an interest in explaining the voice. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u241	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Today, we will also make this amendment, and then, if we vote on the whole law, we will, in fact, decide on three matters. First, between public interest or capital. Secondly, between Maribor or two large wholesalers privately owned. Thirdly, between competition on the drug market or monopoly of two foreign multinationals. There's no doubt for me. My voice is about Maribor, my voice is about public interest, and my voice is about the Farmadent. I will vote against the amendment tabled by the SDS and the NSI because they speak the language of a multinational rather than the language of the municipalities, the founder of the Farmadenta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members first. On behalf of the SMC Group, he shall have the word mag. Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u243	Thank you very much again, Vice President. With the amendment tabled by the applicants to Article 6 of the proposal for a pharmacy act, they want the applicant to terminate the operation of two of his own suppliers of medicines and painkillers, which have a total market share of 30% in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the Maribor Farmadent and the Ljubljana-based LL Grossist. Their presence ensures at least minimal competition in this market and thus lower prices. What is essential is that their profits remain fully in public pharmacy institutions for their developmental needs and for the education of pharmacists. It is unreasonable and irresponsible to propose an amendment which, on the one hand, removes well-functioning own suppliers from which operations are of exclusive benefit to the local community and the public pharmacy system, as the resulting profit is returned to meeting the needs of citizens and employees. On the other hand, this amendment removes the minimum competition between suppliers and leaves the supply of medicinal products entirely to foreigners and legal persons with hidden owners. Explanation that maintaining the activities of Pharmadent and Grossista constitutes unfair competition – how can anyone even write this down if the Pharmadent has been operating since 1972 in Slovenia and Grossist since 2009? Where has all these years been unfair competition, and today this is one of the key reasons on the part of the proposer? The reference to the 2019 Constitutional Decision is simply misleading the applicant. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has found that the vertical link is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislator can change the existing regime in a way that is in line with European legislation and which enables the promotion of public health to be achieved, and pharmacies are part of public health, so that the public health sector can also generate income in this area. We therefore proposed Article 6 in the SMC, which fully follows Directive No 24 and regulates the so-called in-house public procurement. It is clearly the applicant's interest to phase out the well-functioning public pharmacy system and to place foreign pharmacy owners in its place by privatising to them all the profits. We oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Branislav Rajić on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good evening! We oppose this amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but we believe that it should be opposed by all Members of the National Assembly. This is about trying to maintain a ban on vertical connections and hand over all the profits of velegrosts, these are drug suppliers, multinationals, who in this case would also set prices and be the only suppliers of medicines in Slovenia. We have the opportunity to allow publicly owned companies to supply medicines and thus return the profits they create to the local community, municipalities, in this case we have the municipality of Maribor and Ljubljana, or to leave all of this greedily to multinationals and completely reject the possibility that we are the creators of economic gains ourselves. This seems very harmful to me, and in our Group of Members we completely reject this amendment. But we're surprised it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u246	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SAB Group, he shall have the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Madam President. Maribor celebrates the 857th anniversary of the first mention today, and since then the city has been growing and developing and has survived many challenges, from plague, fire, neglect and changes in the social system. During this time it also established an important company which ensured the development of medical science and the pharmaceutical industry. That's the Farmadent. Since 1972, the city has been growing, developing, and this company has been working for the benefit of citizens and townspeople and the wider community in general. The profits generated by the municipality invests the municipal company back in the municipal budget exclusively for the purpose of strengthening public health and prevention. This is a marriage obligation, and we are also looking forward to it in the SAB. In the SAB, we were the first to see that the law is being amended accordingly and that we have also been duly alerted to this. We have been in favour of deleting the provisions that introduce a number of concerns and controversy into the law. We have also argued that the only article that is controversial, that is, allowing the vertical connections of public institutions, remains. Once again, I call on all of us together to reject these amendments, which do not go to the benefit of strengthening public health and public good. Let us advocate that the profits of companies go back to the municipalities, founders. Let us prevent two municipalities from having to sell two companies by the end of the year to record losses. It's a forced sale in such a short time. Anyone who is reasonable strongly opposes this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD Group Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start with Maribor, then I'll go to ideology. Towards the end of World War II, so-called allies bombed Maribor 29 times. Half of it was broken. Now you want to launch the 30th bombing of Maribor by proposing this amendment to the SDS and NSI. So much for Maribor. Be enough of your patriotism. Now that's the heart of ideology. On the one hand, we have the ideology of those who say it is better to make profits from a billion 400 from one foreign corporation and mostly from domestic secret owners. Versus others who claim what their colleagues have previously said. That is also why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In our previous call to the National Assembly, we have opened up a pharmacy law as we do today. With the changes in the pharmacy area at the time, it also became legal with the active effort of the Left to prohibit the ownership of medicinal products, i.e. pharmacies, and their suppliers, and to prohibit the entire prohibition. This is logical, of course, when we talk about private capital and the private organisation of the supply of medicines. This kind of so-called vertical link makes it possible to create capital conglomerates who, from the beginning to the end of their supply of medicines, treat it as a business, as something to be earned as much as possible, and not as a vital area to be taken over by the community for the care of sick individuals and individuals with medicines. The consequences, of course, are clear. If you're selling drugs to people to make money, not because they need them, it's going to result in negative effects sooner or later, say excessive drug consumption. At the same time, with this action banning the vertical connections between pharmacies and velodrogerists, we have also pressured and warned in Levica that such a prohibition of ownership should not constitute the privatisation of drug suppliers, where they already exist in public ownership. This is the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor, the first with the supplier LL Grossist, the second with the supplier Farmadent. Unfortunately, at that time our warnings were not heard, and several times the time limit for banning vertical connections was extended. With this law, we will obviously succeed in maintaining LL Grossista and Pharmadent publicly owned for the public supply of medicines. But here too, the right-wing tribunal is trying to press the SDS and NSI at the last minute with an amendment that would prevent the holding of public ownership over drug suppliers. This is totally unacceptable, we will vote against this amendment in Levica, and from here on out, I think we should stop talking about how we will deregulation the area of pharmacy or privatise two more existing public suppliers, but how we will organise public and non-profit supply of medicines for the whole country, not just for the municipalities. Yes, pharmacies and medicines should be treated in the same way as health, as a public good and should be taken over by the State in order to be completely excluded from the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mrs. Natasa Sukić in her own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u253	I'll be very short. Look, I can't believe there's even such an amendment on our benches that would literally force our two public institutions that care about medical supplies to become prey to those two who already control 70% of the drug market. In fact, Farmadent and Grossist control almost 30% of the share, and this is where these appetites are hidden. And you who are proposing this, I don't know if you're on the public side that surpluses are coming back for the public good, for all of us, you would think that these surpluses will stay in the pockets of this corporation and that other entity that we don't even know exactly who the owners are. It's something amazing. I'll vote against it myself. And once again, it's amazing that someone hopes to propose something like this: against people, against the public good for the benefit of some multinational and some business entity, when we don't even know who the owners are. And one more thing. In health, when we talk about health, we are not talking about a free trade initiative but about ordinary economic operators. It's about health. This is a specific category and this does not go to be the same as the average with the general economic operators. I will vote against, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u255	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the government, nice greeting! Today and yesterday we all received, even though a series of e - mails from the Maribor congregation, where I obviously broke their computer, but what was important, they wrote that the city congregation, the city councillors and the saints were in agreement, listen, we were asked unanimously to allow them to continue working with their Farmadent, who is in congregation or city ownership. The idea that we will be able to siphon the minds of Mariborians here in Ljubljana is repulsive. Ljubljana has left Maribor alone too often, so please don't do this. I will therefore vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SDS and NSI members to Article 6 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 9a becomes irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, and this also concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendment adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Mag. Dušan Verbič has the floor on behalf of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u257	Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Dear Members and Members, before the vote on the proposed amendment to the Act on Pharmacy Activities, we will have an answer to the following question: do we have so much political wisdom in this National Assembly that we will take a decision to prevent foreigners from fully controlling the supply of medicines and various painkillers in the Republic of Slovenia, namely to public medical institutions, concessionaries and hospital pharmacies. Pharmacies are part of the public health system and the termination of two on the market of important Slovenian own suppliers would mean that in the Republic of Slovenia we have only foreign drug suppliers and complete dependence on foreigners. This is absolutely not the strategic interest of Slovenia, but at least minimal competition between suppliers of both foreign and domestic interests must be maintained. The fact is that on the Slovenian drug supply market we have almost four suppliers of Chemofarmation, Salus, Pharmadent and Grossist. The first two have been in foreign ownership and with hidden owners, while the other two Farmadent and Grossist have been operating Slovenian own suppliers for many years. With the continued operation of both own suppliers, at least minimal competition in the supply market in the Republic of Slovenia is ensured, resulting in lower prices for medicines and other products in pharmacies. In 2019 the Competition Protection Agency as well as the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia drew attention to this fact. Both pointed out that there was a need for greater competition between drug suppliers in order to ensure lower prices and thus greater savings in public funds for medicinal products. Therefore, Your Honor, in the SMC Group we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-20-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 37. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 1st item of the agenda, this is on questions from Members and Members. Could I have your attention, please? We will vote on the basis of a review of the decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, the Minister and ministers of 19 October, which was published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The first decision is: The National Assembly held a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question of the Mag. Bojane Muršič in connection with the increase in prices of energy and other goods in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 41. (The vote was 43.)(against 41.) I understand that the decision has been taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan Janša) to the question of the question of the people of Luke Mesca on violence. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. (For the vote was 39.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I'm asking for a little silence because it's hard to work with a turd like that. Thank you. Next decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question of the Mag. Alenka Bratušek on addressing environmental challenges. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. (The vote was 40.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question by Vojk Starović on the functioning of the Maribor Air Center. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. (For the vote was 38.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich in connection with the Šostjanj Termoelectric power plant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to Tina Heferle's question on the budget document of the Ministry of Justice for next year. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. (For the vote was 38.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of mag. Mark Koprivac regarding the effects of the liberalisation of fuel prices. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. (For the vote was 38.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš on the social consequences of the proposed changes in social legislation. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. (For the vote was 35.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to the question of Mr Maša Kociper on the condition of the PCT for the parties' access to the courts. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of the post of Mr Janje Slug concerning the increase in energy prices. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuša on the application of damage caused by the cold. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Edvard Paulič's question on VAT rates for guest and tourist services. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 29 to 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to the question of mags. Meire Hot in connection with the catastrophic health situation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 36 votes to 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of Mr Preil's delegation regarding the police's action in protests in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, up to 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Lenart's question on the reorganisation of health service providers. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Željk Cigler, on the admission of students from third countries to Slovenian universities. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 37 votes to 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik concerning the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the extension of the right to additional learning assistance. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. (For the vote was 35.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Andrej Širclja and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovalska on the question of mag. Andrei Reich in connection with the rise in electricity and natural gas prices. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. (For the vote was 38.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Nataša Sukič on the inefficient, non-professional and non-scientific approach to the implementation of vaccination. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of correspondence, Primož Siter, regarding government and party advertising. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
