ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 20, second paragraph of Article 58, second paragraph of Article 60 and 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 95th meeting. 2. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Nataša Sukič until 16.30, Tina Heferle from 2.30 p.m. to 16.30 p.m., Igor Zorčič to 16.30 p.m., Primož Siter, mag. Branislav Rajić by 6 p.m., Matjaž Germany by 4 p.m., Jani Prednik by 3 p.m. and Marko Koprivc by 3 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly was announced by Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec. The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, candidate for Minister Janez Poklukar and representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal by the Minister of Health candidate. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229 and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President John Janša proposed that Janez Poklukar be appointed Minister of Health. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear High Council! We propose Mr Janez Poklukar as the new Minister for Health in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Janez Poklukar completed his medical studies at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana. His first job was the General Hospital in Jesenice. At the beginning of 2013, he also became chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine, where he was responsible for organisational and professional management of the department. A year later, he became the director of the General Hospital in Jesenice. This hospital was successfully managed until July 2019. At that time, he also successfully completed her rehabilitation. In August 2019 he took over the management of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, which is our largest healthcare facility. There he faced difficult financial complications and at the very difficult financial situation of the hospital, rehabilitation procedures. He took them as challenges. New ones have also been added to these challenges as a result of the growing Coronavirus epidemic. Under the leadership of Janez Poklukar, the University Clinical Center with good organization and cooperation with knowledge of the problem successfully enabled the treatment of the largest proportion of people affected by cohabitation throughout the country, and within ten days, the management of the University Clinical Centre under its leadership was able to complete the renovation of the premises or the upgrading of the premises that had previously been built up for 12 years and to place them in use at the most critical moments. In his work, Mr Janez Poklukar set high standards and demonstrated high managerial and professional competences, as well as excellent knowledge of the Slovenian health system and its advantages and disadvantages. The candidate presented himself in more detail at a long hearing session in the working body of the National Assembly, where he answered a number of questions. The challenges that lie ahead of him are great and very difficult. In this place, I also thank him for accepting these challenges. I also thank you for giving him a lot of support on his mother's working body. The challenges facing him and the government, as well as all of them, lie ahead in the fight against the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself at a meeting of the Health Committee on 17 February 2021 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the report and the opinion of the Committee. It follows that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by President Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u4	President, thank you so much for your word. As stated, Prime Minister Janez Janša is President of the National Assembly Igor Zorčič 12. 2. 2021 submitted a proposal proposing Janez Poklukar as Minister of Health. This is how Janez Poklukar presented himself to the Committee on Health and answered the questions raised by the Members and Members present. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate stressed that he would rather be in the infirmary, but believes he can do even more for the people in the ministerial position. He presented his career path and said he was aware that he was coming in the most difficult moments of Slovenian health. In recent years, financial difficulties have been experienced by healthcare providers, they have been faced with severe shortages of staff, and there has been virtually no investment in infrastructure. The daytime event of the last year is also dictated by the covid-19 epidemic. He stressed that health care must be based on a strong primary level and that health care homes and their programmes, reference clinics and health centres should continue to be strengthened and additional health promotion measures should be provided. In his opinion, the prevention may be available to all. As the biggest health problem, he highlighted an ageing society and lifestyle, causing cardiovascular disease and cancer to grow. It is precisely because of the slow response to population ageing that our nursing homes have turned into nursing hospitals, which do not meet sufficient standards, that is why the network and concept will need to be re-established. The trend of staff departures, particularly nurses, will need to be halted. Health personnel should be planned for what a long-term strategy is needed. In cases of critical situations, we need to simplify the procedures for so-called imports of personnel from abroad. In addition to improving salaries for healthcare professionals, it is necessary to create adequate working conditions and to enable them to develop their careers. He stressed that public health services must be clearly demarcated from private activities. Concessionists at the primary and secondary levels should be included in continuous health care. In addition, the Agency for Quality in Health must be one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health. With regard to the reduction of waiting types, he believes that administrative barriers to travel or waiting lists should be removed, prevention strengthened and excessive travel to health checks introduced. The current health funding system is not sustainable. The needs for health services will increase and additional funding, including budget resources, will need to be provided, define what belongs to basic insurance and what is additional, and consider the transformation of supplementary health insurance. An important part of the legislation that needs to be amended is, in his view, the law on long-term care. To a greater extent, accessible technologies, such as telemedicine, need to be used to upgrade the electronic health record and connect the information systems of different healthcare providers. With regard to the epidemic, which has marked the lives of everyone in the past year, it is considered that there is still a need for great caution in the release of measures and for further solidarity among people, as the virus does not choose. In doing so, he thanked health workers for their hard work and urged everyone to continue to respect the measures so that we can return to normal life in due course of time. At a nearly eight-hour meeting, the proposed candidate submitted a very comprehensive reply to all the questions raised and informed the participants of his views, views and opinions, as well as proposals for action in specific areas of action within the Ministry and beyond. At the end of the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion that Janez Poklukar's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Janez Poklukar, distinguished candidate for Minister of Health, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Prime Minister's proposal, which proposes Mr Janez Poklukar as Minister of Health, was supported by Nova Slovenija on the home working body. We will do the same for Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats at this meeting of the National Assembly. There are many reasons and are already known to the Slovenian public, so I will not repeat them all. Candidates honor the values they live by. We rejoice that the dignity of every human is one of his most important values. He has a collegiate, respectful attitude towards his fellow workers, and he has proved to be an excellent crisis manager in his work so far. Colleagues and colleagues, it is a practice for Members to present their views on the development of the health system when appointing a Minister of Health. Let's just let this happen to me for a little while. Health is a great value of society. The individual is at the heart of the health system and is responsible for a healthy lifestyle or lifestyle. We are committed to raising the health level of our citizens. Basic health care and preventive measures must be accessible to all citizens at the time they need them and should not be just a right on paper. Health must not be a question of income. We won't leave anyone who needs help alone. For solidarity, society has to take care of the sick, the disabled and all those in need of care. The existing health system is no longer in line with the needs of modern society, both at organisational level and in terms of the way it is financed, so it needs to be updated. We are aware that this is a project of the entire Slovenian policy, but it certainly goes beyond one term. We advocate a public health system based on solidarity and transparency, and we also allow for the development of private health care. We reject the outdated model of monopolistic compulsory health insurance where insurance money is planned to be distributed to healthcare providers. We support regulated competitiveness in all areas of the health system. The modern concept of health care based on quality and safety for users of the healthcare system puts health and disease at the forefront as a starting point. European standards and European comparable health systems should serve as a criterion for the healthcare system. We advocate a wide and evenly accessible primary health care network, with the free choice of a doctor or health care provider. The hospital network should be organised economically and cost-effectively. We advocate the transparency of public spending in health care. In order to be able to employ qualified personnel in the future, we need to improve the attractiveness of the profession of nursing and other healthcare professionals. People who care for others deserve to be appreciated and appreciated for their work. We support private investment in health infrastructure, which in this way reduces the material costs of the country, makes it possible to offer services more and better quality, shorter waiting types and more evenly accessible. We need to separate between the work of concessionaires in the public service and the work of clean individuals without concessions, which allow for self-paying and superstandard health services. Digitalisation opens up unfathomable health options, both in prevention and in treatment. It brings quality exchange of usable health data and connects different institutions and medical expertise in comprehensive treatment and quality treatment. New forms of treatment are also emerging through modern technology. We want to take advantage of innovation by strengthening accountability, cooperation and preventing abuse. An individual must always have control over his medical data. Ethics in biogenetics and in health care are crucial. It is necessary to apply the freedom of objection to conscience in various areas of health and pharmacy. Slovenia is late to introduce a modern long-term care system. It is essential to establish insurance and an effective network of long-term care facilities. To this end, public funds must be provided and complemented by private resources. In doing so, it is necessary to follow modern trends in the care of the elderly, which are not limited to institutional care alone. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Janez Pollockar, sincerely thank you for his great work so far. Good luck, Mr. Poklukar, soon to be Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister! Health is universal value, human rights and the most important part of the welfare of each individual. If we have not been aware of this so far, we have no doubt come to realize it in the past year. The covida-19 epidemic has shaken our past beliefs and lifestyles well and placed the value of collective health in the right place. There is no country that would not intervene radically in our lives for the sake of health care and place the fight against a persistent virus as a first priority. The most commonly used word recently is probably covid-19, which hurt everything. Especially health care, which unfortunately had significant problems before. In the epidemic, these problems have only increased. The current health situation is difficult, especially with regard to accessibility to health services, which is one of the critical points of our health system. The waiting species are enormous. The Covid crisis has further exposed all the shortcomings of the current health system. Many patients don't even step in the treatment. The number of oncological diagnoses decreased dramatically as a result of non-treatment. Unfortunately, this does not mean that there are fewer patients with cancer, but that many patients are not diagnosed, which significantly impairs their potential for recovery. The minister's candidate said a while ago that we had a period full of impossible obstacles ahead of us. We also agree with this and at the same time wonder which way Slovenia will go, which way our health system will go. Or on the road to effective public health, which will be accessible to all under the same conditions, irrespective of the epidemic? Is it by way of gradual privatisation, which are already set out in the national call for reduction of waiting lines, which provides for the financing of all healthcare providers, including private individuals from our common money, without any criteria and restrictions? For SAB, the direction is more than clear, it is effective public health. That is why we were very pleased with Mr Poklukar, who said on the Committee on Health that he opposed the privatisation of public health and that for health care it was necessary to set the limits clearly and to unlock the health gap for amphibians. We are happy to do so, but we are not sure that he will be allowed to do so in this government coalition and that he will succeed. In the SAB we hope that the respected candidate of our health care will lead along the right path, the path of accessibility, quality and health well-being. With knowledge, experience as a doctor, as director first of the autumn general hospital and now the UKC has the right predispositions to successfully guide and steer between the winds of different directions whose target is our health care. Many things haven't moved in years and years at the health department. Problems such as long - term care have only accumulated. The job's not easy. The new minister is awaiting the cleansing of skeletons, the reconciliation of passions in the coordination of different interests and new challenges. It will also have to listen to citizens, professions and politicians and clearly define priorities. In the SAB, we place great hopes in the candidate for the new minister to find quick and effective solutions that will bring appropriate organisational, human and wage policies to doctors and health workers, and effective public health for citizens and citizens, accessible to all under equal conditions. In the past, a respected candidate has proved to be a good health manager. We hope that, as the 20th Minister of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, we will not be disappointed. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the proposal of the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present.Oh, my God! Today we will decide on the appointment of a candidate for the Minister of Health, and it is more than obvious that he will face a difficult task when confirmed, within a time-limited framework. Since candidate Janez Poklukar has shown in the past that he is a capable manager, we expect a lot from him in his new role. We expect concrete solutions, at a time that is in fact the most difficult for health care so far. We expect concrete steps that will help citizens to have equal access to public health without too long a waiting period. We expect quality services that will be included in the basket of compulsory health insurance. In short, we expect the effective functioning of our public health system, which will please both users and healthcare professionals. In the Desus Group, we have assessed that Mr Janez Poklukar's presentation on the working body was appropriate. He answered all the key questions and, of course, Desus, as a pensioner, was particularly interested in topics related to the pressing problems of the older population. We are pleased that Mr Poklukar has also recognized long-term care among the key topics requiring immediate proactive action. In order to regulate this area, we have been in the Desus for years. We estimate that the candidate also recognises all other key topics covering the health system and consequently users, such as ensuring a sufficient number of doctors at the primary level. A very specific and life-threatening problem is that of a citizen who gets sick and then finds out that he has lost a personal doctor. Such situations should simply not occur. The goal that we are pursuing and we have all somehow recognized is universally accessible public health. This is our starting point, even when we're talking about reshaping supplementary health insurance. The fact is that healthcare will have to be allocated more resources in the future, and the Minister of Health is expected to seek solutions within the meaning of rationalisation. Members of Desus' proposed candidate for the new Minister of Health, Dr. Janez Poklukar. We want him to take part in the tasks he has assigned and to justify his trust and to represent the interests of public and accessible health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Well, hello, all of you! Right from the start, I'm going to say that we're going to support Mr. Janez Poklukar's candidate. It's understandable. But he's got a lot of work to do. That's why I'm not going to talk about those classic things that my colleagues have already talked about and will, but I'm going to turn to specific problems. One of these problems is that, at the expense of foreign workers, those who come to Slovenia and work in Europe, from Slovenia, they take away every month whole boxes of medicines which are, of course, paid by the Slovenian budget. The problem is, say, health homes, so it would be reasonable to suggest that health homes as buildings remain owned by the municipality, but given that employees in these health homes are paid by the Ministry of Health, I think the Ministry should have competence over who they hired as the head of the healthcare home, who are the ones that this chief brings into his unit and how they work. Not some mayors with medical education or uneducated can determine who will be the director of the health home and who will be his subordinates. Then it happens just like in the Kočevje Health House, where we have everything confused. The selection of mayors, Slovenian people leaving, comes from foreign people themselves, who do not know much of the Slovenian language. This is waiting for the minister to handle it. That, too. Why do some physicians have the advantage? As an example, the gypsies come across the line to every doctor. If we look at those immigrants of Albanian nationality, Šiptarje, not Albanians, they simply go to the infirmary in the rubble, while Slovenians have to stick to the regulations when they can, say, with a child only one parent in the office. Something has to be done here, too. Why do we have in health homes, in a health care center, instructions in Albanian, what should these people do, and how should they do things, when we actually care very little about the Slovenians, and to a large extent do we care about whether our people find themselves or not? Of course, concessions are also a problem. Concession is a matter that does not burden public health, but helps public health. That's why I think there's something that needs to be done here. For those who do not know what concession means, however, the horizons need to be enlightened and explained. For we all want to have good health, that we do not wait in ranks, and just by granting concessions these types can be substantially reduced and reduced. It's a big deal. They've got dentists, they've got occults, they've got orthopedics, and someone else. Investments in certain health infrastructures must also be arranged in such a way that some associations do not serve huge amounts of money, of course we will pay for it all. And when we're trying to find out who's responsible for this whole thing, it's not his fault. No one, well, the exception was now these four doctors, but those who took millions, no one touches. These people intend to continue to serve heavily at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. I think that the minister here should set up a team that will regulate joint purchases for all of Slovenia and, above all, from the Ministry, push out those useless personnel that have been glowing since 1992 or perhaps a little later and are associated with various clicks that allow them even some euro to fall into private pockets. The situation in the medical school should also be regulated, although this is not the direct task of the Minister of Health. But together with the Minister of Education, there should also be one revitalisation, including the revitalization of studies, so that studies at our medical school will be more comparable to Western colleges, which are far ahead of us. Unfortunately, we are also ahead of Belgrade College and Belgrade's VMA, which can especially hurt our people here. After all, the clinical center was once the tip in this part of Europe, today we're digging in the back with appliances that are old and already oblivious, I'd say. Something has to be done here, too. There's still a whole bunch of things that need to be done. I cannot mention everything here, but I think that when the Minister is elected, what he will soon get from us from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, a question not only that we want to get an answer, but that certain matters will also be implemented, repaired and settled. There's something else. But for a successful start, I'm going to give the minister, once he's sworn, an anonymous one that I got days ago, read it to him, and let him be prepared to be such anonymous ones. Which logs I don't think anyone has to tell and explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Ferenc Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr President of the Government, a respected candidate for Minister, a respected colleague and colleague! Tistet Hölgyim és Uraim, Sherettel köszöntöm Önöket! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! Our health care is faced with many problems and challenges. It is probably not a coincidence that we have already confirmed the fourth minister candidate in this term. In this important area of our community, however, the covida-19 epidemic has further exacerbated our mistakes and put us before new challenges, great trials. That is also why Janez Poklukar, a candidate for minister, was placed before a challenging task. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we believe that this task will come to fruition, as Mr Poklukar has already demonstrated his work in this area and we believe that with his rich experience and knowledge in the field of health he will be able to improve the current state of affairs and introduce the necessary reform of the health system. We are aware that the future minister will have to face many things. One of the main problems is that the entire public health system lacks doctors and other health workers, so we welcome the government's decision to increase the number of admissions to medical schools in the coming study year. We hope that this trend will continue in the future. At the same time, we call for the creation of all necessary conditions for young doctors and other health professionals to remain in our public health care after completion of education and specialization. Young people who are employed, but not only in health care, should be offered suitable conditions for work and life in order to choose life and work in Slovenia instead of going abroad. I would also like to draw attention to the right of patients to be transported by ambulances to remote hospitals. This thing's been going on for a while. We expect the Ministry of Health to finally respond to requests from post-moral and other patients and this right will be clearly enshrined in the Health and Health Insurance Act. With current legislation, we are those who live in rural areas away from health centres and are disadvantaged, so many older people in particular are not allowed adequate health care, which should not be allowed in the 21st century in Slovenia. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we are working to ensure that members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the implementation of all health services in health establishments in the area where indigenous national communities live, as well as in the Murska Sobota General Hospital, which is located outside the national mixed area, while the inhabitants of the national mixed territory gravitate to them to use their native language. In doing so, we expect the Minister's support to ensure that this right, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution, to the members of both indigenous national communities. Dear John Poklukar, I wish you many elenas, courage and happiness at your work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that again. If anyone can fix health care, it's Janez Poklukar. If anyone chooses a good team to trust her, and I believe he'll do it, it'll be another successful story. This is a man who advocates public health. This is a man who knows the system. These are not the words of one of the politicians, but the words of his mentor and former associate from the autumn hospital of Igor Rus, spoken at the announcement of the Pollocker's candidacy for minister. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, when she was still president of the Medical Chamber, said that his good knowledge of the health system was very important for this responsible function. We must all be aware that his mandate will be shorter and, at least in the first months, focused on measures related to the epidemic. He faces a difficult task of ensuring better functionality of the ministry in all its works. Even in the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, Poklukar's good knowledge of the Slovenian health system is highlighted. He leaves behind a successful story in both Jesenica and UKC Ljubljana. In addition, he has the courage to accept such a challenging challenge in these difficult situations, wrote the president of Marjan Pintar. Positive signals from the candidature of the Minister of Health also came from the Medical and Nana Care Chamber — the Union of Professional Associations of Nurses, Grandmothers and Medical Technicians. In addition to his good knowledge of the health system, Monika Azman, president of the House, highlighted his good knowledge of health care and nursing. Otherwise, speaking about the abilities of John Poklukar and his suitability as minister is not just a matter of words. It's about actions resulting in successful stories. In 2014, he became Acting Director and later Director of the General Hospital in Jesenice, which was not only successfully managed but also managed to complete its rehabilitation. At that time, he said, “There is no tolerance for corruption.” In 2019 he took over management of UKC Ljubljana. At this point, he faced both the difficult financial situation of the hospital, the remedial procedures and the challenges of the growing epidemic, the covida-19 virus. Good organisation, knowledge of issues and cooperation were key to successfully facing all difficult conditions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that Janez Poklukar is ready to take on one of the most important and challenging pillars and face a number of challenges. As a result of decades of neglect in the health sector, a number of systemic problems have accumulated, infrastructure backlogs, and financial resources have rather focused on areas of entirely different importance compared to health care. Due to the lack of transparency and poor supervision, we have witnessed corruption, and due to inadequate policies in the field of health and working conditions, we have been dealing with the lack of timely and comprehensive care in almost all areas for years. The problem is also only the Ministry of Health, which is humanely fed and has everything before the optimal assembly. Such a situation undermines operationality and the up-to-date response to key problems. The experience presented so far, the priorities and guidelines set by John Poklukar give us optimism. He realizes that he has a hard work ahead of him, but believes in the power of cooperation and has a clear vision of action. In his presentation to the parental committee, he was very specific in his predictions. Much of this has already been presented in the Committee's report, and I am stressing only a few of its points here. As a key problem, he highlighted an ageing society and lifestyle. In 2003, we had 300,000 people over the age of 65 in Slovenia, today we have 419 thousand. According to projections, there were already 545 thousand in 2030. At the same time, the number of young people on the other hand is decreasing. As a result, homes for the elderly have changed to nursing hospitals that do not meet the necessary standards, so their network and concept must be designed. The adoption of a law on long-term care is urgent, points out Poklukar. The last few years have been financially difficult for health care. We are plagued by a lack of personnel, investment in infrastructure has virtually been lacking, and the daily pace of the last year is dictated by the fight with the covida-19 epidemic. According to the applicant, health care must be based on strong primary health care and it is essential to strengthen healthcare homes, preventive programmes, health promotion, reference hospitals and health centres. He also highlighted the difficult problem of leaving the medical staff, in particular nurses, mainly with workplaces that operate continuously. Public health must be clearly demarcated from the private sector, and administrative barriers to waiting species must be removed, prevention strengthened and defensive medicine stopped. Respect for measures, great care in the release of these, and sufficient grafting are essential for the management of the epidemic. The candidate for Minister of Health Janez Poklukar said: “I have come with a team and with expertise to set up tents for good work, but in the end we will need the will of all together. I believe it will not be easy for us, but if we listen and even hear ourselves, we will also make the right arrangements and pave the way." In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly support its candidacy for the well-being of citizens and citizens employed in health care, and in particular patients. We believe that all policies, regardless of which direction they come from, are aware of the importance of regulating the situation in our health care. The path will not be easy, but it is already an important first step, and this is undoubtedly support for the proposed candidate for a minister. Mr Poklukar has this support in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u18	Who's not in favor of a strong public health system? Who doesn't want to shorten the waiting lines? Who's not in favour of reshaping the supplementary health insurance? Who is not to say that doctors, health workers, are paid fairly and fairly for their work? Who is not in favour of modernising health infrastructure? Who is not a new major source in the area of financial injection, which is said to be within the health register and the entire health system? Who doesn't want us to win the epidemic? I'm sure, at least globally, we have more or less similar views. But the problem arises in the details of how to handle it. This is a big question, which often also breaks different opinions and views on the whole story. Before us, the candidate, in fact, we have heard many times today, said very little in eight hours of a long hearing. In fact, except for three, he did not actually define himself, he simply said that something should be done in this area. In fact, he did not have a clear vision and a clear policy of how he would solve things in the next year and for a few months. We must be aware that he does not have four years ahead of him, but only one year and a few months ahead of him. At this time, I say that very little can be done for such a large and important system, both in the legislative field and in the concrete results. But in this one year, we can destroy the health system well. This government has already proven this by its direct actions, which some are even already in force. The candidate for minister said in his views that he supported the public health system. I wonder how he will keep it and make it strong, but if there are people in this government who are actually defending it, the Prime Minister has made it very clear that there must be a change in the system and the beginning of the privatisation of the health system. That's indisputable. I don't know how the minister is going to do that, who's going to defend the public health system. However, we know that during this time, since the government of Janez Janša, the minister of health has had a major problem in saying his point of view and making his point, for in fact, John Janša was — first of all, an informal minister — and later a temporary formal one — also John Janša. The restructuring of the health system and, above all, the supplementary health insurance has been announced. How, in a way, he didn't say. He said we needed more money. Like, where he didn't say. He said we needed new infrastructure. The way we're gonna do this, he didn't say. But he talked a lot. There's been a lot of talk in the last 14 days about the candidate for minister. Most of the time it is stressed that he is an extremely good crisis manager. But we do not need a minister who will be a crisis manager, we need a minister who has very clear political orientations on what he will actually do. You can be a crisis manager in a hospital, in a system, in a company, not a minister. Being the director of the hospital is one thing, being the main and responsible in a large system such as the University Clinical Center Ljubljana, is another. Being a minister, in a political position, in the government of Janez Janša, where the Minister's word of Malone means almost nothing, but there is a third. That is why we ask ourselves today: What does the minister really advocate, and what awaits us? Through this debate today, we will hear a lot of words about what has not happened in the last ten years, or, rather, what has been neglected in the last 30 years. Above all, however, we need to know that we have a problem with medical bills. The Minister's candidate said that the rights of baskets should be reviewed, but it was not defined which are those who no longer belong to this basket. So once again, the candidate for minister said very little. He didn't define himself because he knew he was coming to the government, where the question was what position and power he would have. It's a shame to put a good doctor in a bad government. A good doctor loses his reputation, a good name and follows him, I'll say, bad decisions themselves. The correct question, which is always the question of whether we will support this minister or candidate for minister, is, of course, the following. Every government that appoints its ministers, especially at the beginning, when the government is barely formed and composed, must first prove itself capable of electing its ministers. But when he's doing a reconstruction of the government and he's putting up new candidates, and if it's a bad government that this state council even decided on a constructive non-disclosure not a week ago, we have a serious problem why we would support a candidate — even if he were good — in a bad government. No matter what, because I assume that the candidate for minister will be elected, we wish him great luck, little bad decisions and let him be brave even when other decisions are imposed on him, and let him say out loud that it is not his decision to do so. But more will be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The epidemic of contagious covida-19 disease has been absorbed in all times of our lives, and its impact will be felt by citizens and citizens for a long time. In Slovenia there is virtually no activity or area in which the Coronavirus would have no effect. I'm sure there's nothing more to a stroke than health care. And if it is not enough that health care as a key pillar in the fight against the epidemic is the one on the verge of its capabilities, unfortunately the government has served us with a number of affairs that have further burdened health care instead of focusing all efforts on strengthening health care. However, we can only admire the sacrifice of all overworked and numbered health workers, doctors and nurses whose victims would not be so many if the government were to solve the shortage of personnel and spatial pressures in health care more systematically, especially in a timely manner. The epidemic all the time also dictates the implementation of most health programs. One reason is the intrusion of the virus between employees and patients. Waiting periods are still longer for at least two months, and diagnosis is also concerned, which may be detected late or even late. The health situation is indeed serious and the government is still playing its political games. Whether it be by means of disputed purchases of medical equipment or by transferring the government as to the possible inadequacy of rapid antigen tests, which we still do not know exactly whether their procurement was entirely in line with the tender for sensitivity criteria. The final result of these political games, however, will ultimately be paid by citizens and citizens. We can only hope that not with our health or, worse yet, with our lives. Your Honor! Slovenia was among the last countries in Europe to receive the first new coronary infection in early spring last year, but on the other hand we are also the country that is in the second wave of the epidemic in the world summit by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. And this is the situation that the new Minister of Health will have to deal with. Mr Janez Poklukar, candidate for the new Minister of Health, is a public figure. We can say that it is not a new and unrecognizable face in the Slovenian space, but it is certainly a new face in the Slovenian political space. He says again that he is a non-party candidate or that he is not a candidate for any of the parties to the ruling coalition. Janez Poklukar has long experience in the management of health institutions, since we know that he was finally successful in running the hospital Jesenice and was later appointed Director General of UKC Ljubljana due to his professionalism and work performance. The candidate for minister knows Slovenian health and health system. He has experience in the management of health institutions, but how he will be the first person in the field of Slovenian health is difficult to judge. Today's appointment of Mr Poklukar will be the fourth in a row. The frequency of the exchange of ministerial candidates at the Ministry of Health is high. If even a proposal from the current Minister of Health, the Prime Minister, on the so-called rotations of government ministers in the position of minister, were to be put in place, this frequency would be even higher. Despite years of political experience and knowledge of our political system, the rulings have envisioned the rotations of ministers in the role of Minister of Health. This is a clear indicator that health and regulated system in Slovenia is the top priority of this government. The underlying crisis is primarily the health crisis. We have proved to be and still to be successful in overcoming it, thanks to the system we call the public health system. When all other forms of health care failed, the public health system abstained. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that the ministerial candidate is aware of this. We also hope that it is aware of the intention and desire of some political parties to fully privatise our health system. Members and members of the Health Committee, at the marathon hearing, we asked the future minister a lot of questions that were important to us. Above all, we were interested in how the candidate would divide public health and private health care, how he would financially and humanely underpin the public health system and how he would act against corruption in health care. It is important for the Social Democrats to regulate the long-term care area for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to become an active customer, and it is also important for us that both the tertiary hospitals we have in Slovenia, UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor receive comparable financial support and investment. In the last 30 years, the system of occupational diseases has fallen apart. But this is not a lonely case of health problems and problems. The list is long and the time to new elections is fast approaching. Even though we have a health crisis and our public health system is just before it burns down, we cannot and cannot allow it. Dear future minister! In the first place, you will be responsible for the breakdown, possible breakdown or preservation of our health system. Depending on your actions and your management of the system, what health care we will have in Slovenia. The Social Democrats will be watching your moves and the legislative proposals you will send to the National Assembly in a bold and vigilant manner. We will not allow the public health system to fall apart and finally privatize itself in front of our eyes. In view of all the health problems and the crisis we are in, you will have an extremely difficult task and hard work. We will not support the candidate for Minister of Health in the Group of Social Democrats. However, we believe that it is entirely this fiasco that the government and the ruling coalition have afforded themselves in the field of health that it is the responsibility of the candidate to appoint himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respected and respected! Today, in the National Assembly, we are deciding on Mr Janez Poklukar's candidacy for the new Minister of Health. Health care as currently a key source of control for the epidemic more than ever needs a minister who, with his competence and leadership, will help us to cope effectively with the health crisis we are currently in. Candidate Janez Poklukar presented his guidelines for the ministry at a meeting of the Health Committee last week, in which he highlighted as a priority the management of the covida-19 epidemic and the provision of medium and long-term sustainable health care in the face of challenges posed by the ageing population. These are important points that will make it essential to ensure that the health system is not under severe pressure at an extremely difficult time when it needs at least minimum stability and predictability. In connection with the situation we are currently in, the Modern Centre Party reiterates the importance of vaccination, which is the most important weapon in which we can achieve collective immunity. The Minister of Health will play a key role in the implementation of the vaccination strategy at this point through an active approach. Its focus should, according to our assessment, be focused on the development of a communication strategy, with which it will use the profession to give citizens the appropriate opportunity to decide on vaccination in sufficient numbers. Despite the current priority battle against the epidemic, we cannot and must not underestimate the importance of public health, whose aim is to maintain universal and accessible health care for all, and we therefore support the announced efforts of the candidate for a minister to strengthen healthcare homes, preventive programmes, provide additional health promotion measures, strengthen reference health clinics and health centres, establish communication channels between health levels and ensure integrated health care at all levels. In the Modern Centre Party, as one of the commitments under the Coalition Treaty, we attach particular importance to the comprehensive regulation of the production and use of medical and industrial hemp for medical, scientific, scientific research, veterinary and economic purposes. We believe that the use of medical hemp should be made universally possible due to its usefulness and effects on humans and animals, while at the same time regulating the cultivation and production of industrial hemp, which is widely useful in the field of nutrition and care, in the field of industry, environment and health. At this point, we expect the Minister to open dialogue and willingness to cooperate. We would like to get an interlocutor with the appointment of Mr Poklukar who understands why this area needs to be fully regulated. It is true that eliminating and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic is the first step towards normalising the current health picture. At the same time, the Slovenian health system must be prepared for long-term pressures and provide accessible and quality health services to all citizens and citizens, and especially timely treatment without long waiting lines, without the covida-19 virus being a barrier, since we will live with it for a while. We are aware that Mr Janez Poklukar's candidate for Minister will take over the ministry at the most ineligible time in the event of an election. He himself has pointed out in recent weeks that he prefers to be in the infirmary, but he believes that he can do more for the people in his position as minister. We welcome his efforts in the SMC Group. But we are aware that the task will be more than simple. Janez Poklukar has proven himself in the post of Director-General of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and we believe that he will also turn out to be Minister of Health. Our appeal also goes in the direction that the consequences of the underdevelopment of health care in past periods resulting from failed policies and strict austerity measures during and after the crisis will continue to be addressed in the coming period. Today, the reasons for the crisis are also in a situation in which we are facing an epidemic, and attention will also have to be paid to the exit strategy on how to address and deal with health care after it ends. Health remains a top-notch political theme, as in addition to the interests of citizens and citizens, the interests of health insurance providers, the interests of medical equipment suppliers, the interests of medical equipment and other employees, which are in a permanent conflict which is difficult to manage over time. We wish the Minister of Health a happy hand in driving among the many stakeholders who are mirrored after the shift of different interests and desires. Our goal remains high-quality and affordable public health, and today we express our support to the candidate for the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! Your Honor! Slovenia is facing probably one of the worst problems of its recent history, this is a severe health crisis, with a covida crisis which has been found in our country in a very large number of deaths. Today we have an impression on the appointment of a new Minister of Health, which is the fifth since the beginning of this term of the National Assembly, two and a half years' mandate and health ministers at a time when the health situation is very severe have been exchanged as by the current tape: Minister Fakin, Minister Šabeder, Minister Gantar, Minister Janša, we now have the appointment of Minister Poklukar. Today we have the impression that we are getting a Minister of Health who will be professional and independent in the management of health policy. But, look, this impression is wrong. Wrong first because the expertise of this government is in a different way. It is also wrong because the policy is determined by the government and, above all, by its President. Finally, this impression is wrong because the extensions for spontaneous privatisation of the public health system or health care system in Slovenia are already in place. One government crisis manager cannot and will not remove the crisis caused by the current government itself, the government of Janez Janša. At the hearing, candidate Poklukar stated that the virus does not choose, but finds, especially the weakest. That's right. But it is also true that the weakest government in the epidemic did not protect it. I'm talking about 130,000 people in Slovenia who don't have a selected personal physician and over 3,000 700 victims of the epidemic. These are just two figures that illustrate the balance of work of this government and its success, a government that is consciously joined by candidate Janez Poklukar. The only thing that may bother us more about the fact that John Poklukar is entering this government uncritically and hopelessly is the predictions we heard at his hearing at the Committee on Health, the competent committee of the National Assembly. We have heard that a basket of rights will have to be redefined as our population in Slovenia is ageing. But this argument is the same as having older disasters in our homes, which is why it was a disaster because the elderly were there. Who's supposed to be in nursing homes? There's been a disaster in the nursing homes because of this government's wrong policy. Instead of a basket of rights, a respected candidate for the Minister of Health, priorities need to be redefined. How is it possible for this government to limit the national plan for recovery and resilience to EUR 200 million in all drafts? How is it possible that, during the greatest health crisis in modern history, this government adopts a law that provides 780 million for weapons, 3 000 700 people have died, 130 thousand people have no personal physician selected in this country. This is possible because it is and such priorities of the government. He's not a man in the first place. A government in which, I repeat, a candidate you enter consciously. Candidate Poklukar was permanently appointed by the Institute of Health Insurance at the hearing by the insurance company. But it's not an insurance company. This is a public cash register that operates according to the principles of solidarity and planning. She's not perfect, but she's certainly not an insurance company. Last year, however, the Department of Health Insurance ended up with 87m euros in deficit. Why? Because this government also believes that it is just an insurance company that needs to be sunk as soon as possible and a place for private insurance and private individuals who are looking forward to it. During the time of this government, a call was adopted in the intervention legislation, through which private health operators will pay in their pockets millions of sums of supplementary health insurance premiums, unfair and non-social premiums paid by the weakest ones who Mr Poklukar considers it necessary to protect them during the crisis. During the time of this government, insurance companies bought fast and calculated and purchased private health care providers and activities. At the time of this government, one individual sat at the same time in the expert group for covid-19 and also bought public infrastructure and served greasyly with rapid tests. This government protects capital, its own interests, its friends, and certainly not the weakest. Once again, this is the government, the candidate for the Minister of Health, in which you step. From the presentation on the Health Committee, it is only possible to conclude that Janez Poklukar will continue the work of this government. So we're getting another minister who's going to be holding the stand for a while, while a piece behind a piece of working people is going to take away that little public health that's left. In fact, it is only two things: whether Mr. Poklukar does not know what he is going into, or he knows and does not care. In the first case, he's not suitable for a minister, in the second case he's even less. We will therefore oppose his candidacy in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a candidate for a minister. Robert Pavšič has the word and will be followed by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u26	Thank you very much, chairman. I will also speak as if the Minister is with us today, because I am sure that he is following us, because what we are about to talk about today and what we are going to talk about today is very important to me, if not even strategically, even if it is only a year of time. Today's presentation and views were extremely dual. On the one hand, there was a candidate for the rightful messiah, we had heard a lot of superlatives, and on the other hand, since the resignation of the former minister, the former, before Mr Janša, a number of questions have been raised. Just as a whole number of people have come together in this mandate and in all of the previous ones, so today there will be a lot of questions. All the ministers and most of the candidates we met not only in this mandate, but also in the previous ones, they were all familiar with the system, they were all professionals, but they didn't move much. That's why there's skepticism here today. Also because, as acquaintances and professionals, they were always dependent on politics as ministers. And this is where the complications are concerned, because the profession in a political sense or in political activity is too often lost. In fact, this is the practice of this government. I understand you, the candidate for the minister. If the Prime Minister invites you to serve as Minister for such a responsible office, then you can't deny it. Of course, Mr Poklukar would rather be in the infirmary, where he depends only on himself, but this challenge, you couldn't or should not have refused this offer. I have heard from the President of the Health Committee today that he has given the candidate full answers. Well, that's a perception thing, because I thought it was diametrically opposite. He turned away from the content, just as his proposer, the Prime Minister, had turned away from the content. He was talking today, actually reading his resume. This is important, but some political, some strategic direction, although it's only a year away, we haven't heard from it. However, we have heard some of the rather dangerous starting points which were, by the way, put in place between positions and will certainly have to be addressed by the Minister. Several times before the health system needs to be renovated. If this renovation wasn't possible in 30 years, I don't know how it'll be possible in one year. So there won't be any time. We've heard of monopolistic health insurance. But here I'm afraid the solution will be found very quickly. But on whose account? We've heard of regulated competitiveness. Yes, competition regulation is likely to be measured by political parameters, which is again dangerous. But one thing got me very confused and stabbed, and I hope you all heard it. Objection to medical and pharmaceutical conscience. I hope you are aware of what this means from the practice we have encountered, like in Croatia or Poland. I hope I misunderstood that, because if I didn't, then this is an intervention in the already acquired constitutional rights. But he's obviously going to have to deal with it, too. I hear Mr. Poklukar is a good manager. It could be. But in the anonymous writing that a colleague has already presented in his position and that we have received from all Members, we can see quite a few data that will require answers. It's a shame we didn't have this document at the hearing, because we wouldn't have to deal with it today. But here's quite a few claims that I rightly believe are true. The current loss of the clinical centre in Ljubljana is the biggest 25 million euro in history, thus the author claims, and the debt to suppliers is still the same and amounts to 72 million euros. This is a huge burden for the largest health care institution in Slovenia. In addition, a loan of EUR 20 million has not yet been repaid. And that's how numbers are always picked up. There are also some indications that we will be following for sure in the coming days, including regarding the emergency rehabilitation of the so-called covid hospital, which is said not to be suitable for the treatment of these patients, even if the epidemic is not declared, we will probably close it then, and from how the deliberate packing of certain recovery costs into other items has been carried out. Too bad the candidate for a minister can't answer these questions again, because I'd like to hear the answers very much and I believe I'll be able to do so in the future. But something is true. In addition to all the dangerous things I have mentioned, this minister will have to deal with the epidemic in particular. There'll be no time for another. But something is definitely coming up in the health field, even if we've been watching for the last three weeks. Members of the boards of institutions are replaced in series throughout Slovenia. At the last meeting of the government, two members of the board of the institution were formally replaced at the Izola General Hospital, whose term of office expires on 17 May this year. What is so urgent that this government cannot wait two months for the term of office to expire normally? This only convinces me that in the health field we are currently preparing something very big, or we would not have experienced such a staff disaster in hospitals or institutions where it would not be necessary. So we experience it. I wonder what the next step will be. And I'm actually afraid of this next step. And I'm also afraid of considering the profession. We have been informed that the pressure of the government on the NIJS director, Mr Milan Krek, to suspend or replace the leading epidemiologist or the epidemiologist, as he has been told several times, is that, Mr Maria Fafangl. Why? Because he dared to question the effectiveness and proportionality of the measures we have been monitoring and experiencing and living for the last four months. Is that really a sin if you're asking for more quality quick tests?Oh, my God! It's a terrible sin. If you want to check positive quick tests of people who have no symptoms with PCR tests, that's also scary. If you're advocating the opening of schools by the fifth grade, that's also a terrible sin. And if you hope to doubt that the restriction of movement on regions and municipalities is actually effective. If you point out that a quarantine decision cannot be implemented by the National Institute for Public Health because it is not a repressive body. If you point out excessiveness, disproportionateity of action and military leadership of the epidemic. And finally, what we've been monitoring in this building for four months now is that you've been alerting us to an irregular system of hospital compensation that was actually an original sin for the express and exponential spread of the covida epidemic. The infected went to work because they could not afford 20% of the lower pay. And that was the original sin. I don't know if we should continue with the latest news from the street where they say we'll rent a bus and go to the Balkans because our country won't allow it. I'll finish. Who knows, perhaps today it would be best for Mr Pollocker not to be confirmed. This would do him the greatest service, professionally and politically, according to my personal evaluation. That's why I object to his appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u27	Thank you very much. He'll get the word from Dr. Franz Duck, followed by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! If we first ask ourselves a question, what is health care in Slovenia or the system of Slovenian public health care. This is a good 4 billion interests among the antipod of the Human Resources Undernourished Ministry for a long time, and on the other hand, if you want, Parliament or the Assembly of Slovenian Public Health, 45 people in the ZZZS. And between 4 billion interests and usually some government presidents who are kneeling sooner or later. Sharsu's government has fallen, usually forgotten, on health care, on the interests of insurance companies and on two of his ministers, two of the key ministers to forgive me. In particular, with regard to the candidate, I will return to him a little later, but I have listened to these discussions from the office or the position of the groups of Members. You know, it's so little tragic and cynical. The SMC, which was then a large SMC, as the current coalition, you read most of the positions in a way that you are now some new political force that came to Parliament two months ago, and will talk about what it would be nice to do with Slovenian health. Man also largely determines in politics what he goes with in Spain. Mr Poklukar, with a cane, even with a dose, if you like, of madness in all threats, has been relatively successful in curing the autumn story. In part, there was a mitigating circumstance that some internal competitors had left. One of them retired, one of them left. What was the story in UKC Ljubljana in order to give this judgment decisively here, I would need some more information. However, as far as hearing or hearing is concerned, for so long I have been a member of this hearing, usually sitting, hanging, even if I am not a member of the home working body often. At hearings, what candidates say, answer, is actually even more important to me than what they overhear or what they somehow avoid. The candidate somehow overheard my question of what he would do with parallelism. We have a Human Resources Undernourished Ministry, we have what is a visible member of NSI, a long-standing Loyza Peterle, said in one recent interview that it is not only about saving lives, that it is also a big business that is going on and has been going on to a great extent past the Ministry, which, after all, is now already the former Minister of Gantar acknowledged. When these foster parents or, if you want, Dr. Resting Golf, pasta, who have proved to be Southmen without a spare tire, if I do a little caricature, you shoot when you've shot to the end, then you remember the referee minister. I don't know, but Jelka Godec will be part of the minister's team or will still be part of the top crisis manager if I put it that way. He also examined the question of what we will do to communicate the epidemic. He didn't want to comment on some of the government's answers, which I expected, but he's going to this government after all. Lying to the Acting Minister of Health and the current Prime Minister on the validation of these rapid tests. Clearly, no one really reads the answers he receives in this pilfering government’s attitude towards the National Assembly. When clearly recorded, Janša claimed that this was validated, but in fact there is a sentence based on some partial tests. He also examined the answer to the question of the price of rapid tests. Here a government response has travelled that the Minister of Health can actually change this price according to quantity and volume. In view of the fact that this initial machine is still in place with an abundance of plummatics, it is likely that this price per unit of testing may be lower. Unless some friends are serving, just as a brother serves at a New Year’s and similar gallery, which state companies now almost have to buy under obligation. He also examined the question of what money that currently comes from additional, complementary, whatever you want, insurance is sitting on private insurance companies, and could be used to rehabilitate after covid, which will be difficult not only for some older people after the ems, even for some middle-aged people. I know quite a few stories of very active athletes who have had a very difficult form of covid and find that they feel like they're attached to 20% of the energy. He also heard questions about the conflicts of interest that Robbie had previously discussed. From the position of power when the first man was UKC, he somehow went away from an association where the first people of some other public health institutions sat, a little in the way “we are a country in a country like Banka Slovenije, I somehow don’t need it”. When I was preparing for the debate today, I thought a little bit about what would happen if Mr Poklukar suggested another coalition, say KUL. On the right hand side of this ellipse, we would probably have listened to what we had then heard from former Minister Šabedr. Probably what Robbie said earlier, these millions, these losses would continue to throw him, probably someone would say that he is guilty, that he is incompetent and so on, although those of us who have gone a little deeper into the Slovenian health system know that this is a systemic problem, which brings some parallels to some of the money that should have been channeled elsewhere in Slovenian public health. But a little joke, a little bit, the SDS is such a principled party that when you say the red star, they almost fall apart, and in Maribor they're home to Partizanska on Kardelje Street, which I'm happy to see as a form of some future cooperation, only Kidrik's market is occupied. If I were Tanko right now, I'm sure he'd be commenting. He's not in session, I'm sorry. Robbie also mentioned an objection to conscience. Of course, I have no illusion that in this year, if a candidate for a minister is confirmed, he can do a lot. I don't have that illusion either, because he's going into some kind of wrong Spain. In one Spain, where they already have a yellow-blue problem with some of their own medical staff, because, simply put, they no longer have to dance in such a mascot, in one if I paraphrase Minister Shirtzl, an Olympic competition where the government has brought Slovenia to the pedestal of three countries that are the least successful in dealing with the second wave of the epidemic. We didn't cook this for Miha Kordish, which is almost all your fault, and I, the opposition, didn't cook it, the street didn't cook it, the bikers didn't cook it. The candidate himself somehow said that when I provoked him a little, who will now lead the policy of Slovenian health or will, as the Constitution puts it, you or will be Super-Commander Ivan Janez. Mr. Secretary said it was as it was written in the constitution. I have no illusions that this is how it's gonna be. At a previous session, Robi read a letter from a renowned Slovenian doctor, as he was negotiating the acquisition of some expensive medical equipment at the current minister's duty. Some serious politics also begins there by somehow putting up with the nerds, what you get to know and what you don't really know. Also these changes that are now being made in sacred institutions. Not only is he in a crazy hurry, but I'm also going to watch which people from your political quotas are being set up in these institutions. That's about it, I'm looking at a fellow Bandellian here, like he set me up as the head of his firm, which I really have no idea about. I'm sorry, Marco, but I'm sorry to abuse you a little bit, which is what you used to do. All that matters is that it's the right color of the book. It's nothing new. When Janša was disintegrated by another government, you did similar work on the DSO just before the present, I have very good in mind when you put someone who turned out to be there. But no, the DSO is only the SD's fault, you have nothing to do with it. I'm kind of surprised at the candidate himself, because he's going into some sort of double-handed thing. But I have no illusion if I didn't agree to this, but we'd start beating it in UKC Ljubljana. I'd say, look, you're Charlemagne's shot, so much minus and so on. It is clear that this government and this coalition primarily love money. Its operation in a year is that now we're at the trough, and now we're going to take it. This national recovery plan is a nice part, our cousins concrete stories. Instead of dealing with what we should be, I'm going to say a little bit in the way of NSI, the sacrament. Quality-accessible public health is a civilizational acquisition, not that I remember now in Cerarje's government, when the Minister of Infrastructure has spoken now, but because it doesn't matter where the money goes, we'll be tracking the money, even if it's operated here or nearby, across borders or abroad. Then I said it was best to close the med school. This is just some Spanish and a group that Mr Poklukar is going to join. To what extent with some soft compulsion, to what extent without coercion, I don't know. Unlike the people on the right side of the political field who see more into my head than I do, as you put it, I don't have those abilities. I don't want to be too long for my colleagues to be left with anything. As a result of what I know from Jesenic, Mr Janez Poklukar is a good candidate, but he is running in government and in some way, which is not only bad, but which is in fact dangerous. And that's why I can't support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Nova Slovenija proposed to the Prime Minister the candidate for Minister Janez Poklukar because she is a specialist in the Slovenian health system, because she is familiar with how the public system should work, because she has shown from experience a number of well done work, the rehabilitation of the Jesenica hospital and also in the UKC, and also because she is a man who gives much to agree on, to cooperate and who is supported by the profession, doctors, midwife, nurses, surgeons. So he's got more support. In his initial presentation at the hearing, such as many of his witnesses, he placed some five, perhaps six points of reference. I will repeat them again because in the position of many, the Group of Members intervened in an area on which no candidate for a minister spoke. He said that he wanted waiting species, quality and adequate care to be at the right time, that the epidemic was currently shaping work, that there was no investment in personnel and infrastructure, that he would be able to provide medium-term sustainable public health as minister, that primary health and strengthening of him was one of his priorities, health homes and programmes, and that of course it was necessary to know that we had the most patients with arterial diseases, stroke and cancer, that there was a need to strengthen preventive programmes, promote health, and that there was a need to strengthen outpatients on the ground and establish health centres. Those were his opening remarks. Besides, of course I'd like to be in the infirmary, but maybe here he can do more for all of us than in the infirmary. From this point of view, I think that there is a very good candidate who is aware that health is a great value for society and that, finally, each of us is responsible for a healthy lifestyle. He also mentioned that the unhealthy years that we survive are reaching us somewhere after 65 years, and consequently the reduced mobility of optimisation of health care is needed, in order to strengthen the patronage service, health care. And most importantly, even today you have seen that vaccination is the most effective form in fighting the crown. While I was fighting the crown, today it was also mentioned that everything was wrong, that rapid antigen tests were not effective, that there were too many breakthroughs or possibly false results. Let me just tell you a case where one of the health workers in the field who performs these rapid antigen tests told me that, in Slovenia, where these units are doing tests and where there are too many deviations, there are too many positive tests, which then PCR tests show, in a few cases, there was, I'll say, a human error. Because they left these rapid antigen tests in the external units, it looks like in the containers, and they froze at night, they were all fake. Because they were frozen because they weren't cleaned up at night. So it's not just going over the thumb to evaluate, but it's going to have to be looked at individually, from unit to unit, what was going on there, and why there were some possible different deviations. I must say, at the hearing, I was personally very pleased with the candidate's responses to Minister Janez Poklukar. I must say, he has shown extraordinary knowledge of the health system and also of the subject that is close to me, including knowledge of oncology. He took and said that he would commit to arranging new forms of treatment for cancer patients, CAR-T technology in the haematology department. He pointed out several times that a clean room is already being prepared and that this technology is supposed to be already in Slovenia in May and that treatment should also be provided. He noted that he also supported proton therapy that would enable patients to have treatment in Slovenia and not abroad, because the environment is also different because the patient also needs a home environment, parents and an environment in which he feels good. I must say that this is a great advance when you hear from the ministers' mouths also hearing and understanding about this form of cancer. It is true that at the moment this enemy covid may be predominant for the treatment and it is all about solving this disease, but after covid, I think, unfortunately, that patients with cancer will still be here where they are. And this is where I see a different thinking that he is aware of it and that he supports it. If I look at just a little research that I've read a little bit about in the last few days, I can say that over the next five years it is predicted that chemotherapy or the treatment of cancer patients will be individualised. I was most surprised and glad that within a year almost a breast cancer vaccine would be developed. I think this is a very rapid development of science in the field of oncology as well. And everyone who's been there has heard the candidate think he's going to become a minister. He's got a lot to brag about. Colleagues from the committee we visited the UKC a good year ago. We've seen 13 years old, unstructured spaces. It was not clear to all of us how things can happen in modern times, that the unstructured spaces they are heating are causing a cost, but it has not been obvious in the past 13 years that some political will has been willing to do so. The minister's candidate did so within ten days. It began on 29 October 2020 and the first patients were admitted on 9 November. It is aware of the importance of personnel in the Slovenian public system. He said he was aware that it was necessary to establish a system that would allow doctors to stay in Slovenia, so that we would have a sufficient number of medical staff. Of course, it is also based on mutual relations, including the arrangement of the pay system, and also on the possibility of developing a career. He warned of narrow throats in health care. We all know what these tight throats are. Narrow throats are infrastructure and equipment. He's been renovating a pandemic plan that hasn't been renewed in the last 20 years. It's a matter of course, and that's a great achievement. If you listened carefully, the minister finally said that he wanted to cooperate, that he was open to proposals, and in particular said he wanted us to listen, hear and understand. Those are big words. I have to say I believe them. I believe them because he warned these days and probably all your colleagues have heard that if you had the chance to inoculate an older population, how much less hospitalisation would be. I think he said that if they were over 75 years old, only half of them would be hospitalized. It is said that vaccination is one of the most effective forms in the fight against covid. Of course, the mask, disinfection, and distance are still very important. I would like to see, as the Health Committee and also as Members in the coming months, the good management of the Ministry of Health and to be able to listen, hear and understand in particular. We're all on this boat together in the fight against covid. Everybody. All our co-vids have changed our lives, and together we can resist it. In this area, I think we can work together in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli, get Moica the Boxer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. If a person listened to one of three such debates as we have heard now, as a colleague described it, one would say that he is an ideal person. As described in her position, a colleague from SDS, the only one, it is said, is the only person in Slovenia who can solve this situation right now. So there's nothing else. He's not here. The best man. You gave 12 minutes just to thank him for answering all the questions you asked, everything you needed. What are we even doing here? This is an ideal man, not a problem. All that's missing is that the Prime Minister himself could put up a stamp and say, "This one's ours, done." Well, that's gonna happen slowly if we don't do a little more careful work here. I don't object to him, far from it. I see him as serious, I see him in one of those optics, so I can really make it. Of course not in an ideal, 130, 120 percent, just like you were talking about him. At the hearing, which I liked, I had to say, I wasn't there myself, but I was listening, and I liked that he went to public health. But here I think it's going to be a very difficult wedge of this public health. I'll tell you why. Because it is you in the coalition who are now in charge of public health. So it's going to be hard for a man to get inside this society of yours because you're thinking completely different. But well, let's be surprised. I hope that he will really keep his word on public health, that public health will remain a priority as we want in the SAB. You know, we're a little afraid of what his vision will be, what his view of these so-called amphibians will be, and what millions of other problems will arise. But let's just say that's it. There has been a lot of controversy all these days, not just now, talking for quite some time, reading and thinking about it, and it's about the price of hospitalization. I was interested, but since he'll have time, he'll get the questions from the Members, which is also right, but let's leave him alone a little bit, let him get in there and get his position. Then I'm sure we'll bomb him a little bit with all the things I think our mission is like the opposition. Constructive opposition, I repeat, we belong to that category. I don't want to believe everything the media is writing, that we had so many hospitalized people, that they got 8,000 euros, and 16 euros, and 46 even for those who were on the pipes. But no matter what, I don't want to be there in that situation. But I'm afraid that's almost true at some point. If it's the only UKC, and if this anonymity is true that they're in red numbers, then it's true that it's here to imagine what's going on in our health care with this money. Even all the hospitals have fixed red numbers by having these people hospitalized for so long. I repeat what I read, I don't say anything else, but think about what a person reads. Do you understand? And then you have to believe what's going on here. You know what's weirdest? But the strangest thing is, one thinks a little bit and says, look how it's possible that within one week they've dropped hospitalizations by half. Ten days ago, we had 2,000 of them, then suddenly the numbers drop. I'm talking about it, but I know it fell by 50% in one week. Isn't that a little strange? These numbers, aren't they thrown up a little artificial? I'm wondering, because there must be some truth to this. We've all really started looking, everybody's looking, we've been in the middle of the sick in one week. Positive, I mean. Let's stop, see what he has to say about this. What I missed, I must say, is a clear answer regarding the so-called grown hemp for medical purposes. We asked him twice, asked him twice, and he never once said what his opinion and attitude were. He will have a written question, which he will have to answer, what his position is and how he sees it. That's an important argument. I think it's a good thing to take her on. What we hope for in the SAB is one other thing. We hope that it will speed up this vaccination because we have had enough of these lies and deceptions that we have witnessed since December. These plans that don't last, these numbers that aren't real. In Russia, a third vaccine has now been approved. This was written yesterday, and you saw what the truth is. Let a few people imagine what's going on. If that's true, there are 2 million of us and we boast when we get 20,000 doses of vaccine in one week, it's going to take exactly two years to get the vaccine. But you must know that the second year will have to be revaccinated. I can't imagine, I really can't imagine what this calendar is like, and I hope it does a little bit of order as a crisis manager. At least in this respect, I see him as good. Not as a health expert, but as a crisis manager who will understand that priorities here are a little different. I have the pervasive feeling that Janez Janša somehow wants to fit him with one of these inappropriate status states, because this is an inconvenient status of the state, so that he can preside smoothly so that he does not have problems. Just to say, you've issued a decree now that you can hang out with up to 10 people, but you can't protest. So you can hang out, but if ten of them come in and say they don't agree to certain measures, it's forbidden. This is a clear picture of what this is all about, and it's clearly stated where you're going. We've become practically the servants of one person, so it's clear that we understand what this is all about. And to conclude, only so that this man can, I'll say, I have confidence in him, I'm not so negative about him, because I can trust him. I think it's a shame because I saw that he was good at the hospital in the fall. And here as head of the UKC. I'm a little surprised by these millions of credits, and I'm a little surprised by the investment in this hospital in UKC, because we know exactly that those figures are pretty high, pumped up, if you say so, someone made a big use of it. But it'll come out and we'll see what it is. I'd only want one more thing from him, and here I hope that, as a minister, he'll hit the table too, if he said that we would end up testing the store employees once because it's stupid. When it was the black stage, no one was tested. Poor cabbies here in the front, we hold onto them, so you'll know, because this is stupid when we were in the black phase, no one was tested, it was all right when they were solving the problem of transportation, but now we want to hit them. [[…]] Mainly, I would tell the future minister, not to let go, not to change, because I consider him positive in thinking he won't change once he steps on this train of madness that we see here today. Let's be clear that it doesn't change, and I want to be the only thing I can do for him. We will not vote against him in the SAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, indeed, we never opposed John the Ripper. Even when Minister LMŠ proposed it in the UKC, we said he proposed a good, competent man, and we still repeat that. So maybe we didn't understand each other that we had any way of changing the way we looked at it. He was appointed Minister of LMŠ Šabeder as Director-General of UKC. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u36	Thank you very much. For many years, Ljubljana and Ljubljana have been surprisingly observing the upgraded part of UKC Ljubljana, which has not moved from the point of death for a long time. The new director, Dr. Poklukar, managed to move the building and we got new usable spaces, especially welcome now that the covida crisis is here. Dr. Poklukar is not just a theorist or an official who observes the system from afar, he is a practitioner who has done something in his life and proved that he can work with things, that he can also work with people. Whoever had this sad opportunity to face the disease in recent years was led by Dr. Poklukarja in the UK to experience dedicated teams who actually devote their knowledge and time to their patients and are supreme. That's what you have to say. So this is where Dr. Poklukar can only be given a big confession. Our expectations, expectations of users, users and taxpayers are that the public health system offers a truly good service. I take the public health system as a system that is provided to the valet, without exception. I do not care whether the public health service provides public service, concessionaire or private. It is important that the service is of quality and that they take time for me. It seems important to me from the taxpayer's point of view that the system is fair and professional and efficient. It's the same with a basket of rights. What rights are those that are guaranteed as mandatory rights for us, users, potential patients, and the question that both experts and decision makers have to answer is that of us who allocate funds. It's a compromise between what we want and what we can do. However, it must be based on justice and efficiency. I think there is also a need to control the use of funds. All too much we've been witnessing strange stories about veins we've overpaid for. How many people have waited too long because of how many people died too early? And it is right to work fairly and effectively with taxpayers. Dr. Poklukar is certainly the guarantor of that. I hope that he will also succeed in digitising health care. I don't understand why we don't have electronic files yet, which would also include a description of the service and the price of the service, so not only the doctor, but also the patient, the patient could have access to their file, of course with all the necessary safeguards to avoid abuse. I think we're also preventing an important issue. NIJ offers many preventive programmes, and the question is whether we, citizens and citizens, also decide on these preventive programmes. I hope and wish that Dr. Poklukar will be successful in this area as well and that he will nevertheless prepare a strategy to stimulate people so that we can also take care of our own health. As far as doctors are concerned, I personally believe that admission to medical school should not only be a result of a super-excellent certificate, but also a discussion on how motivated candidates are for this profession and what competences they have. It is not only the competences of knowledge, understanding, but also the competences of feeling, compassion and knowledge of working with people. Everyone in Slovenia is very promising from the new Minister of Health. Even in Ljubljana, we want to solve the difficult problem of family doctors, we lack it, and we want a nursing hospital. Of course, we are not the only ones in Slovenia, there are still many wishes. European funds are also coming, with which the new Minister of Health can also help improve the material situation of our health. I am pleased that such a quality person will complete the government, where very good experts are already working, and I am sorry that I have to listen to some fellow Members who have spoken ill of the government. On the contrary, Dr. Poklukar would certainly not have decided if he didn't know he was coming into the company of great people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the following word, and Mr Sonibo Knezak is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected government in absentia, but of course a respected candidate for Minister Janez Poklukar, who is most likely to accompany us through the media as well! As a financial analyst, a man of control, my debate will, of course, be based on this starting point. That is exactly what I asked the Minister at the hearing from this point of view, but unfortunately I did not get satisfactory answers. I'm not gonna judge in advance. He's really as good a crisis manager as some of you represent. Now he is in another role, which is also quite political, and in this place he will certainly have to show and prove himself. So you have to wait. Slovenian public health is good and friendly mainly from the perspective of accessibility to all peoples and populations. And that's exactly what makes us different in the world and attracts a lot of countries to study our model. This advantage was shown right at the time of the covida-19 epidemic that Slovenian health care was quickly adaptable both in the first and especially in the second wave, as we did not technically and organisationally prepare ourselves as some other countries did. I must mention, above all, Austria and Germany, which has done a great deal in this respect over the summer, but unfortunately we have left everything to health care itself, that they needed to know each other, as they knew and knew during this period. Only in the last time we were in the middle of a second wave did the government approach. The first wave and the second wave were mainly placed on the shoulders of health personnel in hospitals, in health homes, and also in nursing homes. Above all, we must thank today for all of this, as we are. But there are many more problems. This will require urgent action and the Minister has a real challenge to ensure the effective functioning of the health system in the future after the epidemic. Of course, this is not enough to in itself guarantee a health standard that we know in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Scandinavian countries. There are certainly more causes, but above all we must mention the following. Financial resources that we can collect according to the GDP created. This is where the basic problem begins, since in Slovenia we only collect 2 000 euros per capita. We like to refer to Austria and Germany, where they collect up to 4 000 euros. And now let's see, just like we do in Austria, we give Germany about half of that collected for wages. We're left with drugs, equipment, investments. And what's this bill now? In Slovenia, we have only a thousand euros left then for this area. In Austria, Germany, 2 000 euros. And these prices aren't once higher, but they're kind of comparable. However, their wages are once higher, and so much more for wages if we look at them nominally. This is the basic problem when we sometimes argue in the National Assembly, share who we would take, whom we would give, how everything else is good, and forget about the fact that we are running out of financial resources. The second fact, which also relates to financial resources, is the fact that Slovenia devotes 8% of GDP to health, Austria a good 10%, Germany a good 11%. Can we imagine that in Slovenia we could give 11% of GDP, that is to say 3% more to be comparable to Germany? That would give us 1.3 billion. So where or where to take someone is, of course, the question here. However, we can work more on how to raise GDP to €60 billion per year, as our target has been set and set by the economy. Of course, at the same percentage of GDP for health care would also get 1.3 billion. Unfortunately, it will not be enough again, as other countries are also increasing their GDP and increasing health resources all the time. This leaves us with an increase in productivity, better use of equipment and personnel, rationalisation of business, costs and more. Here is the problem that Slovenia, politics and the good health profession cannot solve or, in my opinion, I hope to say that many times it does not want to solve. At the hearing on this question, the candidate for the minister did not give the clear answer I was setting out, except that he somehow said it would be very difficult and that it would work. If we move on, let's see where the problems are and why we don't know, and we don't want to solve them. It is still the first and most important thing to me, even in joining the National Assembly, I have started to mention this, setting up a network according to standards and standards is a key measure to ensure fair organisation of work for healthcare professionals, given their monitoring of productivity or burdens, underburdens or even overburdens, as for patients who have the right to work according to standards and standards to the necessary time and quality of treatment. All of this is important, and one network would solve all of this. Primary health care is important, as the candidate stressed in his presentation. In particular, this primary health care is important in terms of quality of treatment with a properly targeted triage. Doctors are now overloaded at primary level and, for reasons of responsibility to the patient and also for their safety, send the patient on the shortest route for further consideration, but unfortunately, they do not see the target, since there is little time for this. The patient is thus found not to have needed medical treatment or treatment with a specialist or to have not been referred to a necessary specialist. This wastes time, overburdens secondary health care, creates waiting periods. By strengthening primary health care at this level, patients could be better and faster taken care of and relieve secondary health care. We could make a lot of it out of that. Next. It is necessary to provide financial resources for basic equipment at regional hospitals as well as the necessary personnel for the provision of these services. This is the basis for removing the bottlenecks we know in production and thus eliminating waiting periods and unnecessary travel of patients to other regions. How many millions do we use to shorten waiting lines? For funds, offices or outpatients who are able to perform additional work are to be applied for more. And what have we done with it? In the short term, we have mainly solved something in the waiting line, the health teams are even more burnt out, and unfortunately the basic problem remains. Why are we not going to purchase modern equipment and replace spent equipment? Why don't we use the funds to get more admissions to medical school, to get people from abroad, to get rewards by effect, and so on and so forth, I wonder. Let me illustrate this with two examples. Last year we heard about the example of the Kranj Health House. They have a modern ultrasound, but they have no professional staff since the beginning of 2019, so doctors. That's what they can get. A doctor from Serbia wants to move to Kranj and work here. What's that supposed to do? It's going to be a good year and we still haven't arranged for a doctor to come, we've heard that from the public. When possible, it will take another year to learn the Slovenian language at level C1. As I've heard, the director of the nursing home has now solved this problem by giving concessions to private people. Yes, private, because we can't administratively red tape the most basic matters. On the other hand, our nurses and doctors go abroad well, overnight. How many such cases do you think there are in Slovenia? Unfortunately, we can't know because we don't have a background check. The second case concerns the lack of equipment. The hospital Slovenj Gradec has a 32-year-old gamma camera. Modern gamma camera provides up to 36 important investigations, which are crucial for rapid and reliable diagnosis of specialists. Specialists at this hospital do not trust this old device, which has only 20% capacity in relation to the new device and is significantly less reliable. This is how they send patients to other regions, Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana, where they can come first, and thus waste time for the patient, the patient has to see a doctor several times, in different places and again increase waiting types. Do we not see what it is that is a narrow throat to remove them and thus permanently resolve bottlenecks and reduce waiting types? See, funds to shorten waiting periods, we prefer to purchase missing equipment by region and the problem will be resolved permanently. On my question to the Minister of Health, however, I get the answer that the hospital has already received so much and so much money in the past and is now not on the table. This is, for example, if I set a case again, as if we were setting up a new production plant in the economy, but we wouldn't buy a key machine in the production process. Thus, for a certain stage, we should drive semi-manufactured products to another manufacturer, generate unnecessary costs, waste of time and, and, and could list. [[…]] How many such cases do you think there are in Slovenian health care? I'm afraid we can't know again because we don't have a background check. If you want to control the system and run it successfully, you have to have data, you have to have a control system. Do we have it? Of course, we do not have it if, in the spring of the first wave in three months, the government could not even count the fans in these 15 hospitals. We've been following this clearly for months and we've seen what's going on. Of course, it's pretty ironic to say, a little bit of a splinter, you could say that it came out in public as if we didn't know how to count it. If there was indeed greed here, you probably agree, because in modern times, if there was no information system already, we could use the phone, emails and, no later than two days, although I assure you that this data was already in the Ministry on February 25th or 28th 2020, because our government had already requested it. Certainly, without an effective information system, it is not possible to place these necessary networks of Slovenian health care according to standards and standards, as I mentioned earlier, which is the key to the desired objectives of modern and effective and rational health care. In all governments so far, whether left or right or central, all ministers have said that there are no obstacles, no resistances, many different existing systems that do not allow it, and so on and so forth. I have received an answer from the Minister of Health to my questions raised regarding the establishment of a single review system in the field of human resources and equipment needs, the use of equipment by region or according to specific specialities. I also have this answer on four sides, where a specific question has also been raised. And see how interesting, the Ministry of Health's response: “A single review on the needs of staff and equipment has not yet been established”. In addition, at the end of 2015, the Government began to monitor, at the end of 2015, the warnings or corrective actions of the Court of Auditors, which I have here before me, activities to monitor the effectiveness of medical equipment management, with a focus on expensive medical equipment, and listed 15 of these equipment, which should be managed. Guidelines on the keeping of records of medical equipment in public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, have only been issued 1. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There were also changes to the instructions. On the basis of instructions, the Ministry of Health has set up a computer application for the collection of data in the database which will enable the analysis of the use of medical devices on the basis of the collected data on each registered device in public health institutions, of course for a particular hospital or department called EDMO, they have said that the project has been shortened. In the further phase of the development of the EDMO project, it is envisaged that all activity data in the use of devices will also be linked to waiting lists and further analysis, or also due to a lack of volume of services provided on individual devices or on all devices or possibly too few devices. In short, there is no doubt about the need for new or more powerful devices, for this can make a significant contribution to reducing waiting species. That's what I want, so things could be resolved. And why is my introduction, look at him, a fragment? According to the response of the Ministry of Health, which says, among other things, “the records of the trustees of EDMO and the responsible persons by public health institutions are established and are no longer updated after 2017”. One such response was that all public health institutions have not yet provided credible and reliable transmission of all the required data. What does that tell you, colleagues and colleagues? Indeed, I wonder whether the Minister of Health is just a puppet at the Ministry of Health, even though he poses or gives his consent to the hospital directors. I wonder further where the reasons are that public health establishments do not comply with such important guidelines. Do public health institutions fear transparency by the Ministry of Health? Is it possible that doctors fear that their productivity will now be demonstrated, that who in one hospital may have only 10 outpatient checks, and that others may have 30 or even 40? Or are hospitals afraid of finding out that they have the equipment they need, but for which there are no operators, and on the other hand, do they have obsolete equipment or do they not have it at all? I'm sure you don't. Ministers are coming and going, probably not getting too familiar with the system and activities, but the Directorates at the Ministry of Health remain, and also a large part of this staff, which has been there for years with all their duties they have received. Basic question: where is the problem of strategic management of hospitals and the link to the Ministry of Health so that we cannot bring such projects to life? Where are the responsibilities of the focal points? Let me illustrate what I'm saying with an example from the economy. We all know the Swedish multinational Ikeo who sells furniture. Every year it's 40 billion traffic. These are just four budgets in Slovenia or two if you took all four cash registers. Ikea has about 400 sales centers around the world, about a billion traffic on average to the center. Ikea is based in the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Sweden, because she has four-part optimisation of taxes. They have online data on all stocks, daily traffic, the number of items sold daily, weekly, monthly, annually, of course to manage the sales effects strategy. So a centrally processed, assigned information system at all levels, vertically and horizontally for 400 centimetres around the world, gathering in one center. What do you think? Can we imagine that any of the leaders in the centres would not send data, orders, for about a month? What do you think would happen if those responsible for the information system did not ensure the functioning of the system that is directed to them? How do you feel about the state of Ikea's multinational if we manage the information system the way they manage it in Slovenian health care? How would customers react to such a situation? How would you react to competition? It's just that I set up plastic on purpose so that we can understand better and know what's going on with us. So I said, it doesn't matter whether she's left or right or she's central government, but we can't solve the problem. And another short matter of how Ikea works with the cost. We've all been to Ikea. There we have disposable pencils, where we write down what we're going to take, that item, and then we go to the warehouse, we take it into that flat packaging and it's done. One of the cases where they said how many millions of costs are spent a year with a pencil. The founder of Ikee illustrated it with a pencil. He took a pencil, broke it and got two pencils. And the costs are halved. A little for the intermezzo, how you do the costs rationally. So Slovenian healthcare already has a central register of patient data, the so-called CRPP. On this basis, we have an already well-functioning e-passenger project, which has in practice presented the whole revolution in progress in this area. This is one very bright point that we were able to achieve. Then why is the project standing from here again? Who doesn't want to follow us? This may, however, also be the case at the Oncology Institute, where in February 2020 policy, of course, also the world of the institution in the first place, has stopped the project of rationalisation of the information system for at least half a year. Fortunately, it continued six months later, and today the result is seen that costs of approximately one million euros per year for information systems have practically been fished out. With a substantial change, the signature of a contract with the contractors per key, instead of a year and years earlier, the contractual operation on democracy - you know what that means, don't you? - which has been pulling projects for months and years, increased costs and health care has been working in a spasm. We must probably not have this kind of action and political interference in our pride. I have also personally faced the damage that politics can do when it puts my fingers where it is not necessary. Look, it's no wonder that in the past things have happened to us about the purchase of drugs, materials and equipment, such as surgical beds, walls or vascular braces, hip braces and much more. If the Ministry of Health does not have a basic review of the operations of 15 regional hospitals, including two UKCs, Golnik and those of the smaller hospitals, the totals are 26. I would also like to touch on the issue of the award of concessions and the work of doctors outside the hospitals where they are employed. Here I wonder how it is even possible for the hospital director to grant a concession or work outside the office to doctors for an activity where the institution already has a staff deficit and are waiting types in the public office in this area. There are also cases where even directors and professional directors or heads of departments do so themselves. This is how they get the public administration into red numbers, and these same patients are examined elsewhere. How is this even possible without seeking responsibility for action and sanctioning? I'm probably sorry again because the Minister doesn't have a review of this because he doesn't have a proper information system and he's reviewing everything. I'll draw attention to the lack of medical personnel, and the Minister has also pointed out this. That was also the case with Zuyf’s actions. We know that Zuyfa and I were banned. Until 2019, until we put an end to this problem, this problem has also been the case. Medical faculty and nurses' schools, medical technicians produced their own staff. Because it didn't work for us, they went to work abroad. Another important question has been raised in connection with this in these days. I took into account the audit report of the UKC Ljubljana Court of Auditors issued in January 2018 for business in 2014-2015. As many irregularities as have been identified in this audit report, it is incredible. That's very worrying. The report shall include recommendations to address irregularities. A request has been made for the submission of a response report by corrective measures. Now if we keep going. On the other hand, I have read the tasks and mission of the internal audit of the UKC which, of course, it has, which says, inter alia, that the primary task of the internal audit is to prevent the failures of the business processes and to cooperate with the supervision of the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, however, I did not see in this Court of Auditors report that an internal audit of this service would be involved. With the arrival of Mr Janez Poklukar at the head of UKC Ljubljana, she was among the first measures to dissolve the internal audit service. However, one would expect the Director to strengthen such a service on arrival in the light of the Court of Auditors’ conclusion, rather than disband it. Mr Janez Poklukar, a candidate for Minister, answered this question at the hearing, although he said that his job was ineffective, and this is the reason for the dissolution. Now he's looking for external contractors, probably still, maybe even that's true, of course, if that's true. I myself wonder why the Ministry of Health does not organise such a service at the Ministry itself and from this position carry out an internal audit by the public health authorities, if it already has certain services organised to verify the integrity of business and to verify corruption. Then why doesn't he have any financial-accounting experts? In any case, such a service should be more effective from the City of the Ministry of Health than within the Office where everyone knows each other. I also find this to be a member of the Children's Heart Surgery Commission and the purchase of materials and equipment, where we investigate backwards and I keep getting this question about how ineffective it was all together. This conclusion points out to me and our LMŠ Group, of course, with great doubts as to whether the candidate will meet our expectations as Minister of Health in the light of such findings that we find on the contrary. We hear, too, the minister said he would rationalize hospitals, laboratories, microbiological laboratories, which are today a compass for doctors and for rapid diagnostic action. This was particularly evident at the time of the epidemic, that they received these results very quickly within an hour. Every hospital in Europe, not only large and medium-sized, has labs like I said, that's their compass, and I can't imagine that these hospitals would lose it. This is something that all hospitals are very alert to. I asked Mr Poklukar because I know that he has already joined the establishment of a microbiological laboratory in Jesenica, and the government, we know that for almost a year he has been trying to stop it by regions and centralize it, although in these national laboratories there are a lot higher prices for these services than in these local ones, they also have all the certificates. I could still mention health problems, but let me finish with the question. Will the candidate for Minister Janez Poklukar be a tried-out crisis manager, as we have heard several times today, on this mission? It will set up a transparent health system and measures so that we can take advantage of the internal benefits of increasing productivity and reducing operating costs, which I see as a priority, rather than hiring new credits if we do not have the other issues resolved. This is the only way to keep public health, which is friendly to all citizens and citizens. This is the only way we can offer patients more for the money we have at our disposal and, of course, it is limited. The continuation of privatisation in the field of health will only lead to an even greater gap between the rich and the less wealthy, those with a minimum wage, pensioners, disabled persons and could still be listed. Believe me, if privatisation continues, as we know it elsewhere, even in Italy, this problem will be greater every year. I have too many doubts as to whether Mr Janez Poklukar's candidate for Minister will meet his expectations. Above all, I cannot believe, given the current practice of Prime Minister Janez Janša, that he will allow the future minister to lead the Ministry of Health by his professional decisions. This has also proved to be true until now, so they also resigned. That's not how I'm gonna take down a candidate today. The responsibility is on the coalition and you can confirm it yourself and also answer for the decisions you will take forward. It is also a traditional practice in Slovenian parliamentaryism that the opposition does not confirm the ministers of the coalition. And we'll stick to it ourselves. However, I certainly wish the future minister good luck, especially in the interests of patients and also healthcare workers. For one and the other are in an unenviable situation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Sonibo Knezak, Mr Gregor Perič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I would also like to welcome today's candidate, Mr Janez Janša, but he does not seem worthy to sit in this meeting. In my brief discussion, I do not really mean to give prescriptions on how to regulate our health care and what the problems of our health care are, but today's session is intended to say a few words about the candidate himself. I, Mr Janez Poklukar, basically what I know, I know him most of the time from the media, and I basically associate him with two stories. The first is the story of the successful rehabilitation of the hospital in Jesenica. It's an interesting, beautiful story that's too small in health care. The second is, of course, his service, or part of his professional career, which he is taking as director of UKC for a good year, according to our largest healthcare institution in the country. To be able to say, at least for what I know about running the UKC, we can't talk about some good story, some great results. The fact is that the institution essentially has the highest debt in the history of its existence, that it owes suppliers more than €10 million, and there are also some of these indicators, which do not specifically speak of a good story in the area of running a clinical centre. However, it is also necessary to be corrected here, there is a short time in this function and, of course, in assessing its work in the UKC, it is also necessary to take into account that the functioning of this largest healthcare facility has been essentially subordinated to the fight against covido in the last year. Unfortunately, I had no opportunity to accompany or attend the hearing session. However, I have been monitoring this session on television, although I must say that the question arose to me whether I was following the same meeting when I listened to the chairman of the committee as she described the progress of this meeting. I didn't see it like that in the superlatives of the proposed candidate. What I saw was that there were rather unanswerable questions, questions that he did not answer, or that he succinctly slipped away from them. What my knowledge is about the proposed candidate is, I would say, is that it is no doubt for a person who has a long-term medical record, that he knows the health system, and that it is also one of the few who are in these leading positions in health and also has some managerial knowledge. All of this probably also botched his successful rehabilitation of the hospital in Jesenica. The only thing I can't say to the proposed candidate is that I resent it, but I think it's better if I say that I don't actually count him well, is that, in fact, as a relatively good candidate, he has agreed to run for office in a bad government. Now I don't know if it was his wish. There has also been some information circulating in the parliamentary corridors in recent days, that he did not actually have the right choice. Take it or leave it. Take it or say goodbye to the directorship in UKC. I don't know, but given the way and the way this government operates, I would also allow it to be one of the possibilities. Because of all this, he decided to participate, as I have mentioned, in a bad government, in a government that I do not support, in a government that will also be in the final phase of a short century, and especially in a government where he will unfortunately not be able to exercise some of his professional skills acquired over the years of his professional career, because he must be aware that he is coming to the government, where in fact all decisions are taken by the greatest expert in all areas, a defender with two months of experience also in the fields of health, Mr Janez Janša. That'll be what he'll have to rent or when he's confirmed his candidacy. For all of this, I would say that it is a candidate who has enough knowledge that even if I did not participate, as I said, in a bad government, I would add my pebble to the mosaic of some better health in the future. But unfortunately, because of all that I have said, in particular to join a government that I do not support and estimate that it works poorly, I regret not to give it my voice today. But it's not a vote against him as a candidate, it's actually more of a protest against the work of this existing government. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, the practice is that the coalition will vote in favour of the candidate you have proposed in the coalition, proposed by your Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič, Mr Miha Kordish is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! We have a choice before us today, in essence, whether we will support or not the candidate for the new Minister, Mr Poklukar. Even when I listen to the debates of my fellow Members, it is in fact increasingly about how to find an argument, whether the candidate is good or not good, whether he is competent or not competent, at least from the point of view of the opposition, how not to support it, because it is hygienic if you are in opposition to what the government is proposing, even if it is not a good government or if it is not our government that you do not support. It seems a little strange to me because we always speak in politics that we want to be in the most responsible places especially good, quality people who have already shown something that is then used as a basic and fundamental criterion, not whether it is ours or not, or whether it is one of those or different colors or wears one or the other. Today we have heard in these debates that it is particularly important whether it is ours or not. This is further confirmed by the fact that Mr Poklukar has been appointed director of the UKC. We know that it is a very large system, one of the largest systems we know in Slovenia, and it is very difficult to manage, it turns a very large amount of money and it is actually difficult to control. This system, at least as far as I can remember, has given birth to several health ministers. It's a case like this now. In fact, someone who proves to be there or who survives is also an indicator that he can be moved or tested in the most responsible place in the field of health, that is, for the minister. If Mr Poklukar was trustworthy to have appeared in the post of director of UKC in the previous government, and now I hear a number of criticisms at his expense when he is competing for the post of Minister of Health, just by those who have appointed him as director of UKC, I think all these speeches are mainly political, with expertise, to be done with more professional criteria. However, it is always so that in politics, even today, very many of some health professionals, very many doctors, although if we looked around the hall, even if it were full, we would find that we have one doctor in our ranks, this is Dr. Žiza, who was also a professional director, and everyone else is just following and reading an article and creating an opinion. I will say that I am personally grateful to Mr Poklukar that he has accepted this challenge in these difficult times, which is not simple. We know that finding a Minister of Health is also a very difficult project in the “peace-keeping” times, not only in times when the epidemic is spreading and when we know how we have dealt with this area in the past. I believe that if there were more sincere will and readiness in the past years and in past governments, it would also be easier to deal with this pandemic. But since we were more than concerned with such or other prestigious issues and took advantage of every opportunity that came from the outside whenever a minister wanted to make an improvement so that he could, in his own words, get it over his head because of such or other media reports that were paid on a number of occasions by certain stakeholders just to fail or disperse the minister, we have a situation that we have. So once again, I am grateful for Mr Poklukar's courage and, above all, I wish him a great deal of strength and strength because he will need just that. However, the fact is that we, whether we are in government or not in government or somewhere in the middle, will have a very strong impact on how successful Mr Poklukar will be in the future. If we sit on individual spines, on individual affairs that will arise, because of such or other desires for changes, this will go to the nose and he will not want these changes, because because of these changes, there will be less or no money, if we transfer these stories to the political field and start some calculations, then Mr Poklukar, as Minister of Health, will also be a figure who will be weak and will fail to make certain positive changes. So it's not only the minister's responsibility, it's not just the government, it's not only the Prime Minister's responsibility, but it's also very dispersed across the political space, so on all of us. We're going to prove ourselves here or we're going to, I hope not, prove ourselves again and show how we know how to spend such opportunities. I would not go into the individual moves or decisions of Mr Poklukar when he was still the director of the UKC, even this famous question that arose about why to end or not to end the internal audit. Those who have worked in a somewhat larger system, especially in public, know that these internal audits can be good or even bad. It is much easier, much more objective, to come up with certain results that are not part of the pressure, when, as an internal auditor, you also do not look at your colleagues, and the colleagues you need to revise, and then you have to write black for them that they have made certain mistakes and warn them, and these mistakes still appear. Therefore, in this aspect, if a system wants to make some improvements, it sees that this is extremely difficult and will receive many resistances, much easier to find some external experts who will do so with much less or no pressure, bring some paper and then much less internal objections or objections to make certain improvements. This is just my thinking, but I don't know how the UKC works, but I can say from practice that it could be, I think it's the main reason for this move. As a Member, I am also a member, because we sometimes have a staff function, not just a government or some other body, but also Members of Parliament, sometimes we decide about people in the most responsible positions, which makes me most angry, but it is that we get an anonymous, anonymous e-mail with certain particulars just before the decision is made, so that the individual candidate gets blackened. I must say that such things strengthen me even more in the belief that the candidate deserves support and that they do not weaken me in this sense. If anyone has a history that needs to be clarified, I believe that these things appear at the right moment, not five before the twelfth, so that only a bit of unrest is introduced and then speculated in the most obscenity, and in fact in a way that anyone who is found in anonymity cannot even substantiate the arguments. The use of such funds is incorrect and I think we should all avoid them if we are to have a minister who will succeed in his work and will be able to make some moves, as we say. We talked a lot about our health problems. As it is said, we all suddenly became experts, and then in practice we see that this is unseemly harder. I would point out only one aspect. We all know that we are in an epidemic and that perhaps the most fundamental issue is the vaccine. So vaccines are a problem mainly from the supply point of view. We were all counting on them to be delivered in many larger numbers and in many shorter periods. It turned out to be different, so here I continue to count on the negotiating power of the European Union and the European Commission, and in the meantime we will all have to continue to respect the measures. I can say, at least with regard to what I saw in Primorsk during the weekend, that these relaxations in Slovenia are a little too much, so I hope we will not slip back to where we were and do not want them. Therefore, let us continue to respect these measures until we have the vaccine. So the vaccine is something direct, something that we physically interfere with the body as such and is primarily intended to protect, especially the elderly. So that's what this is about today. But what will be important especially in the coming months, and also in the final stages of the years in view of this pandemic, is one other aspect, not this physical one, as I said, but primarily mental. It seems important to me, and here the Minister will have all my support to find certain solutions that have not been answered in the past to provide mental health as such. We know that this area is relatively unregulated, unregulated in the way it could be, and it also deserves inadequately more resources to dream in the future all that is not only physical but also mental. Because I believe that a number of people in our society have experienced many traumas in the face of the loss of a job, in the face of the lack of some social contacts, which will then be seen in many other aspects. And this is something that I would like to find in the future enough political and professional will to find some solution, how to help Slovenian citizens and citizens in this area as well. If I finish. I wish the Minister a successful job, a successful response to challenges, a successful fight or overcoming all the political obstacles that he or she will encounter or be set up by certain structures. Above all, to be able to successfully organise the vaccination process itself and then everything else that will follow. I can only wish the Minister good luck in this situation. He's got my back.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, I will read the next five debaters, given that the list is changing rapidly. Next comes Mr. Miha Kordish, then Alexander Reberšek, mag. Dejan jedan, jozef lenart and mag. Andrei Reich. These are the next ones in this circle. Please, Mr. Kordish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will begin my debate with a reply to the press inquiry I gave before the start of today's session or immediately after the beginning of today's session. It went something like this. The press asked me how we would vote in Levica and that we would probably vote against Mr Poklukar. My first reflection in this response was how else should we vote if we did not get an answer to any question at the marathon meeting of the Health Committee. The candidate for the Minister of Health remained at the level of the general public, remained at the level of intercession in words, went very wide and in a way wrapped around the painful issues surrounding our public health system. In response to the press inquiry, however, I continued with the following. The government of Janez Janša managed to produce a very tragic tax in the first year of its term. The number of excess deaths in this country is record, at the world summit. Not according to some natural characteristics of covida-19, but because of the conduct of power, which rather deals with its own impact on the country than to solve the health situation of citizens and citizens. We are looking at the team of Janez Janša, who in a year produced these excessive deaths, and we can only wonder why the devil would take over anyone after one year Show what you know, on which the government of Janez Janša thoroughly laid down, to take over the ministerial city in this society. So much more so because it is the city of the Minister of Health, at this moment the most exposed source. And that's not the only question that's born, and at least I think the answer to it is getting away. If you are an advocate of public health, if you are truly a strong advocate of public health, as I believe that the vast majority of citizens are citizens and citizens, why would you go to the government's ministerial office, which has made it very clear that the public health system wants to privatise itself. And it also does as much as you can hope.The receptions it uses are relatively soft. Of course, no one in Slovenian politics can stand in front of the cameras and say: but I am in favour of decomposing public health care and replacing it with private profit-making health care, which acts as an economy and not a public service. Any player in Slovenian politics will immediately end his own career, probably the career of his political group. Therefore, advocates of the privatisation of public health also begin each of their theatres with “I am for public health.” And then they continue with how public health is imagined and very quickly after these descriptions we find that public health is no longer a public health care, but it is a privatized health care, which is public, but it is well destroyed. Public health in this country is considered a value, so the government of Janez Janša does not directly attack him, rather lowers him in such a way that he richly rewards private practices, even past the public health treasury, where he passes the budget euros of all citizens and citizens. On the other hand, public health is destroying it by subsidizing it. Even in the covida-19 epidemic, he does not want to intervene with an appropriate public financial infusion, knowing that the Slovenian public health system is practically one great magician, one great wizard, to work as well as work, while for decades it has been undernourished and has not obtained a sufficient amount of public funds as it would need them. In particular, as an esteblishment, he likes to repeat that our population is getting old in society. This is a context from which we can judge Mr Poklukar's candidacy as Minister of Health. What he said after he said it was for public health and how he saw public health. I have made three notes, which are significantly ambiguous, and I will now try to deconstruct them in my debate, what concrete content is behind them. Mr Poklukar has said, for example, and this has also been summed up by the media, that it is for public health, but that it is also necessary to think about the status of the transformation of public institutions. In particular, it sounds innocent until we know that the only one who wants to restructure public institutions in Slovenia is a political actor who advocates that this restructuring takes place in the direction of an economic society. Hospitals would no longer be public institutions, they would become companies, they would become companies. Since 2014, I have been participating as an elected Member of the National Assembly, and this is the only restructuring that I have ever heard of, so hospitals are no longer public institutions, non-profit institutions as a service to citizens and citizens, but they turn into economic societies. Health as a commodity, hospital care as a business. If I were to sit in the Chamber with us today, Mr candidate for the Minister of Health, I would specifically ask him what statusal transformation of public institutions he had in mind and why. Let's say we didn't hear those arguments. We have only heard that it would be necessary to make the health system more effective. After this context, as we know it, this would bring more profitable public health to those who want to turn it into a factory at the expense of the health of citizens and citizens. However, it is certainly not more effective when the health problems that people in this country have come to an end. This is some kind of response that I would like from the Minister of Health, what the hell constitutes a status transformation of public institutions. Because all I know about this is transformation into an economic society. Another such ambiguous winged, back in the idea of public health, is that flexible reward mechanisms are needed. There's a lot to hide in that, too. On a general level, we can even agree on this at an abstract level. It's a flexible reward for someone after his contribution, like a pay-as-you-go or whatever, but that does make sense. Perhaps a slightly different light casts on this topic the fact that, periodically, when they arrive on the plan, when they are grabbed by the media, the lists of the best paid public servants in the country are quoted by doctors among the top 50 best paid. If there aren't 50 of them up there, there's 49 of them. Of course not all doctors, but where. Only a specific medical center, which in some cases has even conducted a de facto internal privatisation of public health establishments and has arranged a comfortable nest in which it can collect on-calls, collect supplements and so on, that their wages come up to five city numbers. Surely you will not find on such a list burned, made and for my concepts of the underpaid primary sector of Slovenian health. The one where we're probably having the most trouble with an epidemic or no epidemic. Before we faced a covider-19, let's say, the Gorenian crisis had a personal doctor who the whole country was dealing with, but at the moment, if I'm not mistaken, the number I'm citing after memory, I can afford to fix it, but if I'm not mistaken, there are about 120 thousand, 130 thousand people in this country without a personal doctor. Whom, then, can we expect will be served by flexible reward mechanisms? To whom will they reward, and to whom will they release? Probably the one who's already in position of power in a position of authority within the health system. So be very careful when you mention flexible rewards. This quickly turns from the idea of a fair raise to the realization of unjustifiable privileges. Especially if we find out in this context, but I will not deal with it now, a variety of ideas after leaving the system of public servants, with which the organisations of the medical and insurance lobby are keenly entangled. These ideas are also favoured by the current coalition, in particular by NSI and SDS. Basically, this idea of getting out of the public health service system means legalising internal privatisation within public health institutions, which I mentioned a few minutes ago. And the third point at which I would like to abstain and the third indent of the ambiguity and emptiness of the Minister's responses to health is touched by supplementary health insurance. We know that this is the point at which the former government of Janša fell and fell. Two ministers resigned, one disagreed with the idea of suspension on one side, the other disagreed with the idea of withdrawal on the other. Before that, however, we had a crackdown on the government or the Marjan Sarca coalition and the Left party as the contractual opposition. The minister's candidate says that he would not have abolished the supplementary health insurance, but that it was for his transformation. I think that's the wrong flag in the concept, because you won't even reshape the supplementary insurance if you're going to set your goal at the start. Maybe you can reshape it if it's your goal to stop it. This is not going through realistically. While we are, of course, talking about progressive, progressive, people-friendly interventions in supplementary health insurance, which would eliminate the rate, the deficit in the health treasury would be covered by an increase in contributions. In doing so, they would de facto eliminate commercial health insurance companies at some critical basic level and thus obtain an additional EUR 50 million to finance the solidarity public health system. But given how the candidate for the Minister of Health continued in his replies, we are not talking about it. We are not talking about quitting or transforming supplementary health insurance into something that would benefit people, but we are talking about intervention into a basket of rights. Let me make it clear from the political context of the current government what this means. For the money we are currently paying, we will get citizens and citizens, all the insured, the patients out less. The intervention in the basket of rights in the context of the government of Janez Janša does not mean anything but that the range of health services will be reduced, the set of interventions that we receive for what we are now paying for citizens and citizens. Where other interventions will go, those who fall out of the basket in such a scenario are in the hands of commercial health insurance companies. This is a purely programming agenda, among others, for the coalition parties of New Slovenia, which says that a basket of rights needs to be decommissioned and strengthened by commercial insurance companies, which – I will repeat – are already unjustifiably absorbing EUR 50 million per year from supplementary health insurance. This is €50 million, which is taken quite directly from the financing of healthcare for all citizens and citizens. And we can't let an intervention into a basket of rights in any way, we can't let it. This is also one of the tactics for the privatisation of the Slovenian public health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u46	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleague Miha Kordish, I must respond to your words. But I think all your words are superfluous. This government exists because you didn't want to take responsibility in Levica. You had a chance, you were a super-coalist party, and you overestimated that it was better to speak in the National Assembly than to work in a coalition. It's cheap to collect political points, not take responsibility, responsibilities, as our candidate for Health Minister Dr. Janez Poklukar took. Therefore, all the words you have just said are completely superfluous. We could be a health minister, we could be a defence minister, we could take over education, we could take over practically anything in this country and we could run it. Now to be smart and talk, I think it's too late and especially unnecessary. I would first like to thank former Minister Gantar, who listened not only to my wishes but also to the wishes of the inhabitants of the Lower Savinja Valley. I want to thank him for having arranged for us to get a new dental outpatient for adults in Vranska prior to his resignation in November. I thank him for his obedience. I thank him for his help to our inhabitants and the inhabitants of the Lower Savinja Valley. I believe the new Minister of Health will also have such a hearing. I have to admit, I don't know him personally, but I've heard he's a good listener, and he's a very professional man. It is also distinguished by the good management of some health institutions in the country and in Jesenice, as well as in the UKC Ljubljana. Given that he has run such large health institutions, this means that he only knows how to function well enough, as well as the health system, which I personally claim must be changed. However, he has experience, he is working, he also has the results of good conduct, and he has decided to take responsibility. The Minister's candidate has decided to take responsibility and, with his knowledge, assists in the management of the Ministry of Health. The candidate, Dr. Janez Poklukar, has assumed responsibility. What I would point out here is that he did it despite realizing that he already knows in advance that he will not have the full mandate. Knowing that you won't be able to work for four years, that you're available for, say, one year and something else, says everything. I think that the esteemed Dr. Janez Poklukar has proven that he is not a calculating person, but that he has put first care for health, care for the patient and responsibility for the state. Such a man can only deserve my praise for such courage. I am aware that he will not be able to change the whole system, so that he will not be able to solve all the problems that have arisen under the Ministry in such a short time, and especially because of the ministry of former ministers. I am aware that Dr. Janez Poklukar will come to put out fires that former ministers have not been able to put out in much better times. The candidate for minister will therefore have to face the situation of co-vid and, as I said, the Minister will also have to put out the fires of former ministers. Once again, congratulations on your courage. In particular, I congratulate you on accepting your mandate during the greatest health crisis of our time, which has further highlighted the shortcomings of the Slovenian health system, at a time when the poor functioning of the health system in the past has yet to be demonstrated. Now we're on the move. What we want in New Slovenia is that money follows the patient and not companies that sell medical equipment. In Novi Slovenija we want accessible public health care for all. A man needs to get to a doctor when he needs one, not one year from now. A man has to get to the recorder as soon as he needs it and not in a year. I believe that this will also be the priority of the candidate, for now a candidate for the minister, but I am sure that he will also become a minister. I'd only point out this. In 10 days at UKC Ljubljana, Dr. Janez Poklukar was able to complete the renovation of the premises in virtually nighttime, together with the leadership, in 10 days, and to place them in use in the most critical moments. I think I told you everything. However, I am convinced that the candidate Dr. Janez Poklukar, who comes at one of the most difficult moments for health care when after us the difficult years of hospital operations, the lack of investment in both personnel and infrastructure, will be a good minister of health. I wish him good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan, get Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u48	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to all present. On the committee itself, where I think the debate was a cultured, argumentative one, except for a certain tweet, because someone condemned us to being losers on the opposition's side, but we will talk about it on the committee and we will not disturb today's meeting, I said that the candidate is good news from the bad government. Maybe later I'll tell you more why I think so. However, I would like to say three things that I really want to take seriously by the vote of the coalition, which I suppose will be taken seriously. Allow me to read part of the letter I received by e-mail, but unfortunately I still get the same. The lady wrote to me: “Because of my eye problems, I received an e-mail from a personal doctor with the name “Quick”. I scanned the passenger and e-mailed her to the Celje hospital. In half an hour, a friendly lady calls me and tells me that they do not have free capacity for co-vid and that it is not until 3 to 4 months before I order on the Irman optics. I told her that because of past experience with relatives we are not the most excited to wait for the examination at Celje Hospital.” Ma'am has not received any more calls since then or anything from a specific hospital. Unfortunately, we get a lot of these letters. This is probably a severe undermining of public health care that within public health nurses, health workers, anyone, direct patients elsewhere outside public health care. That is why I have proposed to the Minister that all such practices be severely sanctioned. In health institutions, we have a poorly exploited space, we have underutilized capacities, and we have health workers and workers who are willing to work more. This is also demonstrated by the fact that they work in some other hospitals. The candidate for minister even said, if I recall correctly, that at the UKC they have about five thousand consents. So I appealed to him, he also has our support, the support of the Social Democrats, that if they can, they should see health care as a mission to enable them, with all the ratings they belong to, to make maximum use of existing capacities. Next. In the last ten, twenty years we have been in crisis in Slovenia. You remember, the fiscal rule, and the crisis, both of which are different, we turned each euro one way or another. As a result, there was a significant underinvestment in public health. Many hospitals are such that they do not really serve the current time, they urgently need renovations, we lack some new hospitals, including in Prekmurje, Maribor, Ljubljana and so on. A candidate for a minister who is likely to be a minister would be given two appeals. The first appeal is, please be fair to all Slovenia. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. I know that when it comes to health care, you all start talking about investments in UKC Ljubljana right away. I understand. It's our top-notch facility. We also have some similar top-notch institutions. Last but not least, it is in Maribor UKC Maribor, which covers one third of Slovenia. Do not do what has been done since 2019 because there has been a great injustice to some parts of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, at least I had a feeling that he agreed to this, and this area will be very important to me. And we're different from each other. Today, the obvious situation is different than it has been in recent years. If I have good information, in recent years, probably for a decade, it has been possible to invest at the annual level from the state budget around a billion euros, which was necessary for roads, railways, one way or another. Now we have a unique opportunity to invest an additional €5 billion within the national recovery and resilience programme in a few years. We are in an impossible position in Slovenia because, unlike other countries, most countries where social debate is taking place, what is a priority in the country, by the way, is also the reason that the Italian government has fallen apart and that they have a new government, in Slovenia, that you are hiding it. You're hiding a document that decides our future, because five billion isn't just going to split it up. These five billion must be given where the priority is. For me, one of the priorities is to invest in the missing capacities of Slovenian public health, especially in hospitals, i.e. new premises and adaptation of the old. There's probably at least a billion investments to be made in this place. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. We have not had such opportunities in the last 30 years, and believe me, unless there is a similar crisis, at least I hope, we will never have one again in the future. But I'm really asking you. The voice of the opposition is heard as far as it is. We can speak publicly, we can convene press conferences, emergency meetings of the Committee, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, but we do not have enough votes to determine that the priority of investment is through a national programme for resilience and public health reconstruction. I've read somewhere that only a quarter of a billion euros is spent or wants to be spent. We need a billion euros to build all the missing capacities. And now, only now we have them available. The third thing I have talked to the candidate about is something that I am evaluating at this time for the greatest inequality in Slovenia. You are aware that the system of recognition of occupational diseases is no longer in operation in Slovenia for the last 30 years. I know some people have been listening to this for the third time, for the fourth time, but that's a real problem. According to the latest data I received from the competent ministry, between 70 and 80 thousand invalidity pensions, which are paid by the institution, are only 191 professionals. Expert Dr. Dodič Fikfak estimates that about 25,000 people are disadvantaged. You understand the difference. If a person has a diagnosis of a professional illness, he has a completely different calculation of his occupational and disability pension, such as that in another form of disability pension. This is no longer established in Slovenia, except probably in asbestos. And not only is it important that people are damaged, but this preventive mechanism is gone. Then we are surprised to learn that Slovenia is one of the highest countries or among the highest levels of use of chemicals in the workplace. This is because employers are simply not motivated to do everything they can to avoid occupational illness. Why is this about the candidate for minister? Because there are some things that need to be done. One of the things that doesn't work for us right now is that we don't have a new rules on occupational diseases. The last one that made an important effort was, although I do not agree with her in some matters, the former one, because I do not know which former ones, when health ministers continue to change, Minister Milojka Kolar. It has drawn up a regulation on occupational diseases, which has also gone to public debate, but has clearly not been able to have enough political power to sign and enter into force. This rule lies in a drawer, perhaps something needs to be restored, but it is really important that, with a joint effort, as we have arranged employment rehabilitation, unanimously, 85 votes in favour, none against, as today unanimously, those who have followed 17 for, no one against us have made an important step in the Constitutional Commission, as regards the record of the Slovenian Sign Language, as well as the additional emphasis has been on the deaf. As we are likely to take a common step very quickly to set a minimum disability pension, let us give it to ourselves for a common goal, along with a candidate who has at least committed himself here, to take a closer look at what to do so that this rule, which is waiting somewhere, can be brought to life. However, if the assessment of the government's legislative service or anyone that the system is subordinated, that there is a more explicit provision to be made in any law, let us also do so. If we do these four things this year, the two are already close to realisation, the third will be also and then there are occupational diseases, we can say that in the field of disabled people in 2021 we have done a lot, and not nearly everything else, since next year we will be improving things again and in ten years again. But it is important that we move forward and help vulnerable groups in particular. That's what I was gonna say. But when I observed the candidate for minister, of course, on the committee I saw him as a candidate, as a human, so I also voted as I did, so I did not vote against it, I abstained. Today, when I vote, I also vote on the government, which I think is bad, so I will vote against the minister. Vote against the minister is not a voice against him, but a voice against a bad government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Procedural. Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I propose that, as presidents, you warn Members and Members of Parliament that we are discussing today's topic. Now I believe that, in one part, the topic of the national recovery and resistance plan can also be linked to the candidate. However, something has to be emphasised here, my fellow Jew, that you are misleading both Members and the general public here. The National Stability and Recovery Plan was discussed by the European Union Affairs Committee about one month ago and we had a very high-quality debate that lasted more than four hours. Last but not least, I am convinced that the government that is preparing this programme includes broader stakeholders in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jewn, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u52	I ask you, Mr Vice-President, procedurally to prevent Members from using procedural proposals to have replicas. This is simply not the same and, by the way, public debate means that there is no internal, secret and similar marking anywhere and that we are not just discussing politics. Politicians are just one part of our society. We have more people in this country than politicians and sometimes know much more than we do in the National Assembly, so closed sessions are not a social debate. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u53	I have to get involved here, too. But I would also really like to ask you, Mr Židan, to stick to the rules of procedure and to discuss the content on today's agenda. I let you talk, but I think you've gone a little bit into an area that's not the topic of today. Mr. Joseph Lenart has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dr Janez Poklukar is an experienced doctor and crisis manager with experience in managing the Jesenice Hospital and the Ljubljana University Clinical Center. As director of the General Hospital in Jesenice in 2014, he faced a difficult financial situation in this hospital. Under his leadership, the hospital survived the crisis and somehow sailed out of the so-called red numbers and began to operate positively. So these experiences are certainly welcome, as in Slovenia there are a large number of public health institutions, as well as local hospitals in so-called red numbers, facing a negative. Thus, in the middle of 2020, according to the newspaper Delo 39 out of 104 public health institutions were in red numbers. In this regard, if we find that such references, experiences, this knowledge of crisis management at different levels of health care and at different levels and sizes of health care institutions are very good, we need to know or, I will say, that we have probably all already met with this, realized that some doctors who hoped to take charge of the hospital and health care facilities were good doctors, but unfortunately quite bad managers and hosts. From this address, I say that it is important to do business without some serious downsides, because all these downsides, all these flaws go on the shoulders of our citizens, on the shoulders of taxpayers, because these citizens now also fill in the Treasury Department for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which then co-finances hospitals and other health institutions and provides health services from this address. Mr Poklukar has gained interesting experience and has successfully led UKC Ljubljana, which is very welcome again, he has shown knowledge, demonstrated his skills and success. Why is management in UKC Ljubljana such a good reference for this candidate for minister, and in fact for every candidate for minister this is a good reference? This is a huge health institution, the main hospital in the region, which provides between 600,000 and 700,000 people with health services. According to the number of employees, it can be measured by the size of the sixtieth municipality, but if the employees are also made up of caregivers, patients stationed in hospitals when they get sick would in fact be the same number as the Ljubljana Municipal Municipality with the population. It also has a budget the size of the Municipality of Ljubljana. It is therefore a successful business under its direction. If you run a good facility like this, you have to be a person, I'll say expert, doctor, master and, of course, a good manager. Above all, I think that Mr Poklukar is a character, a leader who listens to employees and with a sense of people, which is fundamental to doctors and hospital directors. These personality traits and, of course, the responsibility, as he indicated here, were that he actually hoped to run and that he accepted the challenge when he was invited. He would certainly have been better off in that job where he was already stable, he was successful, but because he feels responsible for the situation and believes that he can help get our health care out of a cramp where we all know this moment, including because of the epidemic that hit us and the whole world. Of course, he is aware of the problems, believes in himself, believes in his profession, his fellow doctors, and can also be a good consultant to hospital directors. He has agreed with us here at this presentation, with us present, about what we are all aware of, in the past, the investment in personnel and infrastructure in health care has been cut short, and this will need to be improved. I quote, part of his presentation from the hearing on the Health Committee 17. 2. When we all listened attentively to him in this hall. I quote: “In this year and a half in the clinical center I have met extraordinary experts and we can be happy to have them, because only with them have we been able to challenge the last months or the last year.” End of quote. I must say, he did not surprise us with quality answers to all the serious and specific questions of the members of the Health Committee. Of course, something was also uninplaced, such as the indemnities of something today, I will say, these flat-rate claims, what will happen if, when the minister does everything wrong, we will see it. In fact, he answered all questions, including difficult questions, with a sovereign answer. For me, this was one of the better performances, one of the better presentations by ministers of health as well as others. If I quote another quote from him: “The first, of course, on which our health care must be based, is a strong primary health.” End of quote. Finally, I believe that the Ministry of Health, under its leadership, will be able to provide all citizens and citizens with access to health in an appropriate manner, says quality, safe and adequate health treatment at the right time, which means that it also has a successful approach to solving waiting lines, so that patients, when they need it, will be given equal attention and also with its sense of fairness to direct the functioning and development of all health institutions in the country, to monitor and regulate fairly the allocation of resources for the functioning of the two university clinical centres, namely Maribor and Ljubljana, and will also take care of the reconstruction and construction of the network of emergency centres, including the Ptuj Emergency Centre. That's why I support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u56	Strong and accessible public health is practically the priority of every political party, but how to achieve this, and here we differ. I very much welcome the position of the candidate for minister, who has made it clear that he will take the initiative to maintain strong public health care and that he will not allow so-called amphibians in the system. That's one key message for me. As director of the largest Slovenian hospital, he met all the anomalys, as well as the great egos of individuals at various institutes and departments, which have a strong impact on the management of both the largest Slovenian hospital and other hospitals. It is very important for me to establish a professional management team in each Slovenian hospital, whose primary task will be to ensure the proper operation of each hospital. It also seems unacceptable to me that in fact hospital management does not worry about how many patients are waiting for their treatment, the amount of the inflow of personnel, nor does it worry the excessive health insurance company. In this context, in particular, I cannot understand that we do not actually know the real waiting lines in health today. There's a lot of talk about waiting lines in hospitals. The waiting types are in the insurance company. I think we also need to make this clear so that people in waiting rooms don't get angry at health personnel. It is another important question that will also have to be addressed in relation to the management of personnel, how the staff are overloaded or underburdened. This is the task of management to direct the work to doctors and nurses. Leadership is one who needs to know how heavily his staff and his employees are burdened. I have a feeling that there is no such review in Slovenia. Since the population in Slovenia is old and will need to be more targeted for health care due to the introduction of new treatment methods, generally more expensive treatment methods, and to seek certain optimisations in health care, and also to promote more expensive and equally effective treatment methods or prevention of disease. In this context, I very much welcome the fact that one of the key issues, such as cardiovascular diseases and preventive measures to prevent their emergence, are being exposed. The next key segment is, of course, a long-term care that we will also have to discuss, how to finance it, how to implement it, and how to promote all the alternative, cheaper forms of long-term care that will enable the elderly and those in need to live as long as possible in the environment from which they come, not in the home, but in the environment in which they live. Finally, it is very important to me that he specifically highlighted the strengthening of the primary level of health care and, in essence, the transfer of a number of investigations and services that could be carried out by personal physicians themselves. Last but not least, I think it's very important for the Minister to have to establish a quality system in health care. Now we do not actually have any feedback, or the treatment being carried out is going to be effective or not. These are matters on which the Minister will have to be very careful or active. In this sense, I doubt that he will be able to achieve what he has asked in this coalition, which somehow has other perspectives on how to save his health. That's why I won't support him, and I won't argue with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In a bad year, we have a third or second proposal for a Minister of Health during an extremely difficult period. But at the end of the day, I also understand the former Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar, that he has made a statement of resignation and has left this position. Everything that has happened in this year, when in fact it did not have a full role in communication or in everything else, which, after all, as a minister, should have, goes here on one side to understand. But today we are not talking about the former Minister, today we are talking about the future Minister of Health. Since as members of the Health Committee we also had the opportunity to meet him personally on our visit to this largest institution, the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana, I must say that he proved to be a good manager at the time. He gave us a good picture of the whole situation in the UKC, in an unenviable situation he found himself in the time of the co-vide, so the health field in this place can be said to know of course. But still, our health system is just ahead of what the future minister can certainly tell us to burn down. The waiting periods are increasing, as the candidate told us at the marathon hearing, both in the UKC and in other hospitals in Slovenia. The diagnostics at the time of the first wave were extremely small, all stopped. In the second wave, I have to say that there was a few more diagnostics, but the consequences are inconceivable. Citizens and citizens will be paid or paid for for for a long time. Some, though, have lost their lives despite the lack of diagnostics, and this must really concern us about what was happening at that time. In view of the situation that has been, it is not only covid disease of this time, but we have a number of other diseases, a type of cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular disease. I have to say, as much as I've been tracking these drops lately, I wonder where this is all going. And not among the elderly, we die young people, why, I don't know. Otherwise, this will be one challenge for the future minister. We have asked extremely many questions at this meeting. There were quite a few indications by the coalition that we were putting it to a great challenge, as there were more questions than for the mandate. I said that myself, and I have nothing to add to it. The health sector is wide. We have received few answers to all these questions. It would be better if the candidate presented three main priorities that he would face in order to implement them in a good year, as far as he still has this mandate. I know that the future minister will first face this crisis of covida, which is not jealous. We didn't know her, we all learned a lot together, but we also learned health personnel. However, I must touch on his opening statement, where he stated that he would rather be in the infirmary and do his job as a doctor, but he faces a political challenge. To quote exactly what he said. At the hearing, he said: “I would rather be in the infirmary, but I believe that I can do more for people here, so in view of the challenge posed by the position, the decision to try for reasons of profession and everything I have learned in health in 15 years, even with you to implement and pave the way for Slovenian health the future.” I have to say that I agree with this, and I hope that what he said can be done. But I do have a question in this place – but. Anyone who has not been in politics has no idea what that means when you step on a political floor, and it will be very soon to face it – otherwise today I believe that he will receive all the appropriate support – even a candidate for a minister. That's when he's going to start dealing not with patient treatment, but he's going to start treating our political health system. I don't think that's gonna be easy. On the one hand, I can even say that I am ashamed of the candidate in this place that he has accepted such a challenge. On the other hand, I totally understand him because he has nothing left. If the Prime Minister offers you such an important place and challenge, given that you run the largest institution in Slovenia, this is UKC Ljubljana, there is nothing left to do but accept this challenge and see how things will go away. He said he would bring his team to the Ministry of Health, which is likely to be a welcome one, and he will do – at least I expect so – a blow-up at this ministry. However, if I made this outrageous move to refuse this offer to the Prime Minister, I believe that the throwing of pollen under the feet and also the cutting off of this function would begin. We already know such cases when something like this happens. But that's what the future minister will be doing. I would also like to point out that I have asked him about communication with the public, how he will act here and what his expectations of support are from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. He gave an extremely clear and conscious answer that this support, or if you allow me to do so, would just quote him so that I will not say anything wrong: "I count on the support of the Prime Minister as Minister of Finance." This is a general answer, but given the situation we are in, and given the exposure of the source, otherwise it will virtually not work. Dear future candidate of the Minister of Health, let those words get to you and how I will hold you to your word, as you said at the time. There won't be much time for change. We'll have to get our sleeves up and get to work soon. As we have said, the challenges are extremely great, even by the opposition there have been many questions. So I'm only going to give you three questions that I've been most impressed with and that I've raised most of them. For me, the key is the distinction between public and private health. Here the candidate has replied that he is aware that the current system has too many interferences in public and in private. He also told us why this was happening, and he also told us that he had issued some 500 consents for the work of his doctors in the afternoon, which is extremely large. He also realizes that doctors doing this work in the afternoon also need to rest because I asked him if anyone could do the work 12, 13, 15, 16 hours. And, of course, he stated that it takes rest to be able to carry out your work professionally, qualitatively. If this is the case, he will do all he can to get doctors to work in the public health system at the end of the day. At the time of the covida, it turned out well that only and only the public health system covered all the hardships of that time that had arisen because of the covida. And it has to be preserved, it's an undeniable fact. True, he pointed out why this was happening. The reward system we currently have does not allow good doctors to be well rewarded. Now, don't hold me up for those words that I just said, I'm not going to quote, because I've already given two quotes and I don't think it makes sense anymore, but that's how I understood his answers. It was also interesting to learn about the abolition of supplementary health insurance. We are all aware that this system is inadequate. This proved to be so much more in the time of the covider, because many citizens or citizens could not use health services, the programmes were cancelled, the waiting periods were absolutely prolonged. Many asked themselves, or even asked me on the road as an MP, why I pay for supplementary health insurance in the first place. And, yes, we really have to worry honestly that for a year someone can't get to health services or diagnostics, it's a pretty big problem. So it's going to be a big challenge again. How it will transform, because I know that the termination of the health insurance supplement will not be, this insurance, which we all know is well fed, that we need to raise, I don't know whether it will be the contribution rates or how, of course, this response, of course, could not yet be given to us. But I believe he'll think about it in the future. If I touch on the fact that the Coronavirus has crippled our health system or that the citizens have not visited the doctors, some have wanted to, but on the other hand they have feared, and when it comes to it, they have visited the emergency departments. And the E.R.s were full, which is scary data. That's where the medical personnel burned down, too. I have to say that I have been lucky or unhappy to face an emergency visit myself, and believe me, I admire how they did this work, and this is the kind of medical cadre that helps, like all the others who are looking for solutions, are looking for that handful of people, for the patients that we were laying on at the time, the best possible solution. They are truly grateful for their sacrificing work, for their concern to save our lives, for the health staff saves our lives. I must say, long-term care is also one of our priorities. We are all aware that we want our elders to soon become involved in this story, remain as long as possible in domestic care, and therefore this law is extremely important. Unfortunately, in all these years, since I am a Member, there has been no consideration of the proposal in the National Assembly. The drafts came in, but it always stopped with the funding itself. Perhaps the future minister has more understanding and listening so that we may continue to do so this year. I certainly believe that the Minister faces great challenges. As he faces these challenges, we will see in a later period as soon as possible. The first parliamentary issues can be expected by Monday. The question is a huge one, but we expect solutions as well. Although I have nothing personally through Mr Janez Poklukar, but since this government has done things that I think were unnecessary, even in these rapid tests we have difficulty not to mention procurement with protective equipment, I will not support Mr Poklukar's candidate, but it is certainly the responsibility of the current coalition to vote on his own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the word to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm just going to get to the last debate, on Mrs Mursic. I am also afraid that Mr Poklukar is essentially collateral damage in this case, because, at such a time as this epidemic, we should not be without the Minister of Health for one day, not one second, not one hundred, not one hundred, but everything else. From this point of view, I'm afraid he's been thrown into some cage with a left, where he's going to find it difficult, because in fact there's only one main lion that can roar on the other side, and that's John Janša. But I will also refer to Mr Poklukar's hearing, I have listened to him carefully, and then I will read, I will consult and I will ask him about these things. What bothered me personally at this hearing was that nurses or medical personnel, as well as to a large extent, were released from various discussions or even questions, not to a large extent, but to a greater extent. Given that nurses and medical personnel are indeed the main support member of the healthcare system, I would expect to be more involved in the hearing of medical personnel, as far as their work, systematizations, payments, evaluation of work is concerned, as nurses or even medical personnel are concerned, because they are simply understaffed. I was just trying to get these numbers together for as long as I could. On average, there are currently 23 000 active nurses in Slovenia. These nurses themselves expressed the need for at least 5,000 additional nurses at this time of the epidemic to function on some normal system that we imagine or want. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the departure of our medical staff or nurses across the border to Austria as well as to Germany. If you don't know, in the coming years, we're supposed to need about 300,000 nurses in Germany, and I'm afraid they're going to want to draw out of our health pool or even invite our health workers and workers abroad. So I think he's got a lot of work to do in this area. I would like to remind him that the Health Workers and Workers' Union of Slovenia has recently pointed out to Mr Janša himself the unsustainable situation that is taking place in these hospitals and health homes precisely because of the Coronavirus epidemic and also because of other things, the previously mentioned lack of staff and poor working conditions. I'd like to mention one more thing. Mr Ptuj, who, like me, has already mentioned the emergency centre of Ptuj, and I would like to read from the hearing statement by Mr Poklukar, future Minister of Health, what he has answered Mrs Mojca's question about the emergency centre for which we want to be built and completed as soon as possible on Ptuj. And we agree with that, too, all Members. He replied: “As far as the emergency centre of Ptuj is concerned, I know the battle or the battle of the General Hospital Ptuj for this emergency centre. The activation of the entire local population in order to achieve this. This was about the time we were building in the days of Jesenica, so I know this story in this direction, but I don't know where things are now or how things are going and how they get mixed up in archaeological excavations. So not to the point, and we will immediately see how we can help with the implementation of this project, which we support." So I would like to draw attention to the fact that I know that Members from our environment have also received the question of the emergency centre at this time, even at the time of the hearing, even now after the hearing. Look, I understand from this answer that it is an interest and that the Minister will also support this concrete project to complete and finally see the light that we are already waiting for in essence now for the fourth year or fifth year. His affection for emergency centres, which should have taken on a significant role in these times of coronavirus, I am pleased that he has made a decision in this direction. As it is said, I will vote against this because I fear that again, in fact, Mr Janez Janša, who is in fact all in one thing that he is at war with, will want to intervene specifically in these matters, but as far as the Minister of Health is concerned, Mr Poklukar will not be able to do so. However, I have a feeling that, even though he is quite self-sufficient and stubborn, I hope that he will also prove his stubbornness and self-sufficientness, which he has already demonstrated, in this case, when Mr Janša wishes in his own way to remind him of the expertise and the professional work that he has left behind in these recent times of this Coronavirus epidemic, that he will show him what is the right path and what is the professional path, and that it is necessary to listen very professionally. Mr Janez Janša will also have to learn, and I hope that he will, listen to his profession, believe in his profession and be taught from the profession, because unfortunately he can't know or we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has Tomaž Lisec to prepare Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues, fellows, good-bye to everyone! On social networks, certain information is being circulated about Mr Janez Poklukar, and the red thread of this information is that his CV shows that he is a man of action. I believe that Mr Poklukar will be a man of action not only until about May next year, when we have parliamentary elections ahead of us, but that Mr Janez Poklukar will be a man of action at least there by May 2026 to be a minister not only a good year, but a minister of good five years. Why do I think or hope that Mr Poklukar will be Minister for the next five years? Because in the field of health, there are many problems that former ministers did not want to hear or hear about. Just think of any minister or, above all, a minister who used a shovel to throw money into health care, and the health system was no better for a single promo. In preparing for today's meeting, I have looked at our coalition treaty, and I hope that Mr candidate is much braver than the brave Members who scare us in their words by distinguishing between public and private health and the other nonsense we are hearing today. In the field of health, the coalition contract at the first point mentions that our goal is quality and accessible to all public health as the basis of the Slovenian health system. So all the talk about privatisation, and I don't know what other nonsense we hear today, is completely superfluous. Although I hope that private health will help public health to achieve its objectives more than ever before. In short, in the next five years, the Minister will do everything that the current ministers have not been allowed to do in ten years, fail or refuse to do. According to his CV, I believe he does not need to be specifically told what is expected at the so-called tertiary level of the health system. Mr Poklukar as former head of UKC Ljubljana saw firsthand where the problems were, and I believe he will also find a solution for this system, namely for UKC Ljubljana and also for UKC Maribor, so that he will be able to support them in their implementation of the programme as well as in individual investments. Here I also hope that the entire government or the remaining ministries will play an important role in the preparation of the recovery and resistance plan for these two main hospital centres in the Republic of Slovenia. I also believe that the candidate does not have a problem with knowing the so-called secondary level, because we also hear from the current members of the Goran Parliament a great deal of gratitude for what the candidate for minister has done at the General Hospital in Jesenica. Here from this city my appeal and call to the candidate or, I hope, to the next minister that he will give the secondary level the strength and the necessary programmes and investments that this secondary level needs. Here I hope that he will be equally fair to all regions in the Republic of Slovenia, that he will not work as a number of former ministers when he challenged the directors of general hospitals and peacefully ruled in their fight until the bitter end of his term. Personally, I know that a lot of people in the general hospital have a lot of problems. However, these directors, their employees and their administrations also have a number of solutions offered to the Ministry, but the second, third and fourth ranks of the Ministry do not want to hear these proposals. And then these proposals don't even come to the ministers themselves, because so far there have been too many times that ministers haven't come to the field to ask what's wrong or what should have been done. Then we have some urgent committee meetings, for example, when we resolve open issues that ministers do not want to hear, such as where and how to have maternity homes in our country, where to have such or different programmes or such and other investments. I come from Posavje alone, and it is always, at least our General Hospital Brežica is somewhat not only second-rate, but for a third-rate hospital, which has repeatedly faced more problems than has been given initiatives by previous ministers. That is why I hope, as I have already said, that the Minister will now be the one who will be just and understanding to all general hospitals. As I know that there is a recovery and resilience plan ahead of us, I believe that it will also draw on the solutions that these general hospitals need in terms of both new and additional programmes and new and additional investments at their facilities or in their operations. Here I would also touch the emergency centres, which are always kind of on paper, partly in implementation but never – at least not yet – a complete story. From these emergency centres, I would like to come to this primary level, which I hope that this minister will not neglect, or as was understood from his hearing, these primary levels, preventive programmes, health promotions, reference outpatients and everyone else on the ground, so close to the patients, will be given special effect. Since I've been in the National Assembly, I've mentioned two keystrokes: NMP and SUC, emergency medical care, satellite emergency centers. In part, Mr Gantar also heard them on the ground, at least as regards satellite emergency centres, but the story was more than a government decision without financial and human resources upgrades on the ground. Therefore, my appeal that the issue still remains in the field of emergency medical care, satellite emergency centres, if you want the dispatchers' centres themselves, which are still on the ground, with Minister Poklukar will be finally resolved and also realized, as it is written in our legislation and in our regulations. My wish or idea, which has already been somehow adopted by the current Minister of Defence, Mr Tonin, and also former Minister Gantar, is the regulation of helicopter emergency medical care. Not that the Republic of Slovenia needs only two centres, I think it needs at least four centres. It also needs better staffing, especially those basic - helicopters that will serve to rescue patients in the most serious cases of illness or injury. And not that the army will be the one who will save our lives, for the work of the army and soldiers is all but primary in solving health problems or human lives. In view of the coalition agreement, I also hope that the candidate for a minister will cut through these Gordy knots, which I believe are touching three key problems. One is corruption, which is mainly in the field of health in the sky. I think that at the Ministry of Public Administration, a change of the law on public procurement is already being prepared, and I hope that there will be no such nebulos here alone with its experience, both at secondary and tertiary level, to help write such a dictatorship of articles, so that in practice there will be no such nebulos, such acts of public procurement, which unfortunately are taking place. So, corruption in health, its thesis, zero tolerance for corruption, I hope that it will finally come into the text of laws and into the very practice of implementation. The second thing I hope is that, unlike previous ministers, in the last eight years, a little more and also in cooperation with other ministers, the long-term care we are talking about on emergency committees, extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, in such and other public is being discussed, but we have no serious or serious proposals, but there is no minister who would say that this will be the system and we must implement it. I personally think that every system is better than the one that isn't. So corruption or public procurement, long-term care and a third issue, which also partly relates to public procurement, is the Department of Health and Health Insurance, that painful wound when people ask themselves why they pay, who they pay, and what they have out of this health system, which is unfortunately in our Slovenia under some umbrella of protection of the public health system, under the influence of the monopoly. I personally hope that the Minister will have the courage to cut down on certain segments here and make this market more patient-friendly, and this will also likely result in greater cooperation between health and insurance work, which is too monopolized once again. I also personally hope that the Minister will have a happy hand in choosing his associates in his work. Personally, I am always interested after what month when the new minister comes, who are his secretary of state, who are his people in the cabinet, and who are the directors of the directorates, the first professional assistance. Here I hope that the Minister will, in the light of his experience so far, be able to work together to attract the right people so that they will not be, as have been many times in the past, part of the problem and part of the solution. On the other hand, in terms of cooperation during the epidemic, I believe that Mr Poklukar has already met quite a few ministers and will continue his work. As it is said, in the law on public procurement, I hope that he will cooperate with the Minister of Public Administration and, above all, here I hope that he will work successfully with almost the same old Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Janez Cigler King in two segments. Here we have the problem of long-term care and the matter that has been forgotten in the last decade comes first in line with this government and obviously also within the framework of the recovery and resilience plan. These are so-called nursing hospitals. So I hope that both ministers, both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, will be able to find the right recipe for these nursing hospitals, which we urgently need in Slovenia, even through European funds, to live properly not only in Ljubljana, but throughout Slovenia or as the Prime Minister has already said, it is right for each region to have its own nursing hospital. I had something else written here about the departure of health workers, but something has been said today. In short, a lot of challenges lie ahead of the minister, but given his previous career and, as I hear it, his personal path, I believe he is a brave man, that is, a man of action. I believe that his ministry will be happy and successful and will not end there somewhere in May 2022, but will last at least there until May 2026. Because his résumé says a lot of things, my support for the minister's candidate is also from this seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mikhael Prevc has the word to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd be happy to support Dr. Janez Poklukar for the new Minister of Health today. This is simply because I admire his courage, upright attitude and, above all, his benevolent willingness to help and solve our health system at a time when, in addition to many unresolved health problems, we face the most severe health crisis – the covida-19 epidemic. Today, in this Chamber, I find it difficult to hear criminal charges against the current government, since it has not responded properly with many measures to stop the epidemic, even though we all know that similar measures have actually been implemented by all the Member States of the European Union and, finally, by other countries around the world. In these days, however, reducing the number of patients with covid in hospitals in intensive wards and, as a result, fewer deaths can give us some optimism. Therefore, I think that, on today's occasion, it would be more appropriate, instead of such and other accusations, to say thanks primarily to health workers, because they were the ones carrying the most serious burden of the epidemic. I also think that today we must also thank the former Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar, who faced an extremely difficult task immediately after taking up his post as Minister. Finally, today we are also grateful to citizens and citizens, who, taking into account government measures and the National Institute for Public Health, have helped to improve the epidemiological picture. I will also be happy to vote for Dr. Janez Poklukar today because he has proved to be an excellent manager and an excellent expert on the health system with his past work as director of the autumn hospital and university clinical centre in Ljubljana. I am aware that, as Minister of State in a good year of office, he will not be able to solve all the problems that have accumulated in recent decades, but I am convinced that the candidate for the Minister of Health is well aware that our health system needs to provide all of us with publicly available medical care and to allow every citizen to come to a doctor when he needs it. I am sure that this will be your priority, a respected candidate for the Minister of Health, and I wish you every success in your responsible role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word, to prepare Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. To ensure that the Minister and the Ministry of Health succeeds what we all want, at least after this debate, which we are listening to even this afternoon, the government will actually have to find and allocate adequate resources to that end. That's not gonna work without it. Although health care is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, our share of gross social product is constantly falling. For health care, we spend a percentage on our ability to make less money. Although it increases every year, it is essentially smaller, regardless of whether it is left or right. Years ago, the proportion we spent on health care, close to the share of the OECD, was compared to 9%. It then gradually fell below 8%. This can't be without consequences. Quality's down. I am not speaking here populistly, in mind, the data of the European independent Euro Health Consumer Index clearly show that we are going back and fell to the 21st place. In contrast to our approach, when we have been relatively squeezing healthcare funds for a number of years, the Oslo Health Conference report notes that the past crisis, i.e. the great financial crisis, has been best managed by the countries that have invested most in public health. These were Sweden, Finland, Austria. The International Fund also assessed how much each euro invested will contribute to total economic growth, from 0.7 to 1.5 euros. The Council therefore notes that public health care is worthwhile and is worth investing in. Fortunately, European leaders have also prepared a major health reform. We are talking about the reform of the decade in order to reinvigorate the European economy with great investment and reforms, because strengthening the health system is an important part. The talk is about a new deal for which over eight hundred billion are prepared. That's a lot of money. We get only 0.3, but it's always a huge 5.2 billion. This is our chance. Unfortunately, according to now known data in the existing Slovenian plan, which is increasingly more or less secret, for recovery and resistance contrary to European guidelines is less intended for health. This was seen by the European Commission as insufficient. On the other hand, if we take the case of Germany, their recovery and resilience plan, which is the result of a broad debate that was adopted at the end of the previous year, out of a total of 30 billion grants, I am talking only about non-refundables, not returnables, they earmarked as much as 15% for health care. Thus, we have the opportunity here, and I hope that you will succeed within the government and, with the help of other ministers, this new minister will choose the appropriate share in order to set up the plans he has presented to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues! Today, I will say, is one big historic day when we get, I hope that, at least, it was somehow understood from the debate, the new health minister. Somehow I can't agree there hasn't been a Minister of Health so far. We know things have been going on normally at the Ministry of Health. So I just can't agree with this somehow. Dr. Janez Poklukar, former director of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, who was appointed director of UKC Ljubljana during the previous government, had a lot of support for both the Council, which was endorsed by the majority as well as the support of your Minister of Health, Šabedra. So somehow I can't understand what I've been listening to today, not enjoying your 100% support, given that your minister or your government had confidence in the director of UKC. Dr. Janez Poklukar, as we know, was an excellent, capable director, a manager who cured the troubled hospital of Jesenica. We know that from the great loss of the autumn hospital, he has made a plus with his hard work, his busy work and good measures. That is why he also gained great confidence in running the largest hospital in the country. I can hardly doubt for a moment that Dr Poklukar's candidate will not be a good minister of health, which in these difficult times, even for health in Slovenia alone, we are looking forward to. It will take on a great deal of responsibility to lead the ministry in these times of crisis for health as well. In view of the discussions that I have listened to mainly by the SD, something also by the LMŠ, which you know a lot about health care or have strung out, identified a bunch of problems that you see and have for every thing also a solution, I would say, for every disease you grow a flower and you planted several flowers here. I have to say, I hate to say it, but even so, you had the opportunity, you had the government, you had the Ministry of Health in your hands, you could have faked a lot of things. Above all, I was disturbed by the debates by the party of the Social Democrats, which were one such blisters with different thesis, half-truths and those statements about waiting types, the difficult health situation, the lack of staff, the lack of infrastructure and so on, of course we all know. We know that, that's the problem in Slovenia. If anyone else said that, I would still understand, but that the Social Democrats all the time stress the same mantra, given that their predecessors, the Union of Communists, had health care in the hands of all the years since World War II, and that the SD was also 20 years in governments after independence, it is, I must say, the most responsible party for the situation as it is. Somehow you've been allowing organised crime and systemic corruption in health care all these years. According to some estimates, about 100 million euros per year have been blown up. You must be aware of this before stressing nonstop about waiting types and any possible problems. You have repeatedly stressed the lack of money before and that more needs to be put into health care. One would understand this if it were a normal European state, not a post-socialist state, because we know that in health care as well as in other sectors of the economy, it has been working non-economically all year round in the previous South and even now. More money in health care would mean more stealing. More would have gone out for overpayments mainly to medical equipment suppliers, overpaid services, information technology, and you have invested even €136 million to cover these irregularities at the time, which I do not think is normal. The waiting species, however, remained or even increased. We cannot compare in any way the situation you had at the time in some normal circumstances, but you did not repair it or establish that health care works the way people, taxpayers, all of us users of health services would expect it to work. We cannot compare those situations to the current situation of covid. Now it has to be said that at the time you also destroyed child heart surgery. We know what it was like. We can't forget that. These are the things we've been following. These things have been followed by people. I don't believe people forget that. And when you repeat this constant mantra of yours, you might even let a man down. Pediatric Intensive Medicine. It's ruined everything. Therefore, I can easily say that the SD is more part of the problem than part of the solution, and I would not expect them to be able to now tackle health rescue in such complex situations. Dr. Janez Poklukar at the Ministry, which has already begun, will do a lot of good work for me, a lot of measures that will benefit all of us users of health services. He's seduced by human resources issues. It is also aware of the problems caused by the long-term infrastructure, the long-term instruments, which we have listened to in hospitals and health homes before. Since 2019, he has repeatedly pointed out where we will put patients from the hospital, since we have nowhere to put them. So you didn't even take care of the nursing homes, so home care. All this stuff, people are watching it, now they're getting rid of it, they're getting better, and they're going to be in the future. Indeed, there will be a short term, one good year, but I believe that with good work, both the Minister of Health and the other ministries and the entire government will most likely see a difference and this mandate will be much longer than one year. By removing this systemic corruption that was happening when the money just blew out of the system, and Jelka Godec revealed it with her committee, especially with regard to the ventricles, because we know that there was the most money going on here, people will see it, and they will finally get the feeling that something has changed in health. As far as the human resources issue is concerned, the government has taken a decision for more staff in colleges, as regards health care, as well as more investment in hospital care, in nursing homes, and so on. I believe that the Minister will also continue with excellent matters and strengthen them, strengthen them as regards the reference ambulances, as he himself said, the screening programme – these are some of the things that are very important for our health, that is, preventive programmes, including nursing hospitals, the long-term care I have already mentioned. I believe he will also feel the need for urgent medical care, for emergency centres all over the country, that something will not be centralised as it was intended. I must say that we, together with the Ministry, have worked hard, including with our initiative and with the initiative of the mayors, that we have somehow kept these things by the scale of the people, by the measure of citizens and citizens, and in Lithuania, where I come from, we have kept the emergency medical care in its original form and I must say that it works well. Also, the COVID entry point, which was also intended for Trbovlje and would have run out of Lithium. I must say, these things are very welcome for all the users. I believe that information technology in this health system will also improve because we know it is still problematic. Problems are also in dental care. Differences occur either in public health or in concessionaires, there will be a need to provide more resources here, especially in order to be able to strengthen the dental clinics so that there are no waiting types. The general assessment is that the dental condition in humans is quite bad and I think there will be a lot more to be done here. I believe that there will be no problem, no more money to put into these things if it is known that it will remain there and that it will be for the public good, for the benefit of the people. Not that it's going to blow up with all sorts of affairs that have happened so far. I am also very pleased, and I believe that the Department of Health Insurance here will also cooperate constructively with the Ministry, that after this covida crisis, thank God, somehow there is just a light at the end of the tunnel that we will get out of when we actually have to roll up our sleeves and focus primarily on solving the pending cases. That together all doctors, i.e. complete health care in Slovenia, what we are going through, either private doctors, in the public sector, concessionaires, will be taken together to help people maintain their health and that we will live as qualityly as possible. I would also be very happy if confidence in health care could be increased, for example, through a system that would increase this confidence, so that when healthcare users do some kind of service, they could get some proof of what they benefited from, how much it cost, how much the insurance company paid, how much it had to pay and so on. This would be highly recommended and useful for this system to be a little more transparent, because today people simply do not know what kind of matter it has cost. As far as the use of services is concerned, such as the transport of emergency medical care, people often do not know when they can use a ambulance. Some find themselves, drive with them repeatedly, or always; others do not; they need to be taken and so on. In short, more openness and transparency to make people more aware. As for the waiting species, if I only compare it with the Ministry of the Environment, when we had piled up warehouses of packaging, years and years, this has been translated and stopped and nothing has happened and we have all despaired of it. Finally, now under this government, under this ministry, this matter has been resolved, and I believe that there will be many changes in waiting lines as well, and that there will be some quick visible effects. Above all, I wish that this systemic corruption and the flow of public money, i.e. taxpayers' money into some strange institution, strange hands, into different uncles from behind, and so on, what has been going on so far. I hope that this will indeed be over and that public health will also come to a full life with our money. If I touched just one more thing, which I see and I think is problematic. If we look at only these ambulances or ambulances, according to the words at home, emergency medical care in Ljubljana, that they are in a rather clavatory condition, poor vehicles, old, tired, and then if we look at these rescue vehicles Patient or any other who provide these services, they must not provide emergency medical care, we see that the vehicles are actually new, updated, beautiful. I'm a little lost here, why this is happening. There will be a lot of work to be done here, as opposed to providing emergency vehicles for their health homes, there are also founders and, somehow, there is a lot of investment on the part of the congregation through the system as with firefighters and there is a lot of order in this area. Many municipalities are also investing in the expansion of facilities of both health homes and emergency medical care, which we will also do in Lithuania, and we also hope for the assistance of the state and I believe that it will also be able to listen to us. So I believe the Minister will be confirmed. That flossule, another fluke that came from the SD that the minister received a condition by the Prime Minister -- take it or leave it, be it a minister, or not be the director of the clinical center, I don't know how to put it, but I don't know how anyone could leave it out here, but I haven't heard anything like it, and I'm way down the halls of the National Assembly. Given that you supported both your minister and Dr. Janez Poklukar as director of UKC Ljubljana in the previous government, I believe that you have confidence in him and that we will today overcome some of the divisions that you like to stress, and we will jointly confirm and really wish him good, successful, effective work, which is the goal of this government across all ministries, not only at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Blaž Pavlin, Mr Franc Jurša is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! Today we will decide on the candidate for the Minister of Health. I am pleased that the candidate for minister is Janez Poklukar, because he has proved with his work so far that he knows the Slovenian health system. It also has confidence in the public, as it proved to be at the time of the epidemic. Before continuing my discussion, I would like to thank all Slovenian health professionals for all they have done for our patients at the time of the epidemic. Today's debate on the proposed candidate is also an opportunity for Members and Members to present their views on the state of Slovenian health. In the area of health and health, many unresolved problems have accumulated in recent years. These are long waiting lines, burdened family doctors, departures of doctors and other health personnel abroad. The question of how to relieve doctors and nurses administratively is always asked, so that we have more time to spend on patients. My predecessor mentioned the issue of health financing. We often talk about money as much as the Slovenian health system needs, but I think that fundamental changes in the health system need to be considered, which would introduce more competitiveness in health care, particularly in my view in the field of compulsory health insurance. This would certainly help to reduce corruption in public health procurement. In New Slovenia we advocate that we must do everything possible to shorten the waiting lines and include all possible resources both in public health and in private. It is certainly good for the health system to have more funding resources. This was particularly true during the economic crisis when the income from compulsory health insurance was lower and the difference largely covered additional health insurance. Personally, you wouldn't have any problem if you stopped supplementary health insurance. But I am also in favour of abolishing the monopoly on compulsory health insurance. Last but not least, in this country, it is the Institute for Health Insurance, with over three billion, which is being collected in this insurance company. The Minister himself, the Ministry or the National Assembly have very little influence on health policy itself. The Health Insurance Office is the body that collects operators, determines the price of their services and the amount that an individual operator may carry out. At the end of the year, most of these public health institutions are in a position to reject these services because they have met the annual quotas prescribed by the Health Insurance Office. In Slovenia we all advocate public health, and in Novi Slovenija we are the ones who advocate the accessibility of this public health care. The covid-19 epidemic has worsened the situation in Slovenian health care. The waiting species have increased further, so it is important to include in order to reduce them all available health capacities that we are overtaken in Slovenia. A person who needs health care is not interested in where and how money will be paid for this service. All he wants to know is how quickly he's going to get his turn and how effectively he's going to be dealt with. I am convinced that Slovenia is a rich country, that people should die in it in waiting lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word from the next debater, I will read the rest of the debaters because the list has been cut short. First Mr. Franc Jurša, then Željko Cigler, Master Branko Grims, Jani Möderndorfer, Andrej Chernigoj, Sam Bevk and finally Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u72	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! I've always advocated one thing that I think is right, and that's that the health field has to solve professionally qualified management. If we, the so-called politicians, try to get as far away from this as possible, then I think we will have the best possible results in health. As long as we interfere in this area, then the one responsible, the first responsible, of course, is also the Minister, very difficult. I'm kind of in favour, and I'm also going to say that I'm quite pleased with the Minister's advocacy of public health. Above all, we want him to be able to distinguish between the public and the private so that he can tackle the waiting lines, because we have problems here, and they will be even bigger once we get through this covid-19. Of course there is still this fight against covido-19 in the first place at this point. A major contribution to health is the organisation, which carries out the vaccination of citizens and citizens themselves. These are the key tasks the Minister will have to solve. There are others, but I have somehow chosen you, and I give this particular emphasis. Mr. Janez Poklukar, I must say is the man I found nowhere on, and I was looking for, I must admit, no sin. And that's encouraging. Of course, unless we say it's a sin to run for councilman on an independent or a client list. I don't think it should be a sin for us as elected representatives of the parties. However, the gentleman has some other very good virtues that many Slovenians would be proud of. He works in a local community, at a local level, of course not just him, even his wife, if you allow me to say so. Of course, I am particularly pleased that Mr Poklukar has a nice family in addition to this, he has even five children, which is of course a Slovenian rareness. Well, now I'm trying to move on to the fact that I want to point out. The Minister of Health in the government of Marjana Sarca was Šabeder. Here. The same gentleman brought Mr Poklukar to the University Clinical Center a short time ago. And all good and all good. I would now understand that a party, even though it is in opposition, might say that this gentleman is a good candidate. If he was a good candidate to run the largest healthcare facility in the country, he is likely also in some way qualified to take the lead of the ministry in this area. But no! I didn't hear that. You didn't say that. Now let him understand who he wants and who knows. However, an individual can appreciate that within some parliamentary groups we are guided by materialism, even though we are heirs who are over 60 years old, we are over 60 years old. But there are young people in some parliamentary groups. And these young people will have to be in the National Assembly for a number of years if they really want to go to politics. I would like to warn some, although we are talking today about the Minister of Health, that everyone should try to abstain. Something happened on January 27th last year. And no one ordered that. We were together, we know where, in the common government, what happened then, the gun fell into the corn and the story was set up again. The way government is at this point is a question. I don't mind that we're critical of the government. But still, I think that sometimes we need to know somehow, in a way, what's good and what's not. True, this ministry was headed by a minister who belonged to the quota of Desus Tomaž Gantar. Tomaž Gantar has resigned. He probably had some reasons and decided he didn't want to be a minister anymore. This means that this city needs to be emptied because the situation is currently in the country, not only in the country, but also in the wider community, so that I will not talk about Europe, the world and so on. The pandemic has actually cut a deep trail in every country. And being without a minister, it's not okay. Well, a little less is possible then these possibilities of criticising whether or not the most responsible in the government. Perhaps you'd like to touch on the evidence that we have some material interests in the parliamentary group. That's what some people tell us. They're not here right now, probably somewhere they're listening, maybe they'll make some observations. We have recently been assessed in this way, and we have also been evaluated in this way today. No, no, no. We have decided that we will be a moderate opposition, we have decided to support the projects proposed by the opposition if they are good, and we will also support the project presented by the government if it is in the interests of the people we represent in our national assembly. When someone asks us what we are — a dick or a mouse — I think I gave the answer today. We are those who understand that we are so old that we work in the interests of the people we represent in this national assembly. But we're not going to work on any instructions that someone's going to force on us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr Željko Cigler, get ready for mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! See, today's debate revolves around expectations, the desire for a very active health policy that is supposed to be conducted in Slovenia in line with the needs of the population, and this must be adapted to the whole matter, especially since Mr Poklukar's candidate for Minister says that we are actually looking at a top level frame in global, global conditions. Yeah, but this top-level staff needs to be provided with normal working conditions, enough resources for that, equipment, space. It's no answer that for decades nothing has been done to keep behind bars and so on. I think backlogs and wrong moves are pulling. And to complete the previous thought – a candidate for a minister who is recognised as a well-established professional reference that he has reached as a doctor, as a director in two hospitals, especially in the clinical centre as a central health institution, are one. But then when we ask this man and his answers to the questions he asked at the Health Committee's hearing, how he's going to solve the problems, in the context of how the existing government works in the field of health, questions and doubts begin to open. And that's the essence of what we're talking about today. Now I'm going to the debates that ran. From the outset, Mr Horvat of Nova Slovenije said that they are committed to regulatory competitiveness, which must be established in health care in Slovenia in order for as many people to be treated as possible. I would say that regulated competitiveness has been strongly advocated and mantraed in the Netherlands. But this regulated competitiveness led the Netherlands to simply not be able to help its co-ed patients and to ask for help and to help them and to treat Dutch co-ed patients in Germany. So Dutch patients, where regulated competitiveness prevailed in the organisation and financing of health care, could not be treated in the Netherlands. Next, I would also like to say that when we provide health care, health care must be non-discriminatory, not racist, to ensure to all people in Slovenia on an equal footing. No one in this National Assembly has the right to take the floor and to expose racism, and that is, in my opinion, to be immediately cut off by any Member or Member of the Presidency, especially when people who need help — these are people, people — are separated by nationality, by sex, from where they come from. As previously said to Roma, Albanians or other non-Slovaks. All are people in need of health care, especially if they are employed or otherwise paying contributions or are active civil rights in the field of health. When it was also exposed to the fact that there is a weakness, that at the primary level is set by directors and holy health homes on the political line. This was previously said by the representative of the Slovenian National Party at the outset. I would say this – in recent times, in all the state hospitals in Slovenia, where two million people in the country are gravitated, the directors and administrations of these hospitals are actively replaced. The candidate for Minister Poklukar, however, pointed out that, in the first place, the conditions governing the quality of work in a particular health institution are well regulated relations in this healthcare institution. I don't know how then - you see, this is what I said at the outset - the minister of accounting that top health professionals in Slovenian hospitals will work well, where those who are managing and professionally run these organizations are put on board practically in this sense by incompetent people. This is where health starts and falls. That's what Mr. Janez Poklukar said. He said, pay her on, I don't know which, third, fourth, fifth place, only later. And that's what you need to keep in mind. Here there is doubt as to whether the policy of the existing government in which the President advocates privatisation, the withdrawal of doctors from the health system and the urgent reform of the current health system, which has proved to be successful, at least in the first wave conflict with the co-worker, how the Minister will then, in the light of his thoughts on the concept represented by the Prime Minister, who obviously has the first, main and last word in the management of all policies in Slovenia, function. For the last time, at the committee hearing, we specifically warned him that hospitals also have difficult financial conditions for functioning because the health needs of the population are high. Therefore, it will certainly be necessary to provide for this purpose more resources, more public funds. Not impose additional commercial insurance, but obtain health resources from different tax bases, in short, from the budget. The budget must provide the manna of necessary health resources where health insurance undertakings, if any, are in need of more resources, are running out of funds. And I'm sure you'll have to do it here. The candidate for minister himself answered us when we confronted him with the fact that last year, and also this year in 100,000 cases, other medical treatments were less carried out in front of the covid. He said he's holding it. We have warned him that this address has resulted in a large balance of unused funds from supplementary health insurance and how it will integrate these funds back into the health system so that these funds will not remain private insurance companies, as the needs for money and health services are large in the health system in Slovenia. We're all aware of that. In particular, we have warned him that hospitals where management has been rapidly changing and politicalally imposed by health authorities, that certain hospitals are the first to leave the hospital, where I come from, from Celje, which at the same time had the most demanding patients in sight, and they have also obtained far-reaching coverage of costs from this address. A normal co-worker costs about 8,000 euros, more complicated 14 and if it goes to the intensive compartment on the fan, it costs over 40,000 euros. Will a review be carried out to actually look at if one hospital has the most demanding patients watching, what is going on in this hospital? These were questions on which the candidate for minister did not actually give us the answers. Especially when he said that a basket of health services from compulsory health insurance would need to be rewinded. Look, this is where they start asking questions. Wait a minute, what's going on here? These are some of the basic things involved that provide basic public health conditions in Slovenia. The minister's candidate, when we asked him specifically what he was thinking here, gave no answer. Here's what I'm gonna say. When it turned out that an important moment of control of the covida epidemic in Slovenia will be vaccination. And he said, "If all people over the age of 65 were vaccinated, the disease and burden of hospital systems would be halved." But the question is what colleague Pavšč said before, we have virtually not enough vaccines in Slovenia or vaccines are coming so slowly that we will obviously not be vaccinated until two years later. This is a problem that is not only the problem of the minister, but actually of the entire government. If I finish. Mr Poklukar, as a man and a doctor, is fine, but in the function he will perform, if this is the first, it is certainly not helpful, because the health policy led by this government under Ivan Janez Janša has one course planned. This direction certainly does not have the first place in providing health care and quality of health care, but its privatisation and the things the market is supposed to decide, not health issues in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grims, prepare Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Slovenia certainly has extremely good doctors and extremely good nurses, trained at really top-notch schools in Slovenia. Unfortunately, to a large extent they're going abroad. The reason for this is exactly the opposite of what was reflected to a large extent today in the words of the opposition. What would make it possible for a rational organization and at the same time to work with doctors, nurses, staff, all who participate in this system? It's healthy competition. Since competition has deliberately been limited because it has destroyed itself since it has been seen in these debates even today, it does not want to understand that concessionaires are part of the public health system. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, a system has developed that is very expensive and is not effective enough for all the funds it is receiving today. I see the reason for this in particular in the system of virtually eternal suppliers, who as some red leeches hang on the blood of Slovenian health and health care system and suck money out of it. That's why he's running out for everything else. Of course, due to the totally irrational spending in the past years, when everything was financed by the leftist ideology of the loaded NGOs for pensioners, for the homes of pensioners, for the health care sector, and for everything else, it was running out of money. And here it was hundreds of millions, not a few tens of thousands of euros to understand each other. This is the system in which the new minister is now entering. Personally, I think it's a very good suggestion that she's a suitable person. I personally support him because he has also shown adequate work and rationality in his work. This is something that is absolutely necessary. And what is extremely important is not based on everything we know about him, in any supply lobby that burdens Slovenian health care. That is why he is a man, unlike a number of predecessors in the post of Minister of Health, and therefore he is certainly a man who can do much more than his predecessors in this system. And I'm pretty sure it will. The first thing to do, however, is to de-dedeologize management and even discuss the Slovenian healthcare system in order to look beyond the threshold to look at cases from abroad, how health care was rationally organised. For example, Taiwan, which can be an example of how to deal with some systemic changes, while not raising costs, but significantly increasing efficiency, will also enable better working conditions for employees by establishing healthy competition within the system. At the same time, the Minister will have to ensure that the financial system is regulated. In a system that is today irrational, which is today a large money user, unfortunately, it is leaking, as I said, through supply connections and everything else in this system. We all know that even some newspapers were financed from the Slovenian health care system and some other stories were completely ideologically colored. Therefore, I say that it will be necessary to deideologize the organisation and management of Slovenian health care and then to clean up the Auggie barn of finance in this health care. And, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, who can be more qualified to make order, to save money in the Slovenian health system, as Gorenjec says, which no doubt the proposed candidate is reliable. And that's why I support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, Mr Andrej Chernigoj is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u78	This EPP would end up paying a lot of people when it was so beautifully said. But without the classic labeling that we're already used to, ideological left-wingers, and I don't know what the specifics of my colleague the predecessor has. But that's his style. In my debate, I will first and foremost define myself on some of the untruths that have been said either because they are liked or because some have simply written on the lists what they must say, or because they do, as colleague Doblekar said, things to be forgotten. And if they don't go into oblivion, they'll have to be repeated 50 times, a hundred times. And Mr. Doblekar, if we're talking about the hearts, do you know when the hearts started and who didn't get rid of them and save them? It's 2007. It started in 2007, so don't talk about things that the investigative commission hasn't finished its work yet. Then there will be a reckoning to see who bears political responsibility. But who bears the other responsibilities, I think, I hope you at least admit that it's right for other authorities to do this, not us. As regards the intervention law that we adopted in the National Assembly in 2017 with one goal and a desire: to settle hospital debts, as my colleague Lisec would call it, away from money laundering, 136 million, so that nothing happened. Unfortunately, I must also tell you one truth that Mr. candidate for Minister has also received, you will not believe, 5.6 million out of this money, that he can complete and complete the rehabilitation prematurely. So much for the money he dropped and the super manager who did it without any help. You won't believe it. He made it with the exact money we took here to patch these holes. If we hadn't done that, my dears, the hospital of Jesenice was also at the point of not taking any more medication and not getting certain things from suppliers and services. Consequently, the intervention law in the National Assembly was adopted at a rate of 136 million. Do you know where the sin was? Because those who received it received money by the cut-off date and since then, hospital directors should complete the matter and remedy it. What did they do? For two reasons you don't want to hear here in the National Assembly, I'm warning you all of a sudden. The health department did the following, lowered the cost of services and dropped the hospital back into new debts so that they could not cover health services, and the other thing, the salaries went up. Yeah, it had to be paid then. So much for this superior knowledge that you attribute to someone, how they can solve something. So we don't get it wrong. I don't give Mr. Pollock the ability to run a hospital. Far from it. I would like to know what the debts will be at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. By then, he'll be the minister when we know this information. Data, non-formal, and we already have some in our hands. The University Clinical Centre Ljubljana will have €30 million in losses. So much for the abilities that a person has actually done. Of this, it is necessary to know that there are 96 million claims to be made by the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. Do you know what I'm talking about? I'm talking about the record indebtedness of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, which it hasn't done even when we talked about 17 and 20 million debts, and you had so much to say about what's going on here. Is it only his fault that he's so indebted? It'll tell time. But I'm sure he'll have a headache about how that same debt that he's in charge of is gonna have to be covered by him, Minister. Ironic. It's a big irony. I wonder what that's gonna look like. The important thing to say about this subject is that we must not forget when you talk about the delimitation of public, private and from those ends there, especially from New Slovenia, I must say that I am happy to listen to how things need to be preserved, protected and so on. But it is precisely because, as Mr. Doblekar said, it will not go into oblivion. We must not forget that New Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2020 a proposal for a law on intervention measures to stabilise the functioning of the public health system. Of course, there was nothing out of this law. But there's one other thing that's very important in this marriage. In this law, they made it very clear to themselves how they pictured the public health system. They shall, inter alia, speak of independent tenderers in Article 15. These independent providers, however, could not be regarded as income from employment but as income from the operation of the medical service contract. Nor would these independent providers need any permit to carry private health care activities, as provided for by the law governing health care. What am I talking about? I'm talking about how they wanted to let private people go through the big door who would actually be forgiven for everything. Why is that important? It is particularly important because you want or do not want the President of New Slovenia, Matthew Tonin, said that this candidate for minister is one of the three proposed. Now I am interested because he did not say this very clearly at the hearing as to how he imagines to maintain the public health system. If you remember correctly, I have clearly defined, yes, yes, because we all want to have a public health system, but everyone imagines it in their own way. Each one imagines in his own way how he would solve these questions. And if we save him as New Slovenia has proposed, then the public health system is gone. Then it goes into the malaise, it's called. And that's what I'm worried about, and I don't have an answer for this candidate. So much for what it actually means. The important question is also interesting, but today no one wants to touch it, the only colleague of Jelinčič has been so fair, otherwise he with a little irony and a smile in his presentation tells him that after he becomes Minister, he will hand over the anonymity with which, I suppose, he already has. And we all have it, because we've all got it. I would expect today from the still current Minister of Health, because the future Minister cannot comment on this today, but I could comment and reject these findings as Director of the University Clinical Centre, but he did not. There are a few things in this anonymity that really concern me. But I'm worried about the next thing. You all know that the emergency room, which has been running for 12 years, I am talking about the second half, not this first half, which has been upgraded and modified, of course, takes a very long time, because a number of plans have changed for such and different reasons that we are not going to solve here today, nor to come to an end, but it is likely that someone else will eventually come to the end of this story, certainly the law enforcement authorities. Where the money went that the director of the UKC was responsible for not being in 12 years, but that in 12 days he had completed the place where the visible patients are lying today. You all know, even if you are not experts in this area when these rooms were shown, you may have found that these rooms are not at all suitable for patients. However, in an emergency, the patient can also be under the tent, we agree. It is important to save his human life and health, to preserve him and so on. I wonder what will happen to these places when the epidemic is over. This will have to be brought down, and everything will have to be done again. More. What will happen to the rooms that are renovated and empty, and not one patient has survived in there for another day. It's a facility near a clinical center and it's been renovated. I didn't get these answers today, whether that's true or not. And they have neither the building permit nor the use permit. What's going to happen to that? Where's this performance now? Where did that money go? It's not thousands, it's millions. The next thing I know, he was handing out money for supplements, which was some kind of reward for working with the patient. We have all received the document we have before us, signed by the Director-General, Mr Janez Poklukar, who talks about how in fact the highest supplements were paid by people in cabinets who have nothing to do with patients. 66%. Hello? Where is this successful manager now? What are we talking about now? The workers on J's payroll, because you all know her and you know who I'm talking about, got the least of them. 16%. Some people don't even have anything. If this is a job that's proud of everyone and that's why it has to be deserved to become a minister today, okay, then I'm up for it. If you are all in favour, then I understand that this is essentially the majority opinion of Slovenia, because we are representatives of the people. I don't think so. I understand, however, that it is a policy and a certain decision. Zero tolerance for corruption was expressed at the hearing of the Health Committee. Zero tolerance against corruption. Let me explain why, despite the fact that he knew that the doctor at the orthopedic clinic was already very far away in judicial proceedings and that the matter was a matter of weeks of decision-making, he nevertheless appointed him as the perpetrator of the duty. I asked him that at the hearing. Seksano said he would never do anything like that again. Why did I ask him? Because I didn't care what happened to this gentleman's doctor, who, by the way, two days for that session or one day, I don't know exactly, then also resigned because he was convicted, otherwise not legally. But I asked him because I wanted to know what the shot would be when he became secretary. Will he take the same steps? What message is this, then, to zero tolerance against corruption? Especially because we are not talking about a neighbourly dispute, we are not talking about a traffic accident with a serious injury, we are not talking about, I don't know, some other crime. We're talking about a corrupt act that happened. That's what we were talking about. The next thing I'm going to say for me is, and I agree with some of the people you've been talking about today, I'm curious who they're going to bring into the cabinet. At that time, it will be clear to me what is the sincerity of purpose and, above all, I will know in advance what policies it will implement. That's why I'm gonna let myself be surprised here. I'm not all-knowing and all-knowing, and I can't know that, but I'm waiting for this day. We're all talking about health homes and hospitals today. However, I am interested in what he will do with psychiatric help, what he will do with the lack of professional skills in the areas of preventive health, both in children and in adults. What's he gonna do with all the other preventive tasks? What he will do with NIJ, what he will do with this NIJ, which, forgive me, not once, has proved repeatedly that he is not competent for what he is doing. What he's going to do with the expert committee on the epidemic, where it's clear that epidemiologists are just waiting for a phone call when someone needs to be replaced. These are things he hasn't answered. Either he doesn't or he doesn't know, but I'm most afraid of this third one – or he knows, he'll just let me know when the moment is right. Today you also sang all the famous phrases, as it is said – a great specialist in the health system. Have we ever listened to these lines? Do you remember Mr. Fakin, the candidate for minister? He's a big health expert. After six months, he had to leave. Without his resignation, he had to leave because a great medical expert had done nothing. And he was the director of the health department for ten years, and he was the director of the cell hospital, and he is also a doctor himself, and, by the way, I am still saying that he is a specialist in the health system today – whether he is good or not, which is an open question. Will the candidate for the minister, as an expert in hospital operations, be able to assess how things are on the political floor? You know, being the director of something to decide and sign some kind of measure, that's one thing. How he will react when the Prime Minister calls him and begins to interfere with matters that are the original rights of the Minister by law. By the way, today, Comrade Jurša mentioned that Mr Gantar, the predecessor, had resigned because he had resigned for some reason. And we all know why he gave up. He stepped down because Desus stepped out of this government. There's no other reason. However, the fact that he wanted to resign earlier, he personally told me that he had already been at it and that he had received assurances from the Prime Minister that some things would change, but unfortunately they did not. That's why I have no guarantee that I can judge one other thing today. Not that, but he's an expert on the medical system, but he was a good director. That's what time will talk about, not us. But is he actually able to stand up as a minister and also say no to the first man when he's doing direct harm to people in the country? This government has already done more damage directly to citizens. We have also said this several times and described it directly. We still have a curfew in this country, and we ask ourselves, epidemiologists don't understand why this curfew is still in force. We are a country with the longest curfew in Europe. Nowhere in Europe does they have as much curfew as we have. And believe me, we'll be here soon to call off the curfew. But we're about to come back again, because I'm afraid someone will create it artificially, because this is in this government, the only way to control and control the masses. That's why we in this country have a problem with the health system, because it's always those who don't have the authority to do it. I do not tell the Prime Minister that, as Prime Minister, he cannot or should not run a government. I can do it. But when the Prime Minister starts interfering with the original powers of ministers, then you know the devil took the joke. And with this government, he took it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u80	Thank you. Just for a little while. Look, when I said that the debate would need to be de-de-logised even on the health system in Slovenia, obviously I was not understood. I thought in particular about this huge insurmountable difference between words and actions in much of the present opposition and those represented by these people. To be clear, to be specific. We were able to read in the newspapers how the biggest advocate who literally fetishized the public health system in his debates, Milan Kučan, went to Switzerland for a private clinic when it was necessary to operate on the spine. Of course at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. That's what we've been through a lot. However, I know the cases of other people who have not been well-trained for interventions in Slovenia have not been sent abroad, despite repeated requests, after 20 years of burdening the Slovenian health system. Because it suits someone in this system. And we should talk about how this system works. No ideology, but by performance criteria, by quality criteria, by accessibility criteria, for all in the same way, for all in the same way and on the same criteria. It is therefore necessary to dedeologize this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellows and fellows! My thanks goes first and foremost to all health workers and workers who are under severe trials every day. These are real heroes to me. I would like to continue by thanking the former Minister of Health, Dr. Gantar, who led this demanding resort at the most difficult times in the history of the independent Republic of Slovenia. I'm going to support Dr. Janez Poklukar with the same level of support that an unenviable task awaits, but I believe he will face the challenges that lie ahead. I believe that with his team he will take Slovenian health care to a reconstruction where only small steps have been taken over the last 30 years. In New Slovenia – we believe that it is important for Christian Democrats to make changes at this time, especially in four areas. As soon as the transplantation of Slovenk and Slovenes controls and reduces waiting types, cancer patients should be allowed to receive rapid and quality treatment and, for the last time, good pay for good work. That is why I support the regulation of basic salaries of healthcare professionals. I trust and trust our candidate and wish him a successful job. In New Slovenia – we do not see any problems in Christian Democrats, but we see a solution to the challenges. I will support the new minister as we have used our time, 110%. To this end, we invite the remaining ones in this hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Ministry of Health and the National Assembly have very little impact on the financing of health care in Slovenia and thus health care alone, as key issues are happening in a health treasury that manages good €3 billion. However, the state budget for health care is significantly lower. Therefore, matters are primarily taking place in the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, where key decisions are taken, and it is essential how these funds are managed and managed there. In these days, both the Ministry and the Health Treasury will receive a new minister and a new director, and it is therefore very important what will be the cohabitation of these two very important segments of our society, especially in the light of the biggest epidemic that has affected our country or Slovenian territory in the last 100 years. I will also draw attention to a major public health problem, which is the prevention and management of hospital infections, which is a problem both in Slovenia and in the European Union and in the world at large. The fact is, hospital infections cause more people to die than traffic accidents. If I give the information that between 2015 and 2017 some 25 and 26 000 people die from accidents in the European Union, then more than 37,000 people die from hospital infections in the European Union during such a period. When I first drew attention to this problem in 2000 in the National Assembly and then Minister Dusan Kebra indicated that more than 400 patients died in Slovenian hospitals every year, he did not dispute this information. That is why I propose to the Minister that he deal seriously with this problem. Finally, vaccination against coronavirus. This will be the key project of the ministry of Janez Poklukar. After that, we will remember him in good or bad. I hope after a good job, because this will be useful for everyone. But I would touch a rather delicate subject that, of course, should not be. It is a matter of prioritising the vaccination of Members and Members and all employees in the National Assembly, as it is part of a key critical infrastructure in the country. However, the leadership of the National Assembly still does not know when vaccination will take place. It was initially promised in January, then in mid-February. Today I asked the leadership of the National Assembly on this subject. No President, no Secretary-General was able to answer my question, although they are working very hard to solve this problem. That is why I appeal to the new Minister Janez Poklukar and Director of the National Institute for Public Health, Milan Krek, to organise this as soon as possible. The government can decide at correspondence sessions and work from home, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia does not, because this is not possible. We know the story of secret voting. In the end, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted all the so-called anti-Korona laws. I wish the Minister a successful job. However, how we will vote has been expressed in the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u85	Thank you very much. She still has the word as the last reported colleague of Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will not repeat what the proposed candidate for minister was saying at the so-called hearing. The fact is that the hearing took place for virtually 8 hours and that the candidate responded to each Member or Member individually. He's never avoided any question. What I think is essential to this moment and what follows from today's debate is the worst thing we can see in politics. He says he's a good candidate, but that there's a problem in the government, I find it extremely unserious in the situation we have in the country. I also need to respond to some of the statements I have heard today that there is only one person in this government to decide. Look, first of all, it's not true, and second of all, I'm gonna tell you some facts. In the government of Marjana Šarc, when there were no problems concerning the severe confrontation with the covida-19 epidemic, two ministers virtually withdrew. The first was Fakin, soon after the beginning, followed by Šabeder, who gave Bianca a resignation statement to the then Prime Minister. So, a resignation statement when he sees it as necessary to cash it. So much for candidates at the beginning of this term. When the government took over a new coalition led by Janez Janša, he became Minister of Gantar. That's right. He gave up. But he did not give up because of what was heard from some of the discussions. I'll remind you. Mr Gantar said: "I thank the Prime Minister for his trust. I have tried my work faithfully, with all responsibility and commitment, I believe that we have done important work together." Do you know what that same minister, Mr. Gantar, said when he resigned from your left government? He said: “I care where our citizens will be treated in the future. The Minister of Health has little political power in that government. If this were the way to lead the congregation, they would not have made any sidewalks.” That's what the respectable Gantar said when your government was. So, please, not with such insubordinations that have no basis for themselves. And more. Today we have heard that nothing has actually been done at the time of the absence of a formal minister and the management of the department has been taken over by the Prime Minister. That's not true. We started with vaccination, respectable colleagues and colleagues! By vaccination, in which we place great hopes. We are also successful within the European Union. Of course, it is important how we deal with vaccines in the future, for unfortunately this is not entirely up to us. It has been said, it seems very presumptuous to me, and in some ways it is sad that the person you have appointed as director of UKC Ljubljana, you are literally humiliating today, you want to minimize his work, in short, a lot of observations I have heard on this account. But all I have to say is a few numbers that seem important to me. When your Minister, Your Honor, Aleš Šabeder led UKC Ljubljana for 2017 at the press conference, we created EUR 33.5 million minus. This was followed by substantial state aid, which was heavy 80 million, but in 2018 we will record 15 million euro minus. I didn't hear you at the time that this candidate was troublesome and couldn't fix UKC Ljubljana. Today, you tell someone he's not successful at his job. More. The project, which was completed in a few days and was earlier worth 12 years, is a problem for you today, instead of everyone welcoming that we have reached new spaces, because we have been in extremely critical moments, you are today at odds with whether there may have been too much resources. That's a disgrace, sir! Come in. It was said mainly on the left side, and you keep saying that you don't really know if you don't understand or don't understand. But what kind of medical privatisation? Where's that in some kind of coalition contract? Who's talking about the privatization of health care? And that's what we keep hearing from you. What is most sad is that today I have also listened by the representative of the Left to the fact that the problem of health is not from the past, but that this problem has arisen today. At the same time, you say that 130,000 people don't have a personal physician. Let's stop, come on! This has accumulated for years and years because this system was not only neglected, but money, instead of going back into this system, would rather spend on other things. We listened on one side, how many are dead. Tell me, Your Honor, what you've done for a better situation in nursing homes in the past. Once again, 25 million in ten years. I'm not going to say non-governmental organization because it would be non-governmental for me if we were to fund ourselves, but some organisations on Metelkova 6 have received 37 million and more in these years. I believe this is difficult to listen to, Mr Koprivc, but these are facts, and this is the truth. The fact is that only with this government things change and will change. And it's important that we start putting money where it's needed. Of course, it is also necessary to pay attention because we have witnessed corruption in the past, that is to say, the money we have spent on health care has not remained there, but ended up in the pockets of individuals. Unfortunately, our judicial system is not even capable of making decisions that are practically on the table if we just look at what happened to the commission of inquiry on vein resistors. You made it a problem that the candidate didn't talk about the nurses. On the contrary. The candidate highlighted the problem of leaving the nurses. He warned and also said that things needed to be changed. Come in. The fact is that many times we are listening, in fact, we are constantly hearing about what measures the country is taking to contain the epidemic. Respectable, just like other countries around the world. Without measures, the number of dead would be much higher. Well, let's remember this one time! Let us once say hello to the fact that we are taking action because we are protecting people's health. Many of us in here, too, have gotten over covid-19 and let us stop this denial of this severe disease and speak on the other hand to go to some police state. Please, dear fellows and colleagues! You have also read the candidate's right to speak your conscience, if you do, but now the candidate will impose an objection to the conscience. Your Honor, look at the Constitution and the law. The objection to conscience is already regulated by law and is a right and, on the other hand, is a duty. I'll end up in this place. It saddens me that some of you will make a decision that is not about what the candidate has said, not about his vision, not about his program, but about just being against it. But, remember, today you're against saving lives, today you're against getting the health system in Slovenia settled and today you're against getting the waiting lines sorted. This is a sad likeness of some who sit in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u88	I'm replicating the president because I was very obviously misunderstood. At the outset of my debate, I made it very clear. Citizens and citizens in the vast majority support quality public health care and so lawyers privatising the public health system begin their positions and debates, “I am for the public health system”. What the specificity of this public health system looks like, however, we have heard, even in the past. Let's say it's the minister's candidate. Statusal transformation of public institutions. What does that mean? That hospitals stop being public institutions and become economic unions. Conversion of supplementary health insurance. What does that mean? To reduce the basket of patients' rights and rights, for the same money they are paying now, and to strengthen commercial health insurance companies. Flexible reward mechanisms in the context of the withdrawal of doctors from the public service system are also a step towards privatising the public health system. This is exactly what they are doing in the government of Janez Janša, and that is exactly what they would like to do until the end of this term.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u89	Thank you very much. My friend Kordesh this was not a replica, it was more of a discussion. Comrade Pajovitch, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. I have to answer my colleague. I've never been able to report to a candidate for Minister of Conscience. But he stated this in his position, Mr, who proposed this candidate, and spoke about the objection of conscience in medicine and information. Let's read it a little bit and listen a little bit more carefully next time. Who was the problem with the measures? We didn't trouble them. But if that's what a leading epidemiologist in the country says, and he expresses his doubts, and that's the biggest sin in this country, then we do have a problem. Denial of the disease. Who denies the disease? You really know how to convert words, look for something that someone didn't even say and then hang on to everything. At the hearing, the Minister obviously answered you in a substantive manner. He didn't say anything about the questions I asked my colleagues myself. He was talking, but he didn't say anything. And that's what we read to him today and for the last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I have a procedural proposal. Please warn your colleagues and colleagues not to use the replica. Everyone had a chance to talk, everyone could talk, and now they're arguing with me. That's not a replica. I am surprised, however, that Mr Pavšič found himself in this debate, because I did not mention him, so I am sorry, but we have to listen to each other a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u93	We understand your procedural proposal. If there is a will to discuss, there is likely to be a sharing of time and you will be able to apply. However, we are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the President of Prime Minister Janez Janša gets the floor as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Much has been said in a day, much has also been answered, but I think that one claim has been made which has not been answered and has not been denied and is quite difficult and relates in essence to the work done by the candidate in his current or current function at the head of the University Clinical Centre. This institution was said to have recorded a 30-million-dollar loss in last year. I don't know where the opposition members got this information, given that this was said extremely vehemently. The director of the UKC says that despite difficult circumstances, this loss, if any, will be 30 times lower. So I'm really asking that we don't overstep these numbers. Second of all, it's about the medical stuff. Compare what has been invested from public funds or is intended to invest in Slovenian health care in the last decade with inputs to so-called NGOs, where we exclude those acting in the common interest, public interest and humanitarian interests. Yet, there are some 15,000 more who act more for their own purposes or for the purposes of their founders. In fact, more money was spent on them than on investments in health care. And in the next ten years, the situation will not be any better if this does not change. You can call it ideology, you can say I don't know anything, but they end up saying numbers. Our gross domestic product is what it is. It won't get any bigger, we won't find any oil. The only serious development potential we have is ourselves, the real people. We're underinvesting in this, too. And we need to decide on our priorities. The decision on priorities in the last decade was wrong as far as health care is concerned. Wrong. This cannot be rectified within one year without being rectified within a single term. If you want me to repeat the numbers from the last time, I'll be happy to repeat them. A key challenge for the new Minister of Health will be the ongoing epidemic or pandemic. You've talked about it a lot, too. The fact is, there's a third wave ahead of us. Whether or not there will be a third wave is not a dilemma. Bo. Because of the new versions of the virus throughout Europe and also with us. The question is, how strong will he be? The fact is that we currently have two conflicting trends. On the one hand, the number of patients requiring hospital treatment is decreasing. Thank God, there was also a drastic decline in the number of deaths when we imprisoned residents in nursing homes and in some other institutions where the risk was highest. This is a good trend, but as we know from the previous waves, it will not last indefinitely, because the opposite is a trend towards increasing the number of infections. Now the number of infections among young people has increased since the release in education and in child care. This is not an immediate pressure on hospitals. Now we are also recording the rise in infections between the older generation and, of course, this is the most affected by the epidemic, so in a few weeks, unfortunately, we have to count on the trend to turn. Already some regions that have been in orange have become red for various reasons. Here, extreme caution is still needed. New versions of the virus are a key risk, as the European Centre for the Protection against Infectious Diseases warns. There's a lot of these mutations. Even our professional records of mutations that were obviously only characteristic of us or still are. In neighbouring countries, there are versions that are more dangerous than the ones they've faced. We have weeks ahead of us and, I'm afraid, even months before we're still facing an epidemic. This, as previously said, will be a key challenge for the new Minister of Health. At the end of December or after Christmas, we started vaccination with the rest of the European Union. The vaccine delivery announcements were higher at the time than they actually took place within two months. For the next few months, there is a slight skepticism about the supply arrangements themselves. If we make a comparison, we see that Europe is from Christmas until now, it is said that within two months it has managed to inoculate a good 4% of the population. If this trend were the same in the coming months, then the epidemic would continue for years. The announcements of the supply of vaccines are still more optimistic, but this week, when we are preparing for the European Council, we are doing a lot of work on the effectiveness of these common European supplies, because obviously some of the contracts have been poorly signed because vaccines produced on European soil are sold to others, even though we as Europe have invested great resources in the development of these vaccines and also in certain prepayments. This situation must be regulated and Europe must be able to provide enough vaccines for all its population by June. If she can't do it, then the bad experience from the first wave of last year's epidemic will happen again. However, there is no reason not to make additional efforts and resources to make this possible. As we see from the experience of those countries that are more successful and are not in the European Union, interception, especially older populations, effectively stops the epidemic and also prevents the spread of new versions. The government will complement the vaccination strategy in the near future. The priority categories will include all those for which mandatory testing is prescribed for understandable reasons. It's education, it's those who work in the store, taxi drivers, for example, all those who now have to be tested periodically because of the high risk. This category will include – I am responding to one of the previous debates – the National Assembly and other parts of critical infrastructure or the leading part of critical infrastructure. So it will be possible to determine more precisely or determine when this vaccination will occur, but not precisely because we are dependent on the actual supply of the vaccine and not on the announcement. Unfortunately, this is always different and often in a positive direction. However, this situation has become so clear that it may be a little easier to plan. This is one of the reasons why the vaccination strategy will be supplemented. Slovenia will also look for additional options for the supply of vaccines, as will other countries. We're making an effort in this direction. However, it is still necessary to have security and credibility and trust in the vaccine at the forefront, otherwise we have not achieved anything with the purchases. In the coming days or, say, within 10 days, when it is also clear what the European Council will do on Thursday and Friday, we will invite all the members of the group to present the efforts and assessments of both the profession and the government in the coming weeks to deal with the epidemic. In advance, I invite you to attend this meeting. There will be a presence of all those who also have more detailed professional answers to the questions that are being asked, and I also hope that we will be able to present more precisely the dynamics of vaccination in the future. Thank you once again for the support expressed to the candidate in the debate. We believe that with his experiences and, above all, on the basis of what he has already demonstrated in the fight against the epidemic so far, he will be a failure. This is one of the most demanding ministries at this time, probably the most demanding at the time of the epidemic. And in fact, the person who accepts this challenge and who takes it seriously deserves all our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u95	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he would also like to discuss Prime Minister Janez Janša's proposal, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. I find that the time available is less than a minute per debater, so there is no time-sharing. I'm closing the debate. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Janez Poklukar is appointed Minister of Health. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable! On key issues, the candidate for Minister of Health Janez Poklukar has not defined – we have said several times today in the debate, several groups and Members – not until supplementary health insurance, problems, not ventilation, as he said, baskets of compulsory health insurance, or this means a reduction, not even though we know that there is a need for new money for health care, he has practically not indicated any resources, nor what we have proposed in Levica and other parties support that the budget must provide a guarantee when the money for urgently needed health services is running out. In our opinion, a candidate who has no answers to the questions raised, regardless of his references, which have been described today, has been led by the Ministry as decided by Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša. As does Ivan Janez Janša in other areas when he leads politics in the Republic of Slovenia. Here, however, the negative health balance and responsibility are evident. First, discrimination in hospital care of users home for the elderly in the first wave. Incompetence in homes for the elderly in the second wave. Three thousand seven hundred dead so far in the second wave due to covid. The National Plan for Recovery and Resistance of Money for Health limits the national plan, although we are in great need of it, to 200 million, in the face of major public health needs, the Government has set priorities for the purchase of weapons. But we have a health crisis in this country. And politically, which is very important, we are now being informed by the media that the key institutions working on covid's problems are public health hospitals, their leadership and the saints of these institutions, are politically cleaning. If someone in them points to irregularities, the question of the legality of various matters, in particular financing, as was the case with Celje Hospital, is removed for false reasons. That is why we will not give the candidate for Minister of Health support in Levika. We'll argue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support Mr Janez Poklukar. This is the optimal or, more precisely, the best choice right now. I can only say that the former Minister of Health, born of Ptujčan, had a happy hand that Mr Poklukar was appointed Director General of UKC Ljubljana. We will support him because we also know that the entire coalition will be on his side, the entire coalition will be on his side. And also because I believe he will make the optimal use of the budget. The figures are an exact matter, just for comparison, the realization in 2019 was a good 183 million. Mr Poklukar will have more than €528 million available for this year, that is 345 million more than was realized in 2019 or index 188. It is and will be the whole coalition, among other things, because the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy has issued a decision on financial support for the project of the move of the Department for Pulmonary Diseases at the location of UKC Maribor. Maribor is the second largest Slovenian city. For a project of almost €4 million, the European Regional Development Fund will contribute €3.6 million. It is the first authorisation of funds under the REACT-EU initiative. Things happen and count the actions. We will also support it because today, on the important Slovenian radio, the president of the Fides Trade Union, Mr Konrad Kuštrin, stated the following: “The left parties talk a lot about health and do nothing.” That's an excuse a future minister won't be able to have. And I don't think he will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Everything's been told today. But there's only one thing I'd like to say. When there is talk, the entire coalition will confirm the new minister, and the Slovenian National Party will also confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members present, for 50, for 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it Janez Poklukar is appointed Minister of Health. I ask the newly appointed minister to join us and to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u102	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[clapping in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u103	I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. You want to talk to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u104	Respectable. Just like the days before the committee hearing, I say today that I'd rather be in the infirmary. But I believe and I realized that here, along with you, I can do more for human health. I believe we have a crucial moment ahead of us, a crucial moment for changes in health care. Together and united in the common goal, I believe that we can achieve what we have been waiting for in health for a long time. Our patients, health workers and all Slovenians deserve it. I therefore invite all of you to constructive dialogue and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-23-SDZ8-Izredna-62.ana.u105	Thank you very much. / applause/ Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda. I also conclude the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
