ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 68th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by a member of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. I invited a representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 68th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 24 March 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Voting on the agenda. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 68th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – IT'S ON MANATE VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor. On 15 March 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint Tina Žumer as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mrs Natasa Kovac for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The seat of one of the Vice-Governors, members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, has been vacant since 31 July last year, when Mr Marko Bošnjak was relieved of this function. At the end of last year's public call, the President of the Republic received seven proposals for possible candidates for this city. In this process, he held several rounds of consultations and interviews with the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly. In the current situation in January and February this year, he concluded that it was appropriate to wait for the candidate or candidate for the post to obtain the established position of individual parliamentary groups. The last round of consultations was carried out by the President of the Republic with a visit to the National Assembly in the first days of March. The President of the Republic decided to propose to the Council of the Bank of Slovenia Vice-Governor Mr Tino Žumer, mag. the economic sciences that acquired this title after a master's degree at the London School of Economic and Political Sciences, London School of Economics and Political Science, University of London. She has a master's degree in monetary economics. She is currently employed as chief economist at the Directorate-General for Economics of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. Mrs Žumer is awarded 20 years of rich work experience both at the Bank of Slovenia and at the European Central Bank, especially in central banking and in other areas, macroeconomics, international relations, monetary policy. Initially, in Banka Slovenije, she participated as an analyst in the preparation of a new strategy for the approximation of the euro area and the acquisition of the euro in Slovenia. Later, as the first economist from then new Member States of the European Union, employed by the European Central Bank, she participated in the monitoring of monetary policies and the monetary integration of these countries and the spread of the euro area. As the main economist at the European Central Bank, she was responsible for Slovenia during the period of its approximation to the euro area. After several years as advisor to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for the past ten years, he has been working again at the European Central Bank, where the main economist and co-ordinated work and positions in the field of individual European Union countries within the European Central Bank and other stakeholders. Ms Tina Žumer gained extensive and rich experience during her work in the field of international cooperation, cooperation with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. These experiences have enriched its wider understanding of economic policies and economic and political debates at national, European and wider international level. As usual, the candidate presented herself to the public at a public presentation at the Presidential Palace. It stressed in particular that the Bank of Slovenia must also provide support to Slovenian households and businesses, as long as necessary, in advance of co-forming the monetary policy of the Eurosystem under the current conditions of the pandemic. It must act flexibly, by adapting to the situation, while closely monitoring and monitoring all risks. It will work with its experience to strengthen the position and visibility of the Bank of Slovenia within the Eurosystem. In order to continuously adapt to the changing macroeconomic and institutional environment and, in particular, to establish professionally sound views, to open exchanges of views and, in particular, to the transparent and responsible functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, as a basis for citizens' confidence in this institution and its reputation. The President of the Republic believes that, in the event of an election, Mrs Tina Žumer will perform a high level of expertise, conscientiously and enthusiastically, in both the domestic and the wider international environment, due to her well-known expertise. The President of the Republic proposes to appoint her as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as a parent working body by a mandate-holder commission which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u4	Good afternoon. I say hello to everyone. The Bank of Slovenia, which marks the 30th anniversary this year, is one of the key institutions of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter also confirms the time of its establishment, 25 June 1991, by the adoption of the Bank of Slovenia Act and the election of the first Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Franc Arhar, the date on which the independent Republic of Slovenia was declared. Since then, the legislation has provided that the Bank of Slovenia’s authorities, the Governor of Banka Slovenije and the Council of Banka Slovenije, which number nine members, i.e. the governor, four vice-governors and four members, have substantially changed the institutional environment in which the Bank of Slovenia operates. In 2004, the entry into the European Union, the entry into the European Monetary Union in 2007, following the centralisation of the supervision and resolution of banks in the EU, the establishment of a single control mechanism and a single resolution mechanism. Such monetary policy, supervision of banks and bank resolution are no longer the subject of Banka Slovenije decision. In all these areas, the principle of centralised decision-making is established in Frankfurt and Brussels and the decentralisation of the implementation of decisions through national central banks. By doing so, I am not diminishing the importance of the tasks performed by members of the Board of the Bank or the Banking Institute, but it might suggest that the latter should also be examined in the future. Today we have before us the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia that Tina Žumer be named vice-governance. We often have decisions about the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia on our hands. The possible response of potential candidates to a public call has already been carefully weighed, as the person already has to face media dissection as a candidate. Despite the consultations held with the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed candidates do not receive the necessary majority in the National Assembly, as the appointment requires the majority of all, and the additional vote is also secret. Whether this time Mrs Tina Žumer will be able to accept a sufficient number of votes, we do not hope to announce ourselves in the parliamentary group at this time. However, we can say that the proposed candidate is, in most cases, considered appropriate, to carry out entrusted work at a high level of expertise, conscientiously, responsiblely, transparently, especially for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not only for the benefit of capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, will be taken together with the vote on item 1b immediately following the debate on agenda item 1.b. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. On 15 March 2021, the Government proposed that Anko Čadež be appointed Director of the Securities Market Agency. I give my word to the representative of the Magnificent Government. Mr Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! The Director of the Securities Market Agency shall expire on 30 March. In accordance with the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the Director of the Agency appoints the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. The Government, through its decision to the National Assembly, proposes to appoint Mrs Anko Čadež as Director of the Agency. Mrs. Chaddezh is a mess. Depl. a lawyer with a judicial state exam. At the beginning of her business career she was employed first in Višje and then in the District Court in Ljubljana. As legal adviser, she continued her professional career at the Slovenian Development Society and as secretary at the Directorate of Public Property at the Ministry of Finance. From 2008 to 2019, she was employed by the Securities Market Agency, where she also held management functions. She was Deputy Director and Acting Director, and she also led the capital market sector. Given that Mrs Čadež is well aware of the organisation, business and business of the securities market, as well as the characteristics of the capital market and the wider financial system, her appointment would ensure the Agency's professional and legal functioning as one of the key supervisory and regulatory institutions in the Slovenian financial market. On the basis of that Government, the National Assembly proposes to approve Ms Čadež as Director of the Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal for appointment. Anybody else want a word? A representative of the government? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a joint secret vote on the proposal for the appointment of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor and on the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act or Article 477, paragraph 7, of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the National Assembly shall decide on the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, and on the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik, SDS, Andreja Zabret, LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija, Left, Blaž Pavlin, NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I propose that those members of the commission with President-in-Office Branko Simonovic and Deputy Secretary-General Jernejo Bergoč also vote on the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly under agenda item 1.c. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. It shall be voted on by the word in favour or word against on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor Tina Žumer will be appointed, if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. In accordance with Article 477(7) of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, Anka Čadež, the applicant for the Director of the Securities Markets Agency will be appointed, if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which will be placed at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.20 p.m. and will last until 17.40 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m. and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 17.07 and resumed at 18.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session and item 1 of the agenda – Proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Tina Žumer as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor. 84 votes were distributed, 84 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 81 votes were valid. 60 members voted against. 21 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Tina Žumer is appointed a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, by a majority of the votes of all Members. Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor Tina Žumer congratulations and wish her a successful job. [[Applause]] We continue with the proposal to appoint the Director of the Securities Market Agency. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Anka Čadež as Director of the Securities Market Agency. 84 ballots were distributed, 84 ballots were delivered, 7 ballots were invalid, 77 were valid. There were 52 votes in favour, 25 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Anka Čadež, by a majority of the votes of all Members, is appointed Director of the Securities Market Agency for a period of six years, with a term of office beginning at 31 years. 3. 2021 and lasts up to a maximum of 30. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I congratulate the directors of the Anki Čadež Securities Market Agency on their appointment. [[Applause]] Now we move on to the next point. But I'd like to ask my buddy for a replacement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u9	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. Would he like a further explanation for the proposal for discharge by a representative of the proposer? Yeah. It's available for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u10	Honorable Assembly, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Chairman! A respected choir! In accordance with Article 201 and in conjunction with Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Members and Members shall propose that the National Assembly decide on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič. Igor Zorčič was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 March 2020 when a new coalition of Slovenian Democratic Party, Modern Centre Party, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia was formed. The undeniable fact is that it is 26. 3. 2021 amended the composition of the SMC Group of Members. Igor Zorčič, President of the National Assembly until now, resigned from the SMC Group. As the formation of a new parliamentary group, which will not be part of the coalition, is publicly announced, this also changes the position of the current President of the National Assembly, so we propose its resolution. To conclude, I would like to thank Igor Zorčič for his previous leadership of the National Assembly and wish him a successful work on a new path.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič, President of the National Assembly, would like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! March 5th, it's been a year since I took over the leadership of the National Assembly. I must say that the performance of this function has been difficult, full of challenges, even in the light of the epidemic that has saved our lives, and also in the light of measures that have somehow increased social tension, as we have often felt in the debates in this Chamber. I believe that a session may have passed more calmly, but the National Assembly is a house of words, and it is said that as a spirit when it escapes from the bottle, it is difficult to get it back. Surely you can't get her away with a warning or some kind of business action. Nevertheless, I think that, as the National Assembly, we have done a good and quality work comparable to that of parliaments elsewhere in the world. I am particularly proud of the work that has been done in some way during our regular work, either at regular or extraordinary meetings, such as the revision of the Rules of Procedure and the establishment of an audiovisual conference system, which is unique in its own way and which is frequently asked by the presidents of other parliaments. I'm also proud of the adoption of the ethical code. Otherwise, many debates wonder whether it works or not. I must tell you, those who are not aware of the fact that following the adoption of the ethical code, the adoption of the regulation, which was in fact decided by the President and both, by all three vice-presidents, was followed by a regulation which dictates how to deal with the code or how to deal with individual initiatives, that someone should be treated in accordance with the code. We have already met several times, discussed certain initiatives. If I said a little bit figurative, I'd say the baby was crying. I am also proud that we have done much, but we should do more, but this epidemic has also prevented us from doing so, with an active citizenship project that we have sought to bring the National Assembly closer to the students and students, so that we can train them to do so over a long period of time, as well as all Members of Parliament and Members of all future vocations, so that we can participate in empowering meetings with students, students and, in fact, to spread and raise awareness of the importance of parliamentary democracy, so to speak and raise awareness of the importance of parliamentary democracy among students, students and students. I am also proud that we have reduced the sessions a little bit, we have limited them with some time, that we have finally used our house order for the first time, and that we have prevented some paramilitary groups from parading around our house. And finally, what you've been seeing lately, we've updated the website of the National Assembly, which is also waiting for the search engine to be renovated. I would like to thank all the members of the National Assembly, especially Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar, Mrs Monica Suligoj, their deputies, I think they have done a lot of work. As far as today's resolution is concerned, I can say this. I believe that the reason given cannot be and must not be a reason for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. We must be aware that the coalition as we had it in 2020 no longer exists that in fact one party, the coalition contracts are no longer in place, that is, Desus, that one party survives only half as many Members as it did in 2020, that we also have ministers in the government who are not members of coalition partners, at least they claim. So this argument that someone gets out of a coalition party and has to leave the post of President of the National Assembly does not hold back some serious judgment. Especially when the Vice-President of the Government publicly announces who will be the next President of the National Assembly. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I think that today we must have so much integrity and out of respect for our function that we are the ones who are the central political and democratic body in the Republic of Slovenia, that we are the ones who love the government – not the other way around. Don't let me burden you for reasons why I stepped out of a coalition party. One of those that the government is ignoring the laws that we are enacting in this house is the PKP 7, the Slovenian Press Agency Act, the State Prosecutor's Office Act. As President of the National Assembly, I have not been able to see this peacefully and bear it, and I have therefore withdrawn certain sequences, even if this is why I have to leave the presidency of the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. It's available for everyone after five minutes. The first one gets the word of Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, Ljubljana is surrounded by a series of graffiti, a series of so-called scenics that depict one image that everyone probably knows. This is Janez Janša in her youth with a rocket in her hand. And these graffiti are directed at a number of institutions in this country; against RTV against different ministries, not least against the National Assembly. The solution or proposal for a solution that we are considering today is exactly the kind of rocket launcher that is aimed at Parliament. It's a rocket launcher directed at the temple of democracy. What is happening today is nothing more than a recent campaign by John Janša to gain full control of Parliament as well. After this year of John Janša’s rule, our democracy is quite shattered, and we can see its state from day to day. And even after the responses of many institutions not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and around the world, the very reputation of this democracy is stupefying. So today's vote on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, is somehow a vote on whether the National Assembly will turn into a coalition voting machine. Yesterday we could hear in the Studio City show, I will not sing here praises to Igor Zorčič, but that he was, in many ways, a defender of what John Janša or the ruling coalition or the ruling SDS. That he had at least managed to maintain certain procedures and to stop certain illegalities that the SDS party with Janez Janša at the head of the National Assembly wanted to carry out. Remember the discharges of the President of the Court of Auditors and similar stories. I am afraid, and I think, that this fear is not unfounded, that by replacing Igor Zorčič, by electing a new President of the National Assembly from a number of coalition MPs, those who remain, it would mean exactly – the degradation or final degradation of the National Assembly and the sharp intervention in the principle of the division of power. As the President has already said, the National Assembly is essentially the highest institution in this country. We're the legislative body, we're the ones setting up the government, not the other way around. The government is the one who should be in charge of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we can't say that in this last year. Too often, the National Assembly is pretending that the decisions of the National Assembly are being taken, and in order to maintain this integrity, we need someone to defend this institution. That is why in Levica we oppose this desant to the National Assembly, we oppose Janez Janša triggering this rocket and hitting our institution. Let us all reflect today on this assumption, not on who makes up the coalition, who makes up the opposition, but, above all, on the integrity of this high assembly. Of course, the responsibility lies with every Member and Member, and with those who are opposition, they have agreements with the coalition, on those who have historically always played such a role that they were not the language on the scale. For all of us, and especially for those who did not want to make themselves known, today there is a responsibility. In the end, the only question will be whether the National Assembly will still be, or whether it will remain an autonomous institution, or whether we will just extend the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Igor Zorčič was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 March last year when a new coalition was formed, which was composed of SDS, SMC, Nova Slovenija and DeSUS. The election of Mr Igor Zorčič as President of the National Assembly was therefore based on the participation of SMC or its participation in an existing coalition. On 26 March this year, the composition of the SMC Coalition Group changed. The President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, together with two other Members, resigned from the Coalition Group of the Modern Centre Party and a new group of unrelated Members was set up a few hours ago, which clearly will not be part of the government coalition. In the Slovenian parliamentary system, it is quite common for the President of the National Assembly to come from a number of coalition members. This practice is already firmly anchored in the practice of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. It is taken into account by both the left-centre and right-centre government coalitions. In view of Igor Zorčič's exit from the coalition parliamentary group, it is therefore expected that another member of the coalition parliamentary groups will take the seat of the President of the National Assembly. I would like to thank Igor Zorčič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, for his work and for his proper cooperation in this last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Igor Zorčič, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I hope that everyone here today is gathered in this hall, and from first to last, we are aware, regardless of which side we are on, that today's meeting or this point will bring one great disappointment among people. Sometimes I get the feeling that things happen in the National Assembly that are just as far away from reality as they are from what's out there, and we do everything else between these walls of ours, and we do everything we can to solve people's problems. The coalition, or what is left of this coalition, has decided to put the current President of the National Assembly to the test. Nothing like that, you could say if we had a normal political situation. Unfortunately, we are not in these circumstances. This manoeuvre, which is completely legitimate, is, in my personal opinion, and also a party opinion, completely driven by the reality facing this moment in our country. Just before we actually shut down the country with what's called a lockdown. If, on Sunday, I have been monitoring the concerned faces of the coalition Members and Members and representatives of the government, Czech Republic, but now it is indeed happening, now it will be necessary to squeeze the teeth, taking into account the expertise to do everything to make the epidemic avert, on Tuesday or today, just two days after this event, we are witnessing a completely different logic that shows no concern for the country and for the people when I think the coalition should strive to postpone this planned demolition of another country and, in fact, maintain the stable leadership of the National Assembly at least during these eleven days when the state will go to lockdown. If only we could expect all the energy to be focused on keeping at least what's left of people's trust. Oh, no! The ruling coalition has decided to do the opposite. It has decided to delay the stability of the National Assembly only to measure the temperature in its own kind and to discipline Members and Members and certain individuals and certain individuals. If anything, Your Honor, policy in these days should do its own lockdown with one common goal: our country and its people successfully drive through the clears of this closure with as little consequence as possible. People don't know what will happen to child protection, what will happen with jobs after the academy, how to survive, when some will have to close their activities again, this policy is not interested, but it's kind of grabbing the panic of counting, who's behind this coalition and who's not behind this coalition. Therefore, I suggest that for eleven days you close all the opposition and coalition in one of your rooms and count your votes there. Today, the Social Democrats will not vote in favour of the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Marko Badelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u20	Dear congregation, all present! On Sunday, the news of a renewed halt to public life struck us brightly for 11 days. Our country will be locked down again. After recommendations of the profession, learning moves away, the doors are closed by guesthouses, kindergartens will be open only for urgent protection, movement is limited to regions, masks will be mandatory on all public surfaces and so on. To put it simply, Slovenia found itself in the midst of the English version of the new coronavirus, and in order to prevent the spread of infections and the reduction of pressure on hospitals, the country is again under lock and key. In the SAB we do not challenge the opinion of epidemiologists and health professionals, and we call on citizens to respect safeguards in a consistent manner. However, we also wonder whether the measures will really last only eleven days or is just an excuse for an extension that will not be seen to be over. If citizens in the first wave trusted the government and showed a great deal of solidarity, in the second wave, they became angry and insecure because of all the known facts about them. Trust in the government's work is at an extremely low level, so it is not surprising that most citizens resist the new lockdown. People simply have enough and are tired of orders that change weekly. Especially exaggerated, rigorous, and senseless is the night limit on movement, but now we must be grateful that we have one more to do in the field or recreation. Regardless of the seriousness of the epidemic and the health crisis we are in, the government has reacted sunkly to Friday's exit by four SMC and Desus members. Without waiting and with a view to consolidating the coalition fortress, a proposal came yesterday to rescue Igor Zorčič from the position of President of the National Assembly. And now a new candidate is already known for this city. Hence, the government did not have time to prepare properly for the second wave in the summer break, had no time to respond to troubles in nursing homes, and had no time to organize school. At the highest speed, however, a cold human resources wheel rotates to key positions in state institutions and places their personnel or, in particular, personnel close to the largest coalition party. This is the case with the police, today we have been able to read about the Post of Slovenia, and such a case is the new candidate for the first time among Members. To conclude, despite the deterioration of the epidemiological picture, the coalition's representatives are anxious to take care of their chairs and, on the principle of bulldozer, kick out everyone who is not theirs. That the discipline and consolidation of coalition species are even more effective, we have a candidate for the new president of the Jujuga Assembly with early elections. Interestingly, when we called for early elections in the opposition, we threatened the country and prevented the fight against the epidemic, and now the same manoeuvre is being used by the coalition itself. The undeniable bread is the most eaten. We know very well that early elections can only trigger the resignation of the Prime Minister, and this will probably never happen. Threats are with them if I make a joke, just stories for a good night. Your Honor! Slovenian society and policy are polarised more than ever, thanks to a large number of government representatives. Instead of being patient, build up contention, exert pressure on independent institutions and net ideological conflicts. This is far from reconciliation and cooperation. With certainty, however, in the SAB Group we can say that Igor Zorčič did not spread hate speech, did not spread intolerance and did not embark on an ideological measurement of power. That's why we won't support his release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Šarca Group will be presented by Brane Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u22	Dear Igor Zorčič, colleagues and colleagues! We are concerned when the Vice-President of the Government on the public media vehemently says that the next President of the National Assembly will be Joseph Horvat. He does not say – in New Slovenia we will propose. He says he will. And that's one year from now. This government usurps everything, this government determines what will happen and this government punishes when necessary. And Igor Zorčič is being punished. I wouldn't have much trouble if a government coalition of 46 signatures came to the National Assembly and proposed a new President of the National Assembly. Yeah, we have a government coalition that has 46 plus votes. No, the government coalition comes with 38 votes, and there are so many – a real government coalition, which is less than the real real opposition. Therefore, if we respected this house, if we knew what the division of power was, the election of the President of the National Assembly in a situation where no one has a majority, at least on paper, would have been agreed. No, you don't. Deputy Prime Minister Matthew Tonin tells the National Assembly who will be the president of this house. And you do it. What else are you gonna do? The vice-president told you. What would happen if the Prime Minister told you something like that?Oh, my God! Then we would probably not have a vote. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we cannot agree on this in this way to appoint the President of the National Assembly. We cannot agree that we have the feeling that we are trading for these missing votes. This isn't the right way, and we're not going to be involved in this. Today's vote, colleagues and colleagues, it's not about principles, values, it's not about the programme, it's about content. It's about the parliamentary chairs. Parliamentary chairs at the expense of the State, citizens and citizens and democratic values. We will not participate in this work on the List of Marjan Šarcs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u24	Dear colleague Zorčič, colleagues and colleagues! It would be difficult, on behalf of the newly formed unconnected parliamentary group, to describe better what is happening today, as did colleague Zorčič. It would be difficult to find a single Member here among you who would have anything to report to his colleague Zorčič about the poor management of this house. I also find it difficult to believe in the well-intentionedness of today's proposal. Some reference to what is normal is quite funny. Because it is this government and this coalition that has proved what is not normal and still endures. That too has been said today. This government and its operation have proved many times that, of course, it wants to hold all strings, all levers in its hands. It began with amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Government, which went in the direction of interfering with the Prime Minister and other ministers in the branches of their colleagues. All of this went smoothly through the government. It continued that certain proposals proposed by individual ministries did not come to the table of government members at all. Someone usurped the right to leave them in the drawer. The same was true of the pressure on the National Assembly, its president. More times. Repetitive. Requests for the convening of meetings, requirements for a specific time-table, non-commitment requirements and so on and so on. My friend Zorčič successfully resisted it. All of this indicates the intention to relax this path by replacing him. That this house, which should be the highest body from which the ministers responsible for this house are called, and not the other way around, will become subordinate, not as much to the Government as to its President, who, of course, imagined that he would still be leading this along with everything else. He who appreciates his function and the way he was chosen to do so can set all the alarms on his mind, and he realizes, of course, that he cannot support such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Would you like a word with the Member and Members? I can see that. Five minutes each. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. The first one gets Tina Hefferle's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. If I am a perfectly correct, well-respected coalition, I must admit to you that you have the legitimate right today to demand the discharge of the President of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the saddest thing about it is that you judge the individual, Mr Igor Zorčič, not by his work, not by his qualities or qualities, but by who he belongs to and to whom he does not belong. Your main motive today is this penal policy, which you can also afford against institutions such as the President of the National Assembly. After the Rules of Procedure allow you to give reasons for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, you are just a little excited that Mr Zorčič has done his work conscientiously, that he has done his work professionally and properly both to one side and to the other. In my line of work, he also kindly reminded me of any mistakes I might have made. But always [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u27	Your Honor, if you'll excuse me, please. I respectfully ask the Members that you are respectful of the speaker and that you respect the Rules of Procedure. Can you hear me? [[advertising from the hall]] Do you want me to interrupt the session maybe? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Madam Ambassador, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u28	Yes, it shows a culture of coalition MPs, especially Mrs Udovč and Mrs Irgle, but okay, I will try my red thread to continue. Mr Zorčič, most importantly, has always been prepared to defend the position and, above all, the position of the house in which we are, the National Assembly. I strongly doubt that any other coalition president would receive such conscientious opposition to all attempts by the Government to influence the National Assembly. So from one branch to another branch of power. Mr Zorčič’s resignation from one parliamentary group and his accession to another parliamentary group does not constitute any commercial legal reason to dismiss him from his office as President of the National Assembly. That's a fact, really. It should be said that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly only stipulate that the President of the National Assembly becomes one who receives a sufficient number of votes. It is true, however, that a quota is laid down for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, at least one vice-president for the opposition party. So much so that your reason, which we have previously heard in the position of the SDS Group, is excusable, is this change in the Group of Members. If you, a respected coalition, were right, the work of the current President of the National Assembly would be judged by its quality and not by who it belongs to. Once again, belonging to someone or not belonging to a government chief does not mean a valid reason why you want to get rid of him from this place today. Here I am very surprised and grieved in particular by the position of former fellow President Zorčič of the SMC, because of the fact that you serve the great boss, you agree with the resolution which has no basis in what I have said, in the context of the work and presentation of the President of the National Assembly. Today's discharge, or a proposal for a discharge, is nothing more than usurpation or leniency of this function, the functions of the President of the National Assembly by the Government, if you want to be more precise, by the President of the Government and the Vice-Presidents of the Government, who have already announced in advance who will become President of the National Assembly. And this is the complete subordination of the legislative branch of the executive branch of power, which is happening in the last year of the reign of Mr Janez Janša, of course with the support of the great coalition voting machine. This voting machine, however, is assisted by both the DeSUS Group and some others, who should still be on the side that does not mean a language on the scale of such a decision today. And now, a well-respected coalition, you allow the Vice-President's seat to continue to be held by a member of the Desus Group, who we know is not formally in the coalition, then I see no valid reason why just because of the resignation from the SMC Group it would be obvious to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Zorčič. It shows here how uneven you have standards, here is your tendency after that, but if you do not remove our will or the will of the Prime Minister, you will be punished. That's what hit a lot of citizens this year. Finally, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Zorčič, also came. Of course, such discharges, for so few substantive reasons, are practically absent, and such usurpation of the government's ability to subdue these functions today will certainly not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u30	Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In my case, too, this debate has raised quite a few questions and one deeper thought. The fact is that Slovenian parliamentary practice is based on the fact that the President of the National Assembly comes from coalition parties, and this is a long-standing fact. The fact is, too, that the Vice-President of the National Assembly is from the opposition. It is also true that the presidents of the working bodies are balanced in terms of the coalition ratio: the opposition and the number of members of the parliamentary group. And if, I'm gonna say, he's making an order with the President of the National Assembly or he's trying to do that, then he needs to be on the line. For several months now, we have not had the positions of presidents of working bodies, given whether the party is in position or opposition, and given the number of Members of the parliamentary group. And that hasn't bothered anyone for months. Now, colleague Zorčič has recently stepped out of the SMC Group of Members of Parliament, but look at the fraction, from today to tomorrow, let's call it a day, let's solve it. I agree, let's be principled, but let's be principled throughout the line. It is not good that one tradition established in Slovenian parliamentary practice is thus undermined. But it's time to start making order all over the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u32	During this term of office, an unusually large number of presidents of the National Assembly are dismissed or resigned. However, something else has happened in this mandate. I will begin by saying that, in fact, this is not about our colleague, Mr Igor Zorčič, this is about an institution. The executive branch of power first wanted to acquire a right that the Constitutional Court had made very clear that they did not have these rights when they exercised budgetary control over the use of money in the National Assembly. We all know that by law only the Court of Auditors can do this. Later, every time the executive branch authorities made it very clear that they had the right to decide how much money the National Assembly would be able to spend. It's called another experiment. The third attempt is that the executive branch of power will tell who will be the president of the National Assembly. That's why I'm gonna say it. I was sure and I was afraid that colleague Igor Zorčič would resign, as did the previous two presidents, Mr Tonin, Mr Židan, and, thank God, he did not do so. It is clear that the previous two presidents resigned themselves because they knew that the coalition constituted a majority, and in the first case it was a deal and a promise of Mr Tonin to withdraw as soon as it was clear which majority would form a coalition. In this case, for the first time in 30 years in history, the coalition, which has fewer votes than the opposition, would have received the President of the National Assembly. Less votes! Leave now those votes you count on to buy them in one way or another, or have different agreements, agreements, or massages made with you all night, so that they will vote today as they will. It is outrageous that Mr Tonin will say who will be the president of the National Assembly. Let him resign as minister and become an MP, and every day he can talk about who he thinks would be nice if he was president of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I repeat once again, we will in fact change the practice of the National Assembly and allow the legislative branch of power to become just another formalism decided by the minority government. If that's the case, then it's better if we all get back together and go to the polls to let the voters know if they agree with this way of working. I think that in the 1990s, when the constitution was being drafted and written and finally adopted, that wasn't the point. Far from it. This National Assembly shall decide on the government. And the ministers, including the Prime Minister, the successive governments, and most of all, forget and each time they are elected here, and take pictures here at our door, that they are not decision makers, but they must get used to the fact that the National Assembly is the one who decides. However, they have the executive power to enforce and respect the law by their majority. As mentioned at the outset, this government does not even respect the laws it has proposed or adopted. That is why, in fact, this government is the one who should resign rather than the President of the National Assembly. But I advise the coalition that for the sake of the future of this temple, please, at least gentlemen, and do it as it is done – gather the majority. If the Prime Minister has said that a constructive untrustworthy person is a worthless and ordinary mockery because there are only 39 signatures, what you have done with 38 signatures is unheard of.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, others present, welcome! I just want to tell you a few facts. First of all, there are many who compare my resignation before the time, before a good year, with the resignation or non-department of the President so far. I'm the first to say that the situation is not comparable. At the time of the creation of a new coalition that had a majority under any criterion, I immediately realized that it was time for me to resign. As long-standing practice in this House is not always, but is long-standing that the President of Parliament is of the coalition. It's always a practice. Common and majority practice, but not always, is that from the second largest client in the coalition. I understand it's my duty as a politician to admit it and step down immediately. And that's what I did. Today it is quite clear to me that President Igor Zorčič, if he went to mathematics, does not really have any reason to resign. What does he see when we have more than one type of opposition? We have one opposition, also called the KUL opposition, which has 39 votes. We have a new group of Members and Members with four votes, or I don't know exactly where they are yet, but if they add up, it's 43. And two other opposition parties. And we have a coalition that, however I turn, weighs less than 39 votes than the KUL has. That's the first fact. The second fact is that you will not think that I am defending Mr Zorčič because I highly appreciate him. I am the one who was in pre-election meetings with Mr Mir Cerar, Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Erjavac. There they all said that they would never go to the government led by Mr. Janez Janša. When they spoke like that, I understood that they were not talking about a person, because ad person's politics should not be present. But about the kind of politics. At least I thought they weren't speaking for themselves, because they weren't invited as some individuals, but on behalf of the political groups that are going to the elections. All of these political groups, including Mr Igor, have decided differently over time. But I'm not going to judge this, because the electorate and the electorate who elects the Social Democrats are not going to vote anyway. This is a matter of discussion between these political parties and their constituents and voters. Maybe they can explain, maybe they can't. That's another thing. The third thing is that these threats received by individual Members and Members, if you do not vote as we think, and execute the Corporal over the National Assembly, will immediately be the elections. Please, please, the elections should have been a few months ago. [[…]] That would be best for this country. And don't say it's political stability. As unstable countries as we have now, we have never had one. The country, because the top of the country hopes to fight with the President of America, because we are dealing with the European Parliament because we are charging with the opposition if it does not jump up as it wants, with NGOs, with expertise. This is my definition of a very unstable country. And early elections are a serious opportunity to achieve some stability that we urgently need. So if there is a result, but I do not believe, because I see with what joy you are in the government, you are in power if today's vote is the result of early elections within two or three months, it is the most beautiful thing that can happen in Slovenia, and I am afraid that, despite all that, if this coup against Mr President is not carried out today, it will not happen. These are just empty threats to direct Members to press the right button or circle the right side of the voice box. President, it's a good thing you didn't step down. It would be appropriate if there were no early elections to agree in the National Assembly on how, taking into account the proportionality of the number of MEPs and MPs, it would be appropriate to lead Parliament to the elections whenever they would. Because it is now that we have a group of Members who have 4 Members, and at the same time the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and two committee presidents, and then we have a group of Members who have 4 Members who have nothing at all, this is an unsustainable situation. Above all, we must agree on how this Parliament can lead to elections in a democratic and respectful manner, whether they are extraordinary or regular. In some ways, however, you, Mr President, can also provide us with reasonable guidance to those of us who are here until the first elections. Guarantee [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. The task of the President of the National Assembly of this Assembly, where we are sitting together, is to chair the meetings of our assembly in a neutral manner, allowing for a normal discussion, leading the entire meeting in the sense that this discussion takes place on a level and that it is equal, not favouring any group. In principle, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, which is a small constitution, there is no need for the President of the National Assembly from the ruling coalition. My colleagues have already made this clear in previous discussions that this is not a rule at all, even though it was a practice and it is an understandable practice somewhere to ensure more uniform guidance, so to speak. Only this practice has led to this single leadership, as has already been pointed out, that the government has already dictated to Parliament, and the feeling that representatives of the government and the Prime Minister don't even answer the questions of parliamentarians anymore, but they just reject them, reject them and pretend to say so. In fact, this predominance of the executive branch over the highest legislative authority has recently become evident. My opinion is, although I must say that I am not at any point on Zorčič's side, because he has also repeatedly strongly rejected us and stopped us, led a matter of his own, not listening to our direction, but I must say that when he came to the table when he led us, it was a real relief compared to that of the ruling party. However, there were interruptions, arguments, vote-taking, offensiveness, sharpness and dialogue in this House fell to zero. So I wouldn't welcome this direction and this intention that we're going to, so I'm going to vote against getting rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. The Constitution is very clear. The government corresponds to the National Assembly, paragraph 110, which is applicable to any government. Article 114 of the Constitution defines what the tasks of the Government and the Prime Minister are. No law specifies that the Executive Branch of the National Assembly should set up a President or a President. Personally, I think we should go into change and elect the President or the President of the National Assembly with 60 votes. Because it's the first one in the '90s that we care about constitutionality. We are currently living a time of smallness, we are living a time of escalating primitiveism, we are living a time of indulgence with an authority that has already gone too far into arrogance, which has been best seen in Professor Simoniti, we are living for a time when the minds have already begun to pass into dangerous foolishness, which has been seen very clearly in the non-conformity of the vaccine. And it's up to all of us, all of us, 90 of us, so-called machine guns and those who said you were going to do something good for Slovenia, as well as those in the middle, SNS, Left, for example. We're all responsible for this. We found ourselves in a position called a dead end in Sarajevo and in Maribor that we are in a blizzard. I'm not gonna call now, we're going to the election, we're not going to the election, and so on. We have a formal minority government that has 38 arms or votes, we have a constitutional opposition that has 39 votes, we have four that have yet to decide, we have a representative of the national community who gets kicked into some role where they usually don't, although sometimes this has happened, and we have a group that Janša published when he was in the opposition. And that's some state we actually have. At least what you'd expect is you come with 46 signatures and then we'll talk about it. If we're talking about the state we're in, I said it as a joke before, and I'm actually serious about who I'd like to see as the new president or president of the National Assembly. This man, who sits on my left, colleague of Predrag Baković, who is most calm, the most serious among us, as well as in his previous professional life, has been pushed around by the blue lights this time so that this will not happen to him, which unfortunately happens too often. You know, in serious parliaments, you have to sit in Parliament two times to learn something. These are the words of an expert associate from this 30-year internship here. We have a problem here, too. The President or the President of the National Assembly must be someone who doesn't really need it, who really won't mean anything to him, because he's really going to poop on everyone who wants to screw him, whether it's John or Franz Duck or Micah Kordish as future Prime Minister if he ever does. Because he must be the first guardian or guardian of the Constitution. I'm actually saddened by my premier colleague. If you want to remain a serious Member in my eyes, you should reject this rude invitation. With this, the NSI might be traveling to some future great coalition that we probably need to bury this cultural struggle that we have been fighting since the 1980s. But I'm afraid that's not going to happen. As regards what our Matjaž said, the marketing authorisations will be extended until 9 May. No water burns and it would be healthy for us and the government to go to the store lockdown, to direct the ball a little bit, as they say in football, to calm the hormones a little bit more, and then after the Mayan, we could perform all this retumbation that some have talked about. But, of course, now we're at the trough. You know, luckily I come from a family with long-lived women. In hundreds of years this people have survived many things, and we will survive this Jansho, not be afraid. But some of you will be carrying a bag over your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u40	Thank you very much. When you look at this sadly similar to this National Assembly, where all the committee relationships have long been broken down in the boards, we have a coalition here that counts 38 votes, but this coalition has a prime minister who plays a game of sinking boats. Today it detonates this social subsystem, this autonomous institution, executes a desant at the NPU, executes a desant on regulators, yet it does not appoint state prosecutors, retains or invents new conditions for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors post-festums, in short, we have a prime minister who does not respect or separate different branches of government that interferes with the judiciary and today interferes with the legislative branch of the authorities. Where, though, does it say that the President of the National Assembly should actually be a member of a coalition that formally counts 38 votes? As I say, and that's what everyone said before me, 46 votes, if you put in 46 votes, then it's a completely different story. What's happening today is a farce. But our Prime Minister imagines that he can dismantle everything, he can afford to invite even the leader of the European Parliament's Group to monitor the respect of democracy, Sophie and 't Veld to resign. He's just imagining it. This man is actually imagining it. But here we have the National Assembly, respected and respected. The National Assembly should have some basic integrity. Messengers and Members of Parliament are the electors of the people. Janez Janša didn't put us here. Nor is it our duty to follow what John Janša envisioned. It is our duty to defend the reputation of this institution, the integrity of this institution. The fact is, a respected minority coalition, you have formally 38 votes. Everything else is either trade or blackmail with early elections, which we know will not be, for John Janša is entrenched in all sorts of scruples. If that were not the case, John Janša would be the one to withdraw with 38 votes in the coalition. In every normal democracy this would have happened, but John Janša will not, of course, give up. John Janša will only threaten those who may be frightened and fear early elections to be early elections. They will not be, respected and respected, until John Janša has the feeling that he can rule. And here, shame in this National Assembly, would – what? They all submitted to John Janša. I don't think that's the way. I think it's the National Assembly – we're talking about the legislative branch of power, about those we're setting up ministers, and we've finally confirmed Janez Janša. Today, it would probably be very difficult to confirm John Janshoe in this constellation. I wonder how much democracy actually remains. Instead of correcting broken relationships in committees and commissions, where there is complete chaos, where there is no real reflection of the situation, everything is completely confused, you are going to replace the President of the National Assembly because this is what Janez Janš thought. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I respectfully ask you to be respectful. If you want, we can also stop the meeting and we'll continue when you get a little cold. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please be respectful and do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Good evening! Today we are living in a situation that we cannot be proud of, in any way, primarily because of the predominance of a policy that calls for unity and cooperation in public and with less sincerity, and in fact does everything that divides, conflicts and contradictions within society deepen and creates an atmosphere in which narrow party interests over the interests of citizens are created. Today, Slovenia is in a situation in which, because of these interests, our legislation is ignored, laws are not enforced and the foundations of a democratic state are threatened, including the division of power and freedom of the media. Igor Zorčič is aware of this, so he did not sit with his hands crossed. This realization was an alarm for him, after which he and some colleagues decided that he could no longer support this policy and cooperate with its operators. No function, private and public benefit outweighs the danger posed by such irresponsible political behaviour. The fact that the Vice-President of the Executive Authority speaks out publicly about who will be the President of the legislative body is very clear about the entirely arbitrary and non-democratic political atmosphere. His diction, and more importantly, were so eloquent that no doubt we have a clear message. Everything is decided in the government's office. Institutions seem only to provide an illusion of democracy. Therefore, the change in the aggregate situation in one party is not the reason for the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly and therefore the change in the aggregate situation in the other parliamentary group is the reason for the recall of the President of the National Assembly. The exceptional circumstances of work cannot justify conduct to the detriment of the majority which harm the reputation of the State. With this awareness, Igor Zorčič, as the first of the Members, constantly warned of possible shortcomings. Last but not least, a deeply escalated personal and political disagreement with the option he was part of has led him to this moment. And this moment is a moment of historic truth and democratic decision whether to preserve the main protection of parliamentary democracy or to kneel against the dictatorship and make Parliament a direct and controlled reality show. If he has to go, he will leave with his head raised — I say that because I know him — and for very good reasons. But whoever, as his successor, will order the hanging of the image of Igor Zorčič in the gallery of former presidents, will have to make a damn good effort to maintain the standard of leadership of the National Assembly. How this will succeed in an atmosphere of unconditional obedience can only be known by God himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the first round of debates. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. The first one has the word Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This is not an agreement of the coalition today, nor is it an indication of some power relations in this national assembly. It's just a desire for supremacy and a desire for power. Before continuing, I would still take this opportunity to thank President Igor Zorčič for his obedience and cooperation, for understanding the importance of the National Assembly as the highest institution in the country and its reputation within and outside the country. Last but not least, he was the President, and there is still a difference between the silence of Members, who are also seen in the National Assembly, and between what is a normality for the functioning of Parliament. 38 votes is the reality this coalition has today. Every voice over this is the voice of the desperate, the Members, who betrayed their constituents a year ago, and the voice of those who will be ashamed to come before the people for a while. We have seen many times the humiliating attitude of the government towards this House towards the parliament which has set up this government. And Parliament is over this government, colleagues and colleagues. Ignorance of legislation adopted on behalf of the people is ignorance of the people. You know, Parliament is not the property of government, even less is owned by one man, Janez Janša, Parliament is owned by people. The elected Members and Members of this National Assembly represent citizens and citizens. And an action like this, this trade that you're essentially doing, and a reference to something that you're actually doing on your own, that is, you have a member of the Government that's not a member of the coalition, you have a Vice-President of the National Assembly, which is not a member of the coalition, is a duality without chance. This way, I strongly oppose. You have no respect for this House in the coalition, and that is, in fact, what bothers me the most, and what hurts me. Because it's an institution that I think is statehood. The collapse of the presidency in this way is also a breakdown of statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I expected that the matter would be more calm and that Mr Zorčič would somehow respect some of the rules that have been in force in this house since then. But in view of the fact that it did not happen, we must say that in any of our positions we did not see Mr Zorčič's bad work or anything that you have been saying all along in the debates. We must not forget that you, Mr Zorčič, at the time that we proposed him as a candidate, were smooth about denying him and reading him many things, least of all treason, and now you are talking about how he was the best and without him you can't live. At the time, the LMŠ stated that it could not under no circumstances support him as President of the National Assembly, but he has been a Member and a colleague of yours for a long time, and now you are moving around, and you are talking about some other things. Comrade Zorčič also says that non-participation in the coalition should not be the reason for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. At the time when our colleague, Matthew Tonin, was president of the National Assembly, he also signed a proposal for a solution. Even then, we all said that Matthew Tonin was a good president of the National Assembly and that this was not a problem. None of us bothered to do that. We are all aware that in the National Assembly, the coalition appoints the President of the National Assembly. This fact was true, and I hope it will continue, because if not, we will have anarchy. Now you're all pretending to read Zorčič and knock him down in some undemocratic way, that it's no practice, that we're looking for some witches and so on. That's not true! Mr Zorčič decided at some point to move outside the coalition, and this is certainly a sufficient reason to go into a proper procedure. And this is the procedure we have ahead of us. In order not to burden the National Assembly, Members, with some additional extraordinary meetings, we have done this very elegantly when things were clear. And now you're trying to trick yourself into reading to him a lot of things. We're not reading anything to him. That's how he decided at some point and did it. You're aware that we've filed a case with 38 votes. You have been collecting votes for six months to put a new government term on the table, and you have finally submitted this by 10 votes. Does that tell you anything? The previous Prime Minister also did not have majority support in terms of signatures, but at the time, as a non-acquisitional party, Levica supported it, and neither did any of us have any problem with you making a proposal without sufficient signatures. So take a look at the back of the mirror, and discuss it. Once again, no one sees anything. These are some of the rules that apply and must be respected. Those of you who have been Members for a long time are aware of this, so I am sad that some of you are discussing and talking about some new practices in this National Assembly. And no one will decide for us. Mr Tonin, who also said in his statement, was asked whether it would be Matthew Tonin or if it would be Zdravko Restoršek. And he said the proposal would be for Matthew Tonin. Now you're giving it a hard time. In what way? He's not setting it up. We are voting, and we will propose it when Comrade Zorčič is resolved. Many words go in a direction that is not true, and trade in the votes that have been mentioned. Once again: who traded the votes when you tried to appoint Mr Erjavac as a mandate holder? You've been dating, buying and looking for extra votes for 3, 4 months, and now you're reading to us. We just decided the moment things were clear, we didn't calculate anything. We have so many votes and we have put it in. And there's nothing wrong with that, and it's up to you or everyone else. And there's nothing wrong with that. I don't know why you have to question a procedure that is legal, legitimate, prescribed, agreed if you want, and has some practice from the past. Now you're spitting at everything that's been brought into this national council in some way and sacred. That's bullshit. Whoever supports him, who doesn't, that's the other thing. But don't worry that it's anyhow wrong and that someone's raping us. The minority government has also been in the previous constitution, and we have never questioned who submitted anything, with what kind of votes. It always weighs in the vote, and so it will be today. As far as I'm concerned, I also made it clear to my colleague Zorčič that, thank you for all your work and good luck on a new path.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has a word, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u48	Of course, I have a replica because Mr Krivec didn't understand me when I was discussing and saying that that's exactly the problem, because you're not reading anything to Mr Zorčič, President of the National Assembly. Nothing, you're just telling him that he stepped out of the coalition's parliamentary group. In my debate, I made it very clear that the Rules of Procedure do not lay down the condition that the President of the National Assembly is a member of any coalition group. You, Mr Krivec, know this, and it is not true that now that we are discussing today we cannot live without Mr Zorčič. But from my point of view, it's very difficult to live by looking at you, respected coalition colleagues, usurping the legislature through the executive branch of power. Through your President, you subject yourself to the legislative authority, the National Assembly, to the National Assembly through a Vice-President who determines who the new President of the National Assembly will be, but when we love the President in this House, not the government representatives. And that's what I've been discussing, Mr. Krivec. Here's my replica, here you don't understand me. We are not questioning the legitimacy of this process today, but we are problematic about the reasons for it, but as I have already mentioned, we are intruding the executive branch of power into the legislative branch of power through the Vice-Presidents of the Government and through the President of the Government. And this is what you are allowing yourself today, what you are creating in this country today: the power of one man, whether enforceable or legislative. And here's the problem of today's resolution. That's what I've been discussing, and you obviously don't understand me, and nobody's telling you that you're reading anything to Mr. President of the National Assembly. That's the problem. That's the problem, because you're not reading anything to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u49	The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u50	Your Honor! Look, you want to enforce an unwritten rule today that the President of the National Assembly comes from another most powerful coalition party. On the other hand, you are not concerned that we have a totally disrupted relationship within the committees and in the commissions. Of course not, because there's usurpation going on over these. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u51	Your Honor, tell me who you're replicating. Stick to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u52	I'm replicating the leader of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u53	That's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u54	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u55	Not when you're talking about the structure and composition of the National Assembly committees.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u56	However, he misunderstood our performance and so I reiterated to him what was going on here and what those findings were, why, at least, I find this unnecessary and undemocratic today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I respect my colleague Zorčič as a Member, and I also respect his work as President of the National Assembly. I don't think anyone today has mentioned anything, any substantive problems, any problems, complications, any bad experience that anyone would have had at the time of the presidency of the National Assembly. I do not think I have heard any comments in this respect at this time. I also personally regret that we are in a situation because the political situation and the relationship in the National Assembly are such that they cause us more problems than they make it easier for us to work here. We're on our own on this road, making extra trouble for each other. What I would like to point out is that a good year ago was seen as an excess of some kind of democracy if we have a minority government, that these relations need to be cultivated and a huge amount of energy and coordination invested. Today I hear from those of you who said this at the time that the minority government is no longer what it is, and you have to go to the elections automatically because there are not enough votes. It's all quite unusual and strange here. And at the final stage, if we're saying that this government is a minority, even when it was still chairman of the National Assembly of Mags. Tonin, we could stay there and we could implement this standard that we are talking about today or that we would like to introduce today as some new quality of operation or the establishment of a relationship between the national assembly and the government. So if we have a formal minority government, then the opposition must have its President of the National Assembly. That's how I understand here today. Let me fix it if I'm wrong, but I've understood it from many of you. This process, which is under way today, is not the assessment of Comrade Zorčič, whether he was a good or a bad president of the National Assembly, but is the result or result of some different political relationship, some different majority. Most of them appoint the presidents of the National Assembly, most of them will cancel it today, or may not cancel it, and some other majority will appoint another president of the National Assembly. This is some practice that we have not established in this government, not in the previous government, but is a standard that we have already established a long time ago that is not only in Slovenia, but elsewhere. We can be the first to change it. We can also decide that the coalition will have the President of the National Assembly, and the opposition of the President of the Government will have if we think such a solution could work. But I don't think so. And these standards probably mean something, they're probably tested, they probably have some logic behind them, there must be some synergy between the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly. There's probably some brakes and some balance, we probably have for the reason of the court, we probably have the Constitutional Court for a reason. And we didn't make that up, and it's not our legacy from the last 30 years, since we have our own country. These are years and years, centuries of development of a democratic note or democratic regime. We would like to change that today, or we would like to put it on our head. As it is said, this is not an assessment of the work of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. This is due to the practice of some different, altered relationships or some other majority. The government does not propose to withdraw it, we Members have done so. Let's please respect these standards that we didn't set, but they've put a lot in front of us if we want them to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u59	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Firstly, most means in the Slovenian National Assembly 46 or more, that is 46 signatures. Secondly, I didn't mention the early elections, Comrade Perič. Thirdly, in the oldest democracy in the world, San Marino, the government is joined by coalition and opposition. Fourthly, in the Swiss Confederation, the Prime Minister rotates every year. Practices are very different. It's a bit of a sightseeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. My friend Perič said we have standards, we didn't set them up, let's give them our respect. I totally agree with that, buddy Perič, but you have a little problem. But in the boards, you are in no hurry to respect these standards. But okay, let's just let it stop, they'd say the Navy. The Slovenian Constitution still says, at least that's what I think, Mr Trček will correct me if I'm wrong to have two separate authorities so far, these are legislative and enforceable. That's what they say. And the church is supposed to be separate from this country, as it says in the constitution. Where are we, anyway? The situation in this country is obviously a little different than it says in the constitution. And it's wrong for us to understand each other at the start. That's wrong. Right now, we have this strange state, this sick desire to rule, this sick desire for revenge, for everything back, for all 30 years ago, when someone was getting hurt. And who's gonna pay for all this? Not even those who were born. That's the problem. This isn't about Igor Zorčič at all. It's about defending this institution we're sitting in. I have a first term, and some have even been five. That's what this is about. For the basic manner in which the National Assembly stands. That's what this is about. Because what you're going to do is just take it out. It's over. Pika. You can say whatever you want here, your trolls can write what they want, they can attack whatever they want, they're facts. Whether you like it or not. Do you know what this is about? It is about having such a major conflict in Slovenia right now that I don't even know how it can be overcome. And who's causing this? Is it a quiz question or a million dollars? No, it's not. You know exactly who's doing this. You know exactly how you work, and you know exactly what you're doing to this country. And no, we're not all the same. Because I don't want to be the same as the nethers, and I don't want to be the same to all those people who write shit like that, so your stomach turns when you read it. I don't want to be the same, and I'm not, and I never will. Anyone who hopes to say anything other than what the great leader thinks will be cut off by anyone who hopes to say anything that does not please the great leader. For example, there's a thousand of them. I won't explain them at all. And the fact that in this country he no longer hopes to say what people think that ministers should not even go to interviews, that they should not make any statements – yes, what is this, then, other than the autocratic leadership of this country? There has been a lot more going on in history, and if Slovenians learned anything from history, of course this should not be the case. Unfortunately, it's happening in the 21st century. This Parliament, of course, does not own either the Prime Minister or the members of the government or any other, because it is supposed to be independent. I've never agreed with Igor Zorčič myself, and I've told him that, but it's important to say that he did the right thing. Today, in fact, and in this whole story, respected colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, and all those who are with you, it is simply your chairs. Because you're simply afraid you'll lose your privileges and you're afraid to go to the polls. I hope that all those who do this and who support it will sleep peacefully and you will be able to look your grandchildren and your children in the eye and tell them which side of history you were on and what you were doing when you were supposed to defend democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I guess not. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Golubovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u64	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65c of the LMŠ, we are forecasting obstruction. Let me explain. The President of the National Assembly shall be the representative of all Members and Members, the first of the same. If the non-governmental coalition does not have a majority of 46 votes, the President of the National Assembly must be dismissed and re-elected in agreement. This would show that the National Assembly is still pursuing some normality, not subordination. Remember, we elected the first President of the National Assembly in agreement and received a large number of votes. I think it was more than two-thirds. And that's what we should do today. But no, the minority government coalition with 38 signatures of Members and Members is going to resolve the President of the National Assembly and in a very strange way acquires eight missing votes by trading, including blackmail or the threat posed by the early elections, also by the candidate for the new President of the National Assembly. Therefore, as we have already said in the position in the LMŠ, in this charage, in this usurpation, the degradation of the National Assembly we cannot participate and we will obstruct the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u66	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 65, second paragraph, I predict that the Social Democrats will be obstructed by the vote on this point if it comes to it. What I said earlier in the position of the Group of Members, in this National Assembly, we give ourselves some functions, some want to retain functions in every way and people have more problems every day. We heard what happened a few minutes before the National Assembly. And these situations will be unfortunately more every day. People are in a lost position. However, some in this National Assembly and here in contrast to, I must say that I do not resent it, and some other parliamentary groups, I resent that, because of their functions, this coalition, which is in fact no longer a majority, is held in some way in life. Today's obstruction will prove that the next coalition will have to vote, first resolve and then vote on the new president. Whoever will be the new president, if there is, I hope that from tomorrow on, or that they will immediately start to do some sort of order in this National Assembly, what is the coalition and what is the opposition. Because some will no longer be able to sit on two chairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Moon, I ask about the obstruction, only the leader of the parliamentary group can. Make up your mind. He's just the head of the parliamentary group. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I declare the absence of all Members and Members of the Levica Group on this agenda item. The reason is simple. As I have already said in my position, we are witnessing a complete dismantling not only of this institution but of the countries. Our democracy is fragile, it shows from day to day. Today's proposal to get Igor Zorčič out of office as President of the National Assembly is just another proof of this government's action, which is trying to subdue all institutions, and today, I will say, the last, the second, separate branch of power, the legislative branch of power, which I have no doubt that if one of the coalition MPs is under tactics, it will, in particular, become some kind of voting machine for coalition and coalition manoeuvres. From this point of view, we do not intend to participate in this operation. We are convinced in Levica that in any case we should in any case take early elections as soon as possible and that the government in particular should not be concerned at this time with who it will be recruiting, who it will replace, but by, say, supplying enough vaccines to come out of this epidemiological crisis to actually take into account the recommendations of the section when taking measures in this country to start thinking about people, let's say 100 percent compensation for people in quarantine, and so on. At this point, we have a situation that is completely upside down. The government is just trying to fortify the government, and this epidemic is coming in handy, so we're not going to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper has another procedural one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u70	On behalf of the SAB Group, it would also, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, announce the obstruction of our Group of Members, hereinafter referred to as this point. I have to say, personally, I don't really like this kind of move. I believe that we are Members of the National Assembly to be here, to sit or just go to the cabin, in any case, to decide. But the situation in this National Assembly is such that it is not entirely clear who the coalition is and who the opposition is. And that coalition, which is normal and even in this case, has elected the President of the National Assembly to resolve it now and must provide sufficient votes for themselves. In order to make these relations absolutely clear, to see who is in favour and who is not in favour, such measures must be used, and in this regard, the Members of the SAB Group will also be obstructed in the continuation of this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga also has procedural features. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The same way as the speakers before me on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we announce the obstruction below. If, after all the arguments that have been on the table today, the coalition still insists on this manoeuvre, then let the manoeuvre vote on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Because Levica has obstructed and we have here one member of the Election Commission, Boštjana Koražija, so one is missing and perhaps it would suggest that someone else is proposed instead. Mrs. Zabret is coming. I ask one suggestion instead of Boštjan Koražija. Dushan Shisko? No, no, no. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u74	How can a politician be on the committee if he obstructs?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u75	I don't know. I'd like to make a suggestion. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no more cost. I would suggest that we propose the victory of Jelinčič for the elections instead of Boštjan Koražija, and I ask that we vote on this. Who's in? / off microphone/ We're voting. In 10 minutes. I'm adjourning the session. 20.05 we will continue to vote because in the second vote we failed to elect a replacement member. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 19.54 and resumed at 20.05.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. First of all, we will vote on a member of the committee who will run the vote to elect the winner of Jelinčič instead of Boštjana Koražija. Please check the operation of your devices. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a secret ballot. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the discharge of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to keep the recommended distance between them when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered, in accordance with preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word in favour or the word against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be dismissed if the majority of all Members vote in favour of discharge, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. That is why I call on all the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 8.15 p.m. and will last until 20.30 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:45 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.09 and resumed at 20.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-68.ana.u77	Dear Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting. We continue with the consideration of the terminated 1st item of the agenda. It is a proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 30 March 2021. 47 ballots were distributed. Forty-seven ballots were delivered. There were two votes invalid, 45 votes valid. 45 members voted in favour, no one voted against. As the majority of all Members did not vote in favour of resolution, Igor Zorčič is not dismissed from office as President of the National Assembly on the basis of the outcome of the vote. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 68th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
