ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Violeta Tomić by 11:00, Gregor Židan, mag. Dušan Verbič, Samo Bevk by 2 p.m., Predrag Baković by 12 p.m. and Franz Jurša. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following Members and Members have announced, for today, their participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using the remote application: Iva Dimic, mag. Meira Hot, Rudy Medved, Ferenc Horváth and Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovac. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, urgent procedure. We continue our debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. The first one has the word Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. In this law on the implementation of budgets, the government has taken accountants to protect arms purchases. These arms purchases are highly controversial for more than one reason. If I start off on a purely formal basis, this law on the implementation of the budget violates even a series of articles of the Constitution. The one that bothers me most is that the one who hurts most is trying to break the law on the implementation of budgets, which has allowed special purchases of €780 million and which is currently being stopped in the Constitutional Court. In Levi, we stopped the law with the signatures of 30,000 citizens and citizens, with whom we jointly requested that the country's priorities be discussed at the referendum and that the referendum also decided on them. Whether we will spend €780 million on weapons or something else is a fundamental issue of national priorities. Of course, we can listen from government and coalition benches, if we are to find money for everyone. There must be 780 million for weapons and then we must find money for health care, for social protection, for development, for the economy, and I don't know what else. The sad truth in practice, when we draw the line once, is that every euro that goes into the arms business is lost for the development needs and well-being of citizens and citizens of this country. 780 million euros from the integrated budget, even more, is to determine what the country's capacity will be to do over the next few years. This is not some one-off action, one-off expenditure, this is an expenditure that will block the country's development potential for the next few years, because there will be no money for everything else. The greatest danger within this is that if either the Tonin Special Law or the ZIPRS we are dealing with enters into force, the government will be able to sign virtually overnight all kinds of arms contracts, which then the living soul will not be able to cancel or in the event of cancellation will come to a very large penalty. Thus, all the next governments, regardless of what these governments will be, regardless of their political will to invest in the public health system, will, for example, possess bounds because there will be no money. He will be devoured by armored men, rocket systems, and other weapons that the government of John Janša intends to purchase. In doing so, we must not blind ourselves to the fact that 780 million will actually remain. Arms dealing is far from the most corrupt business ever done anywhere. With us alone, let us look at all the major military supplies that have been imported from the case of Patrie further, even in other countries, nothing is better. We can say that the specificity of the vicious military industry, by the way, also NATO's military summit is nothing more than a meeting of various merchants from the leading countries of NATO. There are also specific corruption risks in this sector and there are particularly high commissions. Only a transport aircraft with which Minister Tonin so much likes to hit his chest has his price increased from 50 to 70 million euros. The story before we followed her, oshkoshi, 4x4, practically every week, the number jumped. The previous attempt to buy 8x8 armors began, if I am not mistaken, at 200 and several million, and ended at a price of over 400 million euros. By proposing in Levica to resolve the issue of accounting services and to extend their deadlines in the second law, we have prepared it, if I am not mistaken, we have already made it public. This is where such things are being resolved, not in the law on the implementation of the budget. With ZIPRS, we draw these provisions out and prevent the government from continuing to take the accounting officer hostage. At the same time, the law on the implementation of the budget must also leave any clause that gives the government of Janez Janša the power to buy weapons and sign arms transactions that are so urgent on behalf of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. People in this country, as well as those 30,000 signatures collected for the referendum, want everything but weapons. They know what they need, and they know because their daily experiences and their daily hardships lead them to do so. For example, when young people are involved in finding apartments, rents in Ljubljana are scrapbooks, there are 10 000 public rental apartments. Or when any of us finally, when we go to the doctor, see what the situation is, we stand in the waiting line, the equipment is worn out, especially now that the public health system is under the pressure of the covida-19 epidemic, it shows how very bad the fault was the deficit of past investments in this public health system. If I end up with a threesome, which I see as a three-way social priority, the older in the waiting line for beds, the older citizens' homes lack 12,000 beds. Instead of saving it, instead of investing heavily in the construction of new public homes that would be made to the extent of every old man, regardless of his material condition, he does what? He's signing concessions. He does not take care of the elderly as his own, as something that would be the duty of a country that calls itself a social one, but that the question of safe age turns into a business for the elderly and their families to be made by capitalists abroad or by lobbyists at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I suggest that all future debaters focus on what is stated in the amendment in particular. The rest will be handled differently, and you can also make a law that will open up the subject. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Okay. I'm reopening the application. First, Igor Pekček gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! We will certainly insist in the LMŠ soup that only the shoes belong to the hooves. In light of what I'm saying, I'd like to point out two things. The first is that the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are considering today, shows the government's attitude towards democratic principles, the rule of law and, last but not least, the Constitutional Court. Another time. I would not like to define myself to the content and judgment of when and what equipment our military needs, more possibly on this further, I certainly have my opinion and I give priority to the profession. The law on the implementation of budgets is more than a technical law to set out for a specified period the detailed composition of the State budget, the specificities of its implementation, the use of resources, dedicated revenue and so on. I don't think I need to mention the content or text of Article 1 of the law, as defined by ZIPRS, which I believe we know. It is also true, and regrettably, that in recent years we have been pushing the content that does not belong to it, or the content that represents not only technical implementation of the budget, but also substantively. In my opinion, this goes beyond the purpose of the law pursued by ZIPRS, but it does not cause any serious breach, such as a violation of the principle of legality. In the event that the provisions of ZIPRS regulate and foresee the use of those funds which have been retained by the Constitutional Court in another law, this, in my view, violates not only the principle of legality but also the principles of the rule of law. And that, dear colleagues, is what you are actually doing today when you want to adopt provisions which include in the law also investments in the law that the Constitutional Court has held back. The Constitutional Court has a special role to play in our legal order. I do not need to stress in particular that in our country of law the decisions of the Constitutional Court need to be respected. The Constitutional Court shall, whenever it considers that the implementation of a particular law could have serious irreparable consequences, retain or prohibit the application of such a law until it adopts a final substantive decision as to whether a law or legal provision or part thereof is inconsistent with the Constitution. This happened with the Act on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army. This is also clear from the decision of the Constitutional Court. But apparently the Government does not care about the conduct or position of the Constitutional Court, nor does it care about the legal order which, at least as far as I know, should still apply in our country of law. I can imagine that in the coalition today's proposal for a law concerning this article, which in some way plays out the Constitutional Court's decision, you see as some kind of skilled manoeuvre or something that is still acceptable and at the border of possible. In addition, just before you arrive in the draft law, you add a supplement to the extension of the deadlines for the submission of reports to Furs and Apes, although in early January the Association of Accounting Services addressed a request to the Government for substantial reasons and a desire to extend this deadline. We have also been alerting the LMŠ for some time now, and we have also tabled amendments to extend this deadline and have submitted a request to the Finance Committee for an urgent meeting. In a way, we can be pleased that the Government has at least partly listened to our initiative, even though it could have done so much earlier and in a less controversial way, which in fact we are all in some way also having problems. But anyway, we've achieved something. In the LMŠ we believe that the Slovenian state needs an army, we have repeatedly said this, an army with adequate equipment, soldiers who are properly motivated and have to carry out their tasks provided by all conditions, including financial ones. We support the development of the Slovenian defence system and the strengthening of the reputation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the international community. We have also followed this in the past government and in the rebalancing of the 2019 budget and in the budgets for 2020 and 2021 for the development of the defence system, we have foreseen more resources than we have earmarked in previous years, and in some ways also stopped the negative trend of the reduction in resources in the Slovenian Army. But measures in the area of strengthening military structures and defence systems have been designed in different, more stable and more predictable circumstances. Unfortunately, the covida epidemic has not yet been completed. Its effects on the economy and on people have not been met. We still do not know what condition our country will be in in the coming years, so the solution proposed in the article of the bill would be inappropriate in the light of the circumstances and, in our opinion, irresponsible action. However, as far as my support for the proposed amendments is concerned, I will be less political than very political politicians, and I will follow that, above all, the objective based on an expert and substantive basis needs to be pursued and, above all, keep in mind the importance and value of the objective that we want to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Much has already been said about ZIPRS already on the Committee on Finance itself, but I still believe that the ZIPRS we have today is nothing more than that the Government wants to force what you cannot through the regular procedure. This is about raising defence spending, redistributing EU funds with a Bianca menu and lowering standards for public service reports. Above all, it is sad to talk about the rule of law on the one hand and, on the other hand, to scrupulously violate it and to seek out circuits, which is unacceptable. In fact, the Act itself on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army during the period 2021-2026 was already the first circuit. The fact is that this law would not be needed because investments in the military are already defined as an exception after ZIPRS and, of course, with a certain financial constraint on taking on commitments for the following years. But because you've thought of a high number, it's 780 million, it's impossible to get it out of ZIPRS, so you've come up with a special law to secure money in budgets in the period 2021-2026. But it's stuck. In January, the Constitutional Court stopped you from implementing this law. And since you're obviously afraid of losing in the Constitutional Court, you're looking for new ways to raise money and realize the law in some other way. With the ZIPS we have on the table today, you will allow the military to acquire military equipment beyond the rules applicable to all other users, so that they must have the resources in the budget. In the proposed ZIPS you have no restrictions, you can sign contracts for as long as you want, and when the budget for 2023 comes, you will say that you need so much for military equipment because we have signed contracts. Above all, it is also disputed that the ZIPRS cannot be described as a referendum, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, but that is what you are getting into. On the Committee on Finance, I asked the Secretary of State whose investments it was because it was not supposed to be the same investment as under law, but I did not get a concrete answer. However, it is a fact that the Legislative and Legal Service also points out that the same matters are concerned, as the amendment to Article 30 of the ZIPRS follows the same objective as the law and regulates the same matter as the Act on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian military during the period 2021-2026, by causing the same legal effects. Both documents refer to the same programmes, namely the general long-term programme for the equipment and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programme for its implementation. So it's hard to talk about two different things. We are aware of the need to modernise the Slovenian Armed Forces, but in any way taking into account the general public financial situation in the country, that there will be no mistake as has already been heard today. The situation has changed when, due to the consequences of co-vid and the fall in economic growth, the public financial picture is not the most rosy but, above all, still unknown. The epidemic's not over yet. We still have completely closed down certain economic sectors, such as catering, tourism, the industry of meetings that were most affected by the epidemic and their income decreased by more than half in 2020. In the current epidemiological picture, we don't even know what else awaits us, what surprises the current government is. The government should focus its thoughts and actions on the exit strategy, how we will operate after the copilot, what will happen when all these measures cease to apply. We see already that certain companies are leaving Slovenia and, unfortunately, unemployment is also on the rise. There are still a few zombie companies that currently have all these measures on the level. The fact is, we won't be able to escape. The Umarje forecast also says that recovery after activities will be different and that, in particular, the services most affected by the crisis will not begin to recover until 2023. These certainly aren't good predictions. And to conclude on this amendment, I will be particularly interested in the other amendments. The adoption of this Article or ZIPRS will constitute a failure to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is the exercise of the right of voters to vote in the referendum. In short, any rule of law is difficult to speak of.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. First, he asked for the word from a government representative. Mr. Lampret, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me only to briefly answer this question, which projects we are talking about. I think we've talked about this before on the committee. I apologize if I haven't made myself clear. I was talking about it last night, too. I'd like to start a step or two earlier. We all say what projects this administration has planned to implement. These are the same projects decided by the National Assembly in 2010 when we adopt strategic documents, which we repeat over and over again. You also know that in 2018 this solution, which was proposed in the Budget Implementation Act today, was proposed and accepted by the Government, but was withdrawn before the hearing in the National Assembly. Also, the last document at the strategic level of the White Paper of the Ministry of Defence has drawn up legal solutions for the implementation of key equipment projects of the Slovenian Armed Forces in January 2020 during the implementation of the same White Paper. About the projects. The material we are dealing with or touching ZIPRS in defence investments is much narrower than in the Investments Act. We are only talking about multi-annual commitment without preconditions. Other issues, such as the level of investment and the limits, are not addressed by this matter. We say that the Ministry of Defence allows investment funds already available in the adopted budgets for 2021 and 2022. Without this option, the Ministry of Defence cannot spend already authorised investment funds. Now there are four concrete projects for this year, which are also visible from the development programme plan. The first are the communication and information system for the Slovenian Army, the modernisation of military infrastructure in the Vojašnica Edward Pepperk, and the tactical transport aircraft and the upgrade of the Bell 412 helicopters. For three of them, we don't need these ZIPRS changes. However, we need to proceed with procedures for the acquisition of a tactical transport aircraft, because it has been decided that this is one of the priorities. Thank you very much, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? I see there's still interest, so we'll start the application process. There are five registered. First he gets the word Luke Moon. But I suggest we focus on the content of the amendment. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	Thank you very much. One nice hello again! I'll repeat our crucial reservation to this marriage. With this law, the government is trying to create a legal basis for arms purchases past the 780 million law currently held in the Constitutional Court. I don't think there's any dilemma here. I don't think there's any dilemma that this is very unconstitutional, as I said several times yesterday, contrary to the five articles of the Constitution. This is not just my opinion, this is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And thirdly, we have tried to cut out this piece on the committee, which speaks of creating an anti-constitutional legal basis for arms purchases, and from the law, the coalition has overtaken us. But you did something else in the coalition. In the moment that you heard the word "referendum," when we said we were going to defend the right of the people to a referendum and that we were going to defend the constitutional arrangements for the referendum, you took the accounting services into law and took them hostage. As my colleague from LMSH said before me. Since the end of January 2021, accounting services have called on the Government to arrange a one-month closure decision because we are living in emergency situations and because they have inadequate work due to the reimbursement of costs related to cod measures and so on. And you didn't hear them until the day we mentioned the referendum. But then you put them in this marriage to try today and to try to turn the debate on them in the future. So now this is no longer a debate about arms acquisition. This is now a debate on accounting services. When we say we're going to a referendum against the acquisition of 780 million or more weapons, you'll say, no, this referendum is against accounting services. It's not. Therefore, this is the explanation of the amendments, we are trying to take those parts of the law that are positive, so this part that regulates the financing of researchers, and this part that regulates the accounting services, from this law, so that they will not be the hostage of a dispute that absolutely does not concern them. As said yesterday, we have prepared a solution, a law regulating accounting services and which can be adopted on Tuesday. However, the condition that this law can be dealt with is that our amendment, which cuts out this part of the accounting services, can be adopted from this law because two laws cannot regulate the same things. We are not going to do that, and the services of the National Assembly will not allow us to do that. But you're going with this marriage. You have a law in the Constitutional Court that regulates the same thing as the one you accept today. And that's not what you do. It's legally called an anemia. So you have two laws that regulate the same thing, and this law you've given today is worse because it's less transparent. The Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, which is at the Constitutional Court, provides that the ceiling for the purchase of 780 million is. The purchases are arranged over the years and each year the government has to report to the National Assembly on what it is doing. In this law that you have now given, none of it: no fuses, no thresholds, no limits, in short, we sign a clean bill. A clean bill of cheques for the purchase of weapons that could go to a billion. Yesterday, I said several times, the first purchase, the transport aircraft you are purchasing, in a few months, has risen from €50 million to €72 million, which is almost a 50% increase. And then we can assume that there will be no 780 million, but there will be substantial more. I am also saying this because the arms industry is already lobbying with the government. Transparency is like this, we've acquired it through the KPK, these are the reports. It was Elbit Systems on Thursday, December 10th, doesn't know who. Oh, he was at Mr. Korosc's, and then there's no telling what the content of this conversation was, because the report we can get on KPK looks like this. This isn't a photoshop. This is the actual report from the KPK. Seven pages of the document, all blacked out. And how can we trust you to deal with this money that you're about to sign your check for now? No other arms purchases in Slovenia have been transparent and I do not know what this should be according to such documents. Finally, I would say that this is also a choice of social priorities. Only for the army. The white books are also elsewhere, so we're not wrong. There's a White Paper for health care, too. But not for health care, not for long-term care, nor for housing, there is such a tendency to move something in these areas. For ten years, everyone has been shouting that there are 10 000 public rental apartments for young people in Slovenia. And I've never heard anyone in this government say that, but now we have to put a billion in apartments as a priority, I don't know. And you could probably make that 10,000 a billion, that's about 100,000 per apartment. It's not. Even for health care. Mr Poklukar, current minister, said that only the UKC would need 900 million investments if we wanted to turn it into a decent centre as it should be. And I haven't heard any such urges here either. But I've heard that we're supposed to be funding this from European funds, but you've shown that. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan has been confirmed by the Government, with €5 billion in it, of which €200 million is for health. And that's all. So we insist that, as you have now done, we must not play the constitutional order, that people and the right to a referendum should not be played in this way, and that we must discuss where to invest most likely a billion euro in a referendum. We are a democratic country with a constitutionally guaranteed right to referendum. People have the right to decide on key investments for the next six years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Urosh Lampret, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Thank you, Chairman. Let me give you a quick answer about the plane, but I tried last night. More numbers are spinning. What numbers are we talking about? In the Investments Act, which I also consider to be a very good law, it was a very good law, not because it was a law last year, but because it was the way this country bought weapons 20 years ago. In this law, in the sub-programme Aviation we have limited funds up – 128 million euros for a transportable aircraft and for two medium-sized transport helicopters for special forces. That was the limit from the law. But now we're talking about something else. We are talking about the use of investment funds that have already been adopted. With the information you're operating with, even last night, this 72 million euros I said was a reservation in the NRP, we made this reservation. That doesn't mean we have that price for the plane. This does not mean that this aircraft is selected because we do not have the opportunity to continue with a project that is a priority project for the whole country, not just for the Slovenian Army until we have the possibility of taking on financial bonds. Part of these investment funds that are already authorised will go this year, the second year and then we do not have the Bianca check, which is two plus two ZIPS, but we are 100% limited to the permit from 2021 and 2022. And without that, we can't continue this project. That's why this marriage is so much more important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Replica, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	Thank you. So we can understand each other about these numbers. We can conclude on prices based on information obtained from documents such as the NRP. Other information is looking at us like that. Second thing. This 780-million-dollar investment law, I don't know why you're talking about it in the past, isn't dead, this law is kept in the Constitutional Court and you'll probably have to defend it at the referendum. I hope so. But that doesn't mean you have any right to play the Constitutional Court. The retention of this decision takes place literally for the first time, as I recall, in the National Assembly. No government has ever been able to afford it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, Mr Lampret, you say that you have only booked 70 million and a few million for a transport plane, in Levica we say that the price of a transport aircraft has jumped from 50 million euros to 70 million. We have good reasons for that conclusion. Let's just see what happened to the purchase of the Oshkosh 4x4, with the latest attempts to buy 8x8 armors, not until the Patria affair. In practice, prices have doubled in exactly this way throughout the process. There were reservations, then additional equipment was sought etc etc. etc., and now we compare this with another fact. Have you made a similar reservation in development programmes and elsewhere in the supply of funds for public homes for the elderly? You're not. Have you, in the same way, in national development programmes or elsewhere reserved funds for the restoration of an infection clinic for the modernisation of other hospitals across the country that do not tighten their windows, where they do not have a water supply where they are deprived of their interference? You're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Comrade Kordish, please limit yourself to the necessary explanation related to the replica and not to other things. We're moving on. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps first, I agree with the Minister of Health, Mr Poklukar, who says, according to colleague Luka Mesec, that only UKC Ljubljana needs 900 million. The real idea is what we are thinking in Novi Slovenije, to build a new UKC Ljubljana somewhere on the outskirts of Ljubljana. I continue to thank you, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, who tolerates a broad debate, in fact, because, last night and today, virtually no one has discussed Article 2 or the amendment of the Left to Article 2, but it is only about the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army for the period 2021-2026. I have to thank my colleague Luke Mesec for yesterday's lesson in the alphabet of politics, even though he is not here. I listened to him, listened to his lesson, and listened to someone else, because I guess it's always good to find a different opinion about things in life. I listen and read, say, Dr. Klemen Jaklič, PhD in Oxford, United Kingdom and Harvard, U.S.A., and graduated from constitutional law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. He got Fulbright's scholarship, continued his doctoral research there. He was elected — this is very important — to a narrow group of scientists who worked under the leadership of the world’s leading authorities in the field of constitutional law, including some Nobel laureate. So now I have a dilemma as to who to take into account or ABC policies after Luke or maybe something from constitutional law after Jaklič. As I presented yesterday the views of the Group on this law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I have pointed out respect for the Constitution, of course, but of what articles some do not speak if they do not fit. It's interesting that there wasn't much talk about Article 90. I was proud, and I am proud that, at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we voted in favour of amending the 90th Article of the Constitution of Slovenia, because this was necessary because certain cases were blocked in this country with referendums that you could easily produce. And then we said, Article 90, there can't be a referendum on laws that talk about defence matters. This is not what Mr Luka is talking about in his ABC policy, nor is he talking about the 34th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which for us is extremely important for New Slovenia, as is everyone else. But in this context, this is the most important one. What's he saying? He's talking about the rights to personal dignity and security. For us, four values are fundamental: human dignity, freedom, justice and security. Article 34 states that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. This article in effect establishes the constitutionally ordered duty of the State, which states that the State commands by law, the Constitution commands the State to ensure the personal dignity and security of all citizens and citizens of that State. This Article also ensures that, at any time and in the medium and long term, the State must effectively ensure the security of every individual and sovereign, human being as a whole. Such a state of effective security is not guaranteed, colleagues and colleagues, where the military of the State is financially malnourished in the long term. Has the Slovenian Army been fed in the long run or not? Is it or isn't it? I guess at least at this point we're united that she's been fed in the long run. And, yes, that the Slovenian Army is in such a chronically fed state is confirmed by professional, not political, professional, evaluations both at national and international level. With regard to national level, the fact that so far the growth of investment funds for the purposes of the Slovenian Armed Forces does not provide the necessary developmental leap and modernisation that would enable the capacity of defined – pay attention! – defined in the long-term development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted – who? The National Assembly. So, I respect this agenda, the very clear agenda of the Left, which opposes the equipping of the Slovenian Army, investment, law, more precisely, and this law, but I think the right approach would be such that really opponents of what we are doing, what this government is doing in order to actually come to the National Assembly with new long-term programmes for the development of the Slovenian Army. And if it says there that we will not equip the Slovenian Armed Forces and if the National Assembly were to adopt this, then neither this law nor the real good law, which is called the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, would be necessary. That would be the right way. Not so that, on 17 August 2018, it was a public holiday, at which time the National Assembly also appointed a new mandate holder, and on the Committee on Foreign Policy we discussed the initiative to acquire equipment for the military, and that was, I say, an eclectic case of political corruption. First of all, it was suggested that this agenda item should be withdrawn from the Foreign Policy Committee. This was not accepted. However, when a Member warned that they should be counted because, on 17 August 2018, the election of the mandate-holder, Oops, then there was a panic and we came to a situation where the defence policy of the State changed so that the mandate-holder would receive a few votes. Is that what we imagine? But this went away, neither was special nor was media attention at all, because that day media attention was focused on the election of the mandate-holder. And to understand each other, of course, in New Slovenia and personally, we strictly respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But I guess as a citizen and a Member I can say that I don't agree with any if we're in a free country. The Constitutional Court is not only in my opinion, in the opinion of constitutional lawyers, but also in the opinion of a constitutional institution. Why? Because it protects the highest political act of this country, and this is the Constitution. On highly technical political issues, such as the issue of financing the state's defence capacity, the government and Parliament have a secure field of their own judgment on the necessity of action, since this is a matter of their nuclear competence and not of any powers of constitutional judges who are not – here will be Mr Luka Mesec protesting – who are neither defenders nor have specialized knowledge nor data. They have no data on such a detailed professional political issue. What I'm saying was written by Dr. Klemen Jaklič, so if anyone wants to protest or replicate, he has to. I'm the one who put that in his opinion. I hope I have this freedom. Thus, even after this extremely nice path of assessment, we would not be able to admit that, in the case of the Slovenian Military Investment Funding Act in the years 2021-2026, this is an example of the law referred to in Article 90(2) of the Constitution, namely the necessity of the measure, as seen by the Government and Parliament, and thus of the law, which cannot be contested at all by a referendum. The decision was taken by the National Assembly. Well, this is at least in the context of free democratic societies, where the constitutional profession and constitutional judgment of serious craftsmanship and political will are untouchable to the sacrament. The amendment of the Left to Article 2 and other amendments will not be supported by the parliamentary group. But we'll support the law. I agree that we may have listened too late as Members to businesses and accounting services. In this law – we can also have a long debate whether it belongs to ZIPRS or not – at least we have listened to companies and to accounting services, because we are on the Committee on Finance with a large majority, and I am grateful to everyone here, we have adopted a supplement allowing the submission of annual reports to Apes for the 2020 business year by the end of April.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I propose once again that the debaters do not spread the debate outside the article and the amendment, because I do not think there is any need for this. Next up is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I'll try to keep the contents of the amendment. However, it is very closely linked to this amendment or Article 2 of the Investments in the Slovenian Army Act and it is necessary to state the concept. This is not a matter of equipping the Slovenian Army, it is two simple facts. Article 2 provides the legal basis for investments in the Slovenian Army, which the Constitutional Court has currently retained. The second fact is that the Constitutional Court held them for a reason and only because it considered that such investments could cause irreparable damage in the light of the ban on the referendum on this issue. The President challenged the Constitutional Court's decision not to have been taken by the defence officers. Yesterday we were able to hear, and I will also point out once again, the Constitutional Court has retained the Investments in the Slovenian Army Act exclusively and only because you, a respected coalition, have adopted a decision prohibiting the referendum on this law. If we are talking about what the Constitution commands the state, Mr Horvath, then you must also be aware of the other articles in the Constitution that command the state. And this is that Slovenia is a democratic republic where, in my opinion, a referendum initiative cannot just be banned across the board. Then you must take into account Article 2 of the Constitution: “Slovenia is a rule of law.” Again in the same light, I quote this article. Article 3 of the Constitution: "In Slovenia the people have power." Again in the spirit of the referendum initiative, I quote this. And the 90th Article of the Constitution, which provides for this referendum initiative, defines it, allows it to be granted to citizens. And you just forgot those articles. What you are doing in this coalition with this play, in this case a constitutional decision, in some cases we see that you will change the laws in order to arrange something like yours, and you will correct it in return, according to yours, some “postage” laws. This simply should not be allowed in the rule of law. You need to know, Mr Horvath, that constitutional principles or constitutional articles are equivalent to each other, you cannot favour but priori one article before another. Now, in the light of the epidemic, you think everything is allowed. As far as I know, this country is facing a health crisis, an economic crisis and not a security crisis, so that all these additional millions should be earmarked right now for the purchase of some weapons. Your words from yesterday's point of view, I quote: "Today, in the 30th year of this country, we are witnessing a violent blockade on the functioning of this same country. In New Slovenia we ask and ask citizens and citizens who has the right to block the basic functions of the country, who has the power to block this country. If this continues, we will lose the country." Dear Mr. Horvath, I agree with you. If it continues to be so that you play the constitutional decisions to play the legal standard, to take the power of the fundamental constitutional institutions that we have in the country where the Constitutional Court belongs with some authority, if you play it that way, yes, then I agree, we will indeed lose this country. This article, such as where you are creating a legal basis for something that the Constitutional Court has explicitly banned right now, is unacceptable and deeply saddens me that you are using such receptions that are far from being democratic in order to be legal in order to be constitutionally acceptable. Of course, this amendment is to be supported. There is no other way to maintain the reputation of the rule of law in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, my colleague Tina Hefferle, who listened in detail to my debate yesterday and also today. But the crises we have now have always led to wars in history. So much so that we don't have to worry about security in this situation. I don't panic. But see, Article 90 of the Constitution, as it is said, I am glad that we were present and voted in favour of preventing, you remember, you were not yet in Parliament, but remember that there were blockades. There's been a lot of blockades because of the various referendums. Article 90 of the Constitution, we agree that the Constitution must be fully respected. Absolutely. I support you. But here we are now focused on paragraphs 34 and 90, of course also paragraphs 1 and 2 and so on. But this article when we talk about referendums, then we are looking at article 90, which says that the referendum is not allowed to discuss laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Since 2013, ask the President of the Republic of Slovenia for a negative assessment of the defence capabilities of the Slovenian Army. I appreciate your opinion. I hope you're mine, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Once again, I refer to all those who discuss sticking to the subject, Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Other things, I don't know, can be subject to other treatments if you file them. It does not make sense, however, that we are restoring and listening to things that do not have any connection to the subject matter. The next one has the word Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Both secretaries of state, colleagues and colleagues! And I think we need to simplify this a little bit. We don't need some big words, we don't need to talk about constitutional lawyers and so on. In this National Assembly, I am aware that a democratic majority has some majority. We are this moment in the opposition, and it is our job to try with the amendments, with the laws, to correct what you do in my opinion and in our own way. Nothing will help us to invoke the Constitution, my respectable friend Jože, if we do not follow the basic laws and rules, procedures and rules of procedure. And here's where you made a mistake. The legitimate Ministry of Defense wants to purchase equipment for soldiers. I respect that, and I think it's okay. However, in these times it is necessary to let ourselves in reality. I don't know, this moment, even though money, as you all say, is cheap, even though they're giving us different agencies good grades, we're still in debt, and someone's gonna have to pay for it. We don't know what the money's gonna be for. It is therefore necessary to assess the priority of this country in this real and difficult time. In my opinion, although I have absolute respect for the military, unlike those who are more on the left-hand side, this moment is not the main issue of spending money on the military. Of course, what is necessary is to be defined, but we cannot spend this moment in six years, not next year, to understand each other. And what have we done now? ZIPRS, which should be, but it is not long since we have understood, the technical law, and all governments have so far taken on an article to solve some of the things that have failed with legislation or with rebalans or with a budget to get into a document, and then we resolve it to ZIPRS. That's why we have problems like that. But with what you've done now, I think you've really gone overboard. I'll tell you why. Key facts. The fact is that we have the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the Constitutional Court, as Tina Heferle also said. He's being held there. And now you want to go through zipRS – but you can, Jože, speak to a double doctor, I don't know what, but I don't know if a double doctor, or a constitutional lawyer, or a normal lawyer, says that it's good, what we do. You want to use ZIPRS, no matter what the Constitutional Court finds out, to spend that money on the military. I think this is absolutely wrong. That is why, unlike other parties in this House, we have written an amendment, which we will then discuss, a postponement amendment, to wait for what the Constitutional Court will say. That seems perfectly normal to me. The other thing is now that we are talking about these accountants, I hope you all know how difficult it is for accountants in Slovenia to do this moment, where they have to deal with various reports, advice and so on in the day-to-day legislative changes, and they have asked that they need a little more time to keep all the documents of entrepreneurs who have problems going. Now you've put this in ZIPRS because I think you're well-intentioned. We also propose here that this amendment should not only be extended by one month, but be extended by three months. If we're going to do this today, if you're going to overrun what we're going to do with this majority, then we're in real trouble. I've been hearing about the White Paper from the Secretary of State. I'll sign it. But all the experts, including in the defence department everywhere, the White Paper 2018 or the White Paper 2021, 2022 is the same, but I don't know if the countries will be able to afford it. That's all I'm afraid of. As far as I'm concerned, you're making a serious mistake with this zipRS. In any case, we will not support this ZIPS if you go with this majority. I hope that our amendments, which partially resolve the matter, will be supported. But if that's not the case, you know this law is going to go to the Constitutional Court. And I'm not predicting that we understand each other, but one will. And then what do we have? I think it's very good that we take some air, that we may admit a mistake, that the government has made a mistake in this ZIPRS in the way you want it, and that we should do what is right. But the best thing to do, my dears, is to make a transparent budget balance instead of ZIPRS. That would be the right thing to do, that would be clean. But most people in the National Assembly are getting smaller every minute, and then in the last few minutes, you have to do a circuit like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Look, guys, I'm warning you again, let's stick to the agenda, don't do things and don't talk about things that aren't on the agenda. You are talking about the amendment to Article 2 and Article 2. It's dark, not everything else. However, if you want political debates, you will file, I don't know, and another interpolation will re-constitutional charges or anything and you will open up these other things there. The Secretary of State, Uroš Lampret, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. Just let me explain. Maybe I was misunderstood. The Ministry of Defence has only once undertaken the creation of a white book. This is kind of a new instrument in Slovenia. We know resolutions, other programmes that are part of the hierarchy of documents. After all, the White Paper was very ambitious, but it became only a document of the Ministry of Defence. What I was about to say is that the conclusions of these documents are repeated. As regards the rationality of the use of these investment funds, this is the case. In this crisis, in this manna of 13, 10 years of investment, the portfolio has identified, as such, approximately €3.2 billion of investment needed to implement those decisions adopted by the National Assembly. We have made a plan out of this, which, according to our assessment, is a rational investment plan in the coming years. But today we're talking about another thing. Today we are talking about whether the Ministry of Defence will rationally use the funds that we are looking at in the next two years. And we guarantee that if we are not able to buy the funds that we have prioritized as equipment of the Slovenian Army, we will not be able to use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Christina Stebly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I would only respond that much because several times this deferred reporting of accounting services has been exposed. The fact is, as I already said on the Committee on Finance, that the situation is still quite different this year than it was last year. Last year everything stopped in mid-March, the situation was completely unpredictable, the accounting services were just before the end of the final stage of the preparation of these reports, and there was no real way of knowing when it would relax and how it would relax. During the year, we may have been able to adjust a little, or we may have calculated how these situations would turn out. As far as I know, no decree has prohibited the operation of these accounting services, and the nature of the work is such that they can work from home or in safe conditions. However, I would like to say that, although the percentage varies slightly depending on the measures, around 30% of the average of the accounting services benefited from a variety of measures, from waiting for work, to returning contributions, because they did not work, to a reduced worker, to a monthly basic income, so that there may not be a whole reason only for the amount of work for which there is no mistake, I agree that there was much more to it than in the past years, but on the other hand, there were a lot of accounting services and also other companies that do not want to do so, and otherwise the business reports will be submitted by 31 March, because they have other things to do, and they have asked us not to do so. I might only comment so much, now with this amendment has come an extension of one month and, given the situation, I estimate that this is quite a deadline. According to the data we also have from Apes, which shows that quite a number of reports have already been submitted in mid-March. A large majority, so to speak, not much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The last one in this circle gets the word Janez Muskrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice to meet you all! I would, however, remind or tell the opponents of the Slovenian Army that the Slovenian Army is not a spoiled lady, and her father has increased her scholarship and will now fly with bags to Emporium and will shop. The Slovenian army is one of the foundations of the Slovenian state. We have been undermining this foundation for years and years as human resources to which this Article refers, as well as financial equipment. As far as the law is concerned, which is now under review at the Constitutional Court. It is perfectly understandable to me that the Constitutional Court could not have done anything other than to hold the case and examine it. However, we must be aware that, as far as the referendum that we have skipped under the Constitution is concerned, the referendum can also see that the people are also confirmed by the law, which then turns out to be constitutionally disputed. We are now talking about, we are talking about bills for the next two years, which are adopted and which under this law allow certain protection, in particular certain stability and the re-establishment of the system in the Slovenian Army or the lifting of the foundations. We know that a human resources solution can't be arranged overnight. And this is also the subject of this article. Therefore, on the basis of the safety of two years, the Slovenian Army will be able to improve this personnel plan. On the basis of the major purchases that are necessary, the Slovenian Army will be able to start considering certain purchases. Why do we need a plane? You all know, the state aircraft, which was so opposed to him at the time, has saved a lot of lives to date, and we're also using it to transport other things. However, when the Slovenian Army has such an aircraft for even more difficult transports, I firmly believe it will be able to help Slovenia even more. You also know how the problem with the transport of vaccines was when we needed certain chambers and so on. Helicopter's exactly the same. Now we save, when necessary, with the police all that is private, only to save those who need help. The Slovenian army needs funds, but it needs stability in particular. This government has set itself as its main goal not to pull any of the stones from this foundation of Slovenia out, but to begin the immediate rehabilitation of this foundation. All measures are being taken to do so. Just let me have a sentence on the final reports. Some of you are talking about a hostage. Not at all. The government or the whole country, where were we somehow in February? Yeah, we were all hoping to get out of the epidemic. That is why the country has also insisted that we come to the old tracks as soon as possible in all areas, especially in the economy, where, thank God, we have managed to drive close to what we should. We're very close to what we wanted. Therefore, it could have been a false attempt at extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly if you wanted to save accountants in January or December of last year. I myself have tried, and I have warned the government, and I am glad that this solution has come up, as it is now available. I'm just sorry that she didn't show up in the first set on Tuesday, because we know there's going to be some legal void now, so there's no time to move on, because we know 8 days and so on, it's not an intervention law. So things are being resolved and, above all, stability in the country is ensured. I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court will see the law currently detained as an important law. I can, of course, be sure that any additional matters will be necessary, but we know what the main purpose of the law is, the stability of the Slovenian Army not only for two years, not only 7 years, 10 years and more or 20 years. We know that 20 years pass quickly, but much damage can be done or much good can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since I see there is still an interest in the debate, we will initiate the procedure. Please sign up. First he gets the word "Andre Zabret." Check it out. Then he's the next mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, welcome! If anyone wants to talk today about investing in the Slovenian Army or not, it is simply a lie. Don't fool people, please! We are today discussing whether or not the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. We are not talking today about investments in the Slovenian Army, we are talking about the decisions of the Constitutional Court that the current government, which I think is extremely weak, and the current coalition that supports it, wants to overrun. That this is so, Your Honor and Your Honor, look what's in my hands. This is the report of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to which you like to refer when you see that it is in your best interests. But if it isn't, you treat her the worst way you can. Respected and respected! On the seven pages of the Legislative and Legal Service proves why what you are about to do is unconstitutional. Since you may not have read all of this and I will now appeal to your conscience and understanding, I will read two or three paragraphs. “Until the Constitutional Court decides on a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army, in violation of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service shall state the reasons why the amendment of Article 30 of the ZIPRS” which we are discussing today is“, in the proposed form in breach of the Constitution”. Then we come to the third paragraph on the third page, “the situation in this matter is specific at this point. The Investment Act is suspended. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 5, of Article 21a for a violation of Article 90, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The proposed amendment would have the same effects as the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army." Then a little further: "Adoption of the proposed amendment to Article 30 of the ZIPRS would constitute the legal basis for accepting the obligation to invest in the Slovenian Armed Forces in the burden of the budget of the coming years, thereby legalising the main objective of the specific law before the adoption of the final decision of the Constitutional Court on the violation of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. As a result, it would also constitute a lack of respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court whereby the specific law is provisionally detained.” The second paragraph on the fifth page: »On the basis of this Law-Legal Service estimates that, at the time of the constitutional review of the Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army and when its implementation is delayed, it is not constitutionally permissible to adopt the same arrangements in the ZIPRS. This could be contrary to Articles 1, 2, 3, 44 and 90 of the Constitution’. You could keep reading, it says almost seven pages. I just want to argue to you, respectable and respected, why we are not talking today, whether we are for the Slovenian Army or not, by the way, I am the one who supported the amendment of the Defence Act, so that we have a better position of soldiers and soldiers. I am also aware of the need to provide the Slovenian Army. We are talking today only about your proposal for a law to overrule the current decision of the Constitutional Court, which Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service proves almost seven sides that it is unconstitutional. The Social Democrats have offered you a solution. And this solution is – I say this now because it relates to this, but then it is to Article 5, the new Article 5th, that until the Constitutional Court finds out that it is in conformity with the Constitution, it restricts government powers in the purchase of weapons. There's no other solution. Today, we are faced with the question of whether the government or coalition will gather enough votes to vote on something that is highly likely to be contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. Although we are living at a time when instability is too great, respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court is also fundamental to democratic regulation. This can't just happen on some virtual level. We stand for the Constitution, we stand for democracy, but democracy and democratic values are defended by every concrete act of our own every day. That's why I'm asking you, respectable and respected, two of you. Please take your time and read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. And please, think back, all together, with me, with this side of Parliament, let us dismiss political overtures and just ask ourselves whether the protection of the Slovenian Constitution is so important that we are willing to listen to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. My big wish is to do so. But if we had done so unanimously, we would have shown a better way into our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Again, I would like to point out that those of you who are registered to the floor are on the agenda. The Rules of Procedure of the second sentence of Article 75, paragraph 2, provide that the speaker may only speak on a matter on the agenda. At this time, Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 are on the agenda. The general debate was held on the Committee, as far as it was concerned, the views of the parliamentary groups were expressed. Let us now concentrate on the content of the article and the amendment. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. We do not really talk about investments in the Slovenian Army, as the government or coalition side repeatedly repeats. These statements could be taken at least roughly seriously, if possible, for example, for the purchase of military technology, which is also civilly useful and actually serves citizens and citizens and not only to sponsor the profits of foreign military complexes from the Slovenian budget. If we talk about buying helicopters for the purpose of using mountain rescue or providing remote areas cut off by earth’s reptiles — we know that natural disasters will increase in climate disaster situations. Or if we were to talk about RKBO, we have a nuclear power plant in Krske, if we were to develop mining engineering units and so on. This is still something that you can also do within the context of the relationship Then you do, but at the same time it is not about building an expeditionary corps somewhere abroad, 10,000 kilometers away from the borders of our country, but it is about the capacity that is suitable for working in Slovenia and are suitable for operating even in peacetime, in people in this country a useful way. What does the government of John Janša do? For 400 million euros he buys armored men who can't even drive across most Slovenian forest roads because they're too wide and too heavy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Comrade Kordish, please return to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	That's the content, the key point. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	No, I'm sorry. The contents of the amendment are human resources plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	the content of the Budget Implementation Act. [[…]] I'm on it. Besides, you're buying helicopters, unfortunately not those that are really suitable for mountain rescue, but heavy helicopters for the purpose of Nate's special forces. After all, a transport aircraft is not for much civilian use as we would like to imagine. Let's just look at past statistics. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Mr. Kordish, I suggest you return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	It's for providing troops on a mission. [[…]] Now there is a response to a few previous discussions. To begin with, by New Slovenia, we have heard the inspiration and reference to some authority outside the National Assembly, in particular to a double doctor, Mr. Jaklič. I say "double doctor" with a touch of irony, given that this is a very clear and publicly profiled SDS deputy in the Constitutional Court. But I'm wondering what's next. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Comrade Kordish, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	President, Mr Horvat from New Slovenia discussed this [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	If you continue, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	You didn't give Mr. Horvath of New Slovenia a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	I have warned everyone so far, including you who have discussed before, and now you are repeating your story and are even more far from the content and the article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. I'm responding to a preliminary debate. You did not stop the previous debate, you did not give the speaker a reminder, so I think this is a perfectly legitimate topic, given that we are discussing a constitutionally contentious law with constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	My friend Kordish, I've already told you all those measures like I told all the speakers in front of you, and you didn't respect them. I didn't interrupt you. But when you continue again when I give you my word, I will give you a measure if you continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	We are talking about a Constitutional Judge, a Constitutional Court, a law which, according to at least four points of the Constitution, is also considered by the Legislative and Legal Service to be constitutionally disputed by the content currently being dealt with in the Constitutional Court. President, you have absolutely no basis, not only to interfere with my word, but also to give me a minute. It says Left, 3 minutes 18 seconds, 17 seconds, not Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Mr. Kodesh, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Now I'm gonna keep going. How can a constitutional judge comment on open cases? What about the appearance of impartiality? This is something that Mr Horvat opened in his debate. Whether the substantive part of this same issue after nine months of discussion is still open to government ladies and gentlemen to say who is threatening us militarily or other NATO Member States. And apparently they can't even present this to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is kind of the forerunner. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Mr. Kordish, I take your word. I take your word for it. You've received two warnings, I've warned you. Procedurally first of all, Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Mr Tanko, the chairman of this state session today, please, this is intended for you directly. When the coalition MPs discuss, allow them to spread the debate, but when we discuss it on this side, it is very opposition, and do not even allow it, because we are discussing a matter that is directly concerned, which is what my colleague Kordish is discussing earlier. But if you want, throw us all out of the National Assembly if you want to do that. But you have no constitutional right to be told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	First time. This was no procedural proposal. Another time. I also warned my colleague Horvath. I have generally warned everyone, including all other previous debaters, everything. The only one who spoke from the coalition among all the applicants was John Moskritch. He touched the content of the article and the amendment the most. You've all been talking about everything else. The procedural proposal is made by Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you. We are at the first amendment to this law and it is usually understood here that the debate is a little wider. In a specific case, my debate, which you have given me three reminders, presidents, is very much under the headings, we can talk about a broader debate. To this law, the Legislative and Legal Service has submitted a seven-party opinion which has torn it apart, as it is unconstitutional practically at all possible points. And I was talking about it, and I think it's perfectly justified, and you gave me three reminders and you finally turned off my microphone. You don't have a business base for that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	The content reference for your action is totally illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Comrade Kordish, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	You're abusing your position. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	No, it won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	to block the debate. [[…]] This is, to conclude, the last sentence, President, and this is a procedural proposal, because it is directly linked to the way you are leading the debate at this meeting, which is the content of procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	My colleague Kordish, everything related to the general debate in this law has happened and should have happened on the Committee on Finance if I am not mistaken. This, if you've done it there, you've absorbed this chapter. Take a look at the provisions of the Rules of Procedure as regards the handling of the urgent procedure. You had the position of the parliamentary group in this law, where you stated your position, and there is a debate from here on the table and on the amendment tabled and nothing else. Even anyone else in the presidency would probably react the same way, because there is no other way. It's just the nature of the rules of procedure. This is how the rules of procedure are drawn up and respect this. Procedurally, Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. See, so far, the practice has always been that Article 1 could also be discussed in a slightly broader way, and exactly the same has been done today. Until now. But it is true that when you disagree with the content, take the floor. It's been a practice obviously for the last few days, in recent months. But that says the most about you, not about us, but about you, and I think it is high time that we, as a democratic opposition, propose that the Vice-President of the National Assembly be replaced.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	You can do it at any time. That's one. Secondly, Mr Koprivc, it would be time for you to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. As far as parliamentary practice or practice is concerned so far, I probably have the most in this Chamber, so I know exactly how these things have been done in the past and I also know what the purpose of the Rules of Procedure is. Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	My procedural proposal is that, as presidents, allow me to conclude the debate, after all, I have an hour — how many? 2 minutes, 3 minutes something enough, even if I wanted to spread the debate and turn off the subject, so I can't, and that's also because with your intervention you reached out to me in the time I had intended to discuss it. [[…]] If you're so kind as to make this 2, 3 minutes to finish on the subject of ZIPRS and its constitutional suitability or not, that was great. In this way we can also complete this ping-ponging procedure and go back to the content professionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm not going to change my mind because I've directed you long enough to get to the content, but you're not. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? We'll start the application process. He's got the word "magic" first. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'll try to stick to this Article 5. Social Democrats are proposing a new Article 5a that somehow, I will say, preserve the rule of law and the rule of law. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in this law was quite clear that it was necessary to wait first for what the Constitutional Court would do with the Military Investment Act, so it is necessary to wait for their decision and only then can this law enter into force. Since the government wants to circumvent constitutional judgment by this law, this article is absolutely correct and the only one that can solve the problem, as ZIPRS should be a technical law, but unfortunately this proposal does not follow. Therefore, once again, the Social Democrats propose a new Article 5a to wait for the Constitutional Court to speak and decide on the military investment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. First, I would have responded to the Secretary of State's words when she said that the situation was different for accounting services than it was last year. I think she's not different, and I'll tell you why. In the last year, accountants are once again more burdened than last year or, as usual, mainly because they have eight PKPs, where in fact all these measures are completely confused and complicated. Let me read you just two statements from accountants who say: “We work 24 hours a day without any additions. Does the state really not realize that accounting services are an intermediate point through which the state budget is charged, because we are the ones who calculate taxpayers' tax liabilities?" Secondly: "Without our work, all the PKPs would have been brought to nothing, because we are the ones that we have put among the entrepreneurs." The accountants did not ask for any money or funds, but above all it was the biggest call to ask you to extend the deadline for reporting because they simply cannot because of all the overly complicated and pre-administrative measures. That was the main reason. Since January, they have already sent calls to the Government and asked “extremely” us. We also made an appeal to the Government in LMŠ, but we did not receive any reply, so we also called an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance on this subject some time ago. This happened last week at the Finance Committee, where you proposed an extension of the deadline for the 2020 balance sheet and tax accounts for one month, which we welcome and are pleased with. But there's still some bitter taste. If the government really meant to help the accountants, I think we could have done it in time without putting them into the same kind of trouble. To this day, they do not really know whether they will be able to issue a balance sheet one month later or not. In particular, from this point of view, because Levica is forecasting a referendum on ZIPRS and we do not really know what will happen. In the LMŠ, we will also decide what we will do in the light of these proposed amendments. However, we will certainly do everything, and I think the National Assembly here is responsible for doing everything we can to resolve this matter, as far as accounting services are concerned, because they have been promised that their deadline has been extended. That is why I also hope that this actually holds true. As far as the support of the amendments is concerned, we will still decide in the LMŠ whether it is support for the SD amendment, where it may also be relevant to wait for the Constitutional Court to decide what will be decided, or Left to delete the ZIPRS accountants and then submit an amendment on Monday and arrive at the same result. That is why I hope that we are all in charge here together to resolve this issue in the interest of accounting services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mag. Bojana Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I wanted to take another call, because I would like to take a call with Article 5a, which speaks, although my colleague has already said that we are extending the time period for the reporting to the accounting services for three months, because that is the only thing that we think is relevant. The crisis has done its job. Accounting services have much more work to do than they have done in the past. Although the Secretary of State has said that more than half of the reports have already been submitted on Ipes, it should be borne in mind that individual entities have not submitted reports in due time. For this reason, there are now large accounting services that work not only 12, 16, 18 hours even 20 hours a day and simply cannot prepare all these reports. Therefore, it seems extremely important that this deadline should be extended by three months. Of course, they can broadcast sooner if they can. But believe me, at the time of the PKPs, which must also take into account and submit reports, the only longer period of time is relevant so that they can somehow get these things through as much as possible. So if we put this in ZIPS, this is the fastest and most likely to be done, so it seems really important that we be heard or heard by accounting services. I believe that the situation is different from that of last month of March when we were essentially in total lockdown, but we can be aware that this year the situation is even worse than has already been said, eight PKPs, eight of these issues in the issuance of the various requirements resulting from this, causing an enormous burden on accounting services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Janez Moscrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief, I've already talked to this subject before, but now it's concrete. I think you all know or you obviously don't know how this broadcast reports at a normal time. We spend companies, we wasted that documentation for the last year there until 20 January, then the accountants dealt first with that past VAT and then they start somehow the first days in February with our final accounts. So they had, like, 50 days of normal time. This year, due to a few more of these changes, when the hospital had to account for the use of State aid in respect of pecapes, we extended this period to them for 30 days, which is perfectly reasonable. I also have an accountant's response to the fact that they're satisfied with it for 30 days. Given what date we are today, there is no time for transposition, since we will already make the legal void of 1, 2, 3 April before this law, which we will adopt today, will be in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5.b and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the Group of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5c and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left by 5 p.m. Anybody want to talk? Andrea Zabrett, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to for a little while. The financial situation in the state budget also depends on the well-prepared annual reports submitted by businesses. Therefore, it could be so much more responsible from the government to respond in a timely manner to the accountants and extend their deadline in January, where only the amendment of the CAP 7 could extend the deadline by one month or two months. We have also received responses from our accounting services to be generally satisfied with the one-month extension, but the biggest problem is that this is all the last moment. If I may turn to the numbers again. In the last report for March, the Fiscal Council said that the direct impact of cod measures on the state budget balance was 538 million in the first two months of the year. The main impact is on the expenditure side, namely 522 million. This represents already 70% with the budget of the projected cod expenditure for the entire year 2021, where 774 million is foreseen. So you've already burned everything you had planned for co-vid expenses in the first two months. These are very alarming numbers, so you also propose to transfer funds from the EU to ZIPRS, which means that you will simply have a chance to redistribute EU funds into cod costs. We've got a whole year ahead of us, and it's a really big problem with what's going on with these funds. It would practically be better if we brought to the National Assembly a rebalancing, but that we have the numbers in front of us, and we see where we are. This is also recalled by the Legal and Legislative Service, where it says "who will find out how justified the expectation that the measure will be co-financed by the EU" is. Because this could be an arbitrary assessment - I don't know who's going to judge it, but will you at the Ministry of Finance judge it or what? - This is also a matter of contradiction to the rule of law. We're talking about the rule of law here again. Yesterday we are and today we are talking about ZIPRS itself, that we have major problems here. So I'd like to bring this matter to your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Christina Stebly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Member of the Commission, I think we have already had a debate on this subject on the Committee on Finance. The reasonable expectation relates in particular to the recovery and resistance plan. You know that it was only in February that a regulation was adopted at EU level, which determined exactly what this plan should contain. Now they are going to say the final sawing of this document, which we must submit to the European Commission by the end of April. This means that we are at expert level with the European Commission all the time in coordination, which means that for certain things we can very rightly expect them to be financed from the recovery plan. At this point, we do not yet have a final decision because the European Commission is expected to confirm these plans there in June. Given that the eligible costs are all costs incurred since February of last year, I think that this is quite a reasonable expectation if a certain thing is coordinated with the Commission at expert level in order to be able to do so. In addition, anti-Korona packages have explicitly stated in a number of articles that either state budget funds or EU co-financing can be used to finance certain measures. Next thing. As early as last year, the European Commission had allowed certain transfers between the original confirmed purposes for the purposes of eliminating and mitigating the effects of covid. All of these are things that are so far away that we can now say with great certainty that they will be justified. Of course not at this point, and that's it. As for the reserve you mentioned, you know that this year's budget, speaking only of this year's budget, was adopted before three other anti-korona packages were adopted. There was a lot of talk back then about having too many reserves, and it turned out, as you yourself found, that we didn't have too much. In addition, in last year's year, we kept very transparent to the last account, to the last cent, reporting what we are doing with these transfers for covid measures. We have the same set in this year, according to individual anti-korona laws, according to individual articles, how many were realized. We have also answered the questions of the Members with these detailed tables, and whenever you want them, they can be added as these tables are updated daily. I don't think it's justified to worry about untransparent spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5d and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the Group of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors for a new Article 5th. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The basic reason for the preparation of the Proposal for amendments and the completion of the Employment, Self-employment and Work Act is the transposition of the Directive of the European Union into the national legal order, namely Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of the ou pair. This is a so-called recast directive replacing existing Council Directive 2004/114/EC of 13 December 2004 on the conditions for the admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of study, exchange of pupils, unpaid training or voluntary work and Council Directive 2005/71 of 12 October 2005 on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter for the purposes of scientific research. In this context, the new EU traineeship scheme should be highlighted by third-country nationals with appropriate education, higher or higher education. Other proposed changes and additions are partly editorial in nature or are addressing certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated either in the employment of foreigners on the Slovenian labour market or in the implementation of the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. Among these, it is important to point out the following changes and additions to the law, namely, with regard to the employment of foreigners directly from the unemployment register, due to the system's identified abuses in practice, that is, when employers have forgiven their workers after nine months and re-employed after three months. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that this practice of optimising costs by employers at a time when there is no season is unjustifiable and proposes a supplement to facilitate the employment of unemployed persons without checking the conditions of Article 17, paragraph 1, is only applicable to those undertakings which have not been forgiven for business reasons in the last four months prior to this employment. The possibility of withdrawing consent for employment, self-employment or work in the event of an extended period of time when a foreigner is not included in the social security scheme on the basis of his work is new, i.e. 6 months. Newly, some key violations of the law governing safety and health at the work of workers and violations of the provisions of the law governing the labour market in relation to illegal lending of labour are laid down among the reasons for the imposition of a foreign sanction, the prohibitions on the employment of foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Tadeja Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and Work of Foreigners, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of State participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was provided with material published on the websites of the National Assembly: a proposal for legislation, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, work, health care and disabled persons, amendments tabled and proposals for amendments to the Committee. The representative of the applicants briefly presented the draft law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled took account of their comments, with the exception of the comment to Article 2. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee. The Commission notes that the proposal for a law has also eliminated the long-standing problem of illegal labour lending to other users, which will be subject to new sanctions in the form of a foreign penalty by prohibiting the employment of such employers for a further two years from the legal capacity of the fine imposed in accordance with the Labour Market Regulation Act. The Commission was aware that the proposal for a law had been examined and coordinated within the Economic and Social Council, with most of the comments made by the social partners in the working groups supported and therefore supports the proposal. The debate, which took place mainly in Article 1 of the proposal for a law, stressed that the transposition of the directive also follows the objectives of the European Union, which aims to make it more attractive for third-country nationals wishing to carry out research work in the EU and their family members. The bill also seeks to improve and simplify the conditions for entry and residence of students coming to the Republic of Slovenia for study and education. Most of the debaters considered that the novel was well prepared and brought important reliefs and additions to the legislation in force. They shall issue temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of research and higher education and for studies and introduce new types of temporary residence permits for the purpose of seeking employment or self-employment for researchers who have completed research work in the Republic of Slovenia and others. A new type of uniform residence and work permit is also being introduced for the purpose of carrying out the traineeship. Some discussers, however, felt that the novel is making the situation of foreigners worse, and the government thus shows indifference to the fates of workers working here and subject to second-rate treatment. In their view, there is a huge breach in this area and workers are left to illegal practices and are not protected. Articles 4 and 10 were highlighted. In addition, it was pointed out that Article 10 is the most problematic part of the novel as it introduces the suspension of rights for workers who were not included in social security. This means that an employee may lose his right to stay because the employer will be in breach of the legislation. Several questions were raised, including temporary dismissals, why sanctions are not automatic, changes in the withdrawal of consent, the work of au pair babysitters and others. The amendment of the Committee was proposed by the Left Group by Article 10 with a proposal to delete an article which was not adopted by the Committee. On all the issues, the Ministry's representative provided comprehensive clarifications and stressed that the changes and additions were prepared on the basis of warnings from the practice to which both trade unions and inspection services were alerted, as well as the perceptions of system abuse by the Employment Service. The Committee adopted the amendments and its amendments tabled. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Respected and respected! The proposer of the amendment to the Employment, Self-employment and Work Act proposes amendments and additions to existing legislation aimed at transposing the European Directive governing the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship or voluntary work. The transposition of the Directive introduces a new regime for the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of research and higher education, the issue of temporary residence for study purposes and the introduction of a new type of temporary residence permit for the purpose of seeking employment for researchers who have completed research work, or for students who are in the final stages of the higher education institution. A new type of uniform residence and work permit shall also be introduced for the purpose of carrying out the traineeship. In addition, the proposer also proposes various amendments to the current applicable law based on experience from practice in connection with the employment of foreigners and the regulation of a uniform residence and work permit in the Republic of Slovenia. For example, solutions are proposed in the area of prevention of illegal labour lending to other employers, black work in foreign countries and compliance with the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which will facilitate the inspection of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. The need for suitable legal solutions in these areas has been repeatedly pointed out by the Labour Inspectorate in its regular annual reports. Your Honor! We will not oppose the proposed amendment to the law because we believe it brings together the relevant legal solutions that have proved necessary in practice in the control of the employment of foreigners and in the issuance of a uniform permit for work and residence in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, we estimate that the amendment correctly brings solutions to the European Directive into Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Hello! The worker and the worker are the ones who create. A democratic society understands and creates the conditions for a worker and a worker of the welfare of the development of general prosperity to benefit from each other when they create, contribute to the community. If something breaks down in the work process, it is the community that helps workers and workers, in other words, civilised society and the social state. The Government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners of this simple fact unfortunately does not understand. He places himself, that is, the country, in a position of decision-maker, to which he will be, after he himself has contributed to social well-being, solidarity and to which he will not. The factor in the decision is the non-Slovenian passport of the employee. The government in the contested section of the law provides for a new withdrawal of consent for employment, self-employment or work in the current uniform residence and work permit if the worker has not been included in the social insurance system for more than 6 months. This introduces a problematic mechanism for early termination of uniform work and residence permits and thus the early abolition of the right to stay in Slovenia at all for third-country nationals. Only the fact that an employee is not involved in social insurance should not be a reason to deprive him of the only possibility of being included in the insurance. The reasons why some workers are not involved in social insurance may vary. They may not have been included in the social security scheme by the employer or have not been paid by the employer. Even if the worker is not included in the social insurance by fault of the employer, this period of non-inclusion will nevertheless be counted within the proposed six-month period. The worker will thus pay for the employer’s sins by expelling him. Involvement in social security may also be due to the fact that the worker was entitled to a financial compensation for unemployment or that he was not entitled at all and was therefore excluded from social insurance on the date of dismissal by the employer. In a few months, a foreign worker may find a new employer, but due to the long procedures related to the regulation of a single permit, which is a condition for inclusion in social security, it may take some time to get legally employed. The expulsion of foreign workers who are trying to find a job and arrange all the necessary papers while not receiving any assistance from the country, even though they have paid contributions and taxes in Slovenia, is a socially unjust measure. The government would suspend foreign workers’ work and residence permits prematurely, instead of creating conditions for these workers to find a new job or work faster and easier to get a permit when they already have an employer. There will be cases where the workers will have an employer and the papers will not be due to slow procedures. The government's measure of expulsion of foreign workers will also be carried out once foreign workers have found work, but they will be waiting for work and residence permits. Therefore, there is no need to revoke their authorisations prematurely. Since it is no longer possible to delete the disputed article with the amendments from the proposal for a law, it is therefore proposed that the application of the measure be suspended in 2025. This will allow the contested provision to be deleted from the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act in the meantime. That is the purpose of our amendment tabled today. In recent months, the government of Janez Janša has sent in several laws amending the conditions for the arrival and residence of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. The common feature of all these proposals is the deterioration of the conditions for the stay and work of the alien and his family. In Levica we strongly oppose the systematic deterioration of working conditions and the residence of foreign workers in Slovenia and the resulting deterioration of their social situation. The government of Janez Janša, through the systematic expulsion of foreigners and their families, is pursuing its hateful rhetoric toward foreigners, which we must resist at all levels of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Thank you again for saying so, and thank you very much. The new law that we are considering is, in particular, transposing a directive of the European Union into our legislation. It will make Slovenia more attractive to researchers, researchers and their family members. The proposal for the amendment simplifies the conditions for entry and residence of students coming to Slovenia for study and education and eliminates the shortcomings that have been shown in the employment of foreigners on the Slovenian market. A new type of uniform residence and work permit is introduced, namely a single licence for the exercise of traineeships. This shall be issued on the basis of the consent of the Slovenian Employment Institute to verify that a foreigner has an agreement on the exercise of an apprenticeship with a legal or natural person hosting a trainee to verify the evidence of the level of higher education or higher education obtained within two years of the date of application or the proof of admission to a study enabling him to obtain a higher education or higher education, the appropriate payment of the tax deduction accounts for income from the employment relationship and the tax debt of the host entity and the traineeship programme. The first single licence shall be issued for the duration of the traineeship or for a maximum period of one year. According to the proposal, the replacement of a job with the same employer, the replacement of an employer or the conclusion of a new contract of civil law will be possible only on the basis of a new single permit issued on the basis of a new agreement of the Slovenian Employment Institute. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners eliminates the shortcomings of the law which have proved to be in practice because of the system's abuses, that the employer in particular in the construction of workers should be dismissed when there is no season, and that after the end of receiving the remuneration to which the worker is entitled, he should be re-employed. Therefore, a new condition is introduced, facilitating employment from the unemployment register without checking the conditions is only applicable to those undertakings which have not been forgiven for business reasons in the last four months prior to this employment. In addition, the proposal lays down a lateral penalty in addition to a fine for employers who illegally travel their workers to another employer without appropriate permission. Such employers will be able to prohibit the employment of foreigners for two years. In order to protect the safety and health of foreign workers, a new ban on the employment of foreigners in the event of legal infringements of the Law on Safety and Health at Work, for example, where the employer does not provide adequate protective equipment for workers. As we know, even in Slovenia there is a greater increase in unemployment in the winter season, which is very uncertain for the worker, as he is three months without employment, without safety. We are confident that no employer will forgive a good worker and that the employer must be able to forgive a bad worker. We want to create labour legislation that will give employers more room for manoeuvre in case of dissatisfaction with the worker, but at the same time offers workers a high level of safety. The strong economy means more resources and less social problems. We support European standards for the protection of workers' rights and this amendment transposes the European Directive into Slovenian legislation. Workers must receive a fair pay for their work, and their employment must provide them with an adequate level of security and stability. This novel regulates this well, so we will support it in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners is to facilitate the employment of foreigners who have studied or performed research tasks in Slovenia. It also corrects some shortcomings in the employment of other foreigners. With the adoption of the legal novelty, Slovenia will transpose into its national legislation the recast European Directive 2016 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects. On the basis of the commitments set out in that Directive, the amendment provides for the regulation of new types of uniform residence and work permits. This new provision is made for the granting of a temporary residence permit for the purpose of finding a job and self-employment of a researcher who completed research work in Slovenia and a student who completed studies at the higher education institute in Slovenia. At the same time, the granting of a temporary residence permit for the purpose of carrying out voluntary work or traineeships shall also be governed. The bill also introduces the elimination of certain shortcomings that have been proven in practice in the implementation of the law. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn attention to the systemic derogation from the original purpose of this provision, as some employers, in particular in the area of construction, at a time when there is no work, have begun to forgive workers who have the right to financial compensation for the period of unemployment. However, following the expiry of the refund, the same employers hired them back without checking the conditions. The applicant considers that such a practice is unjustified and therefore it will be only for those companies which did not forgive for business reasons within four months of the employment of the unemployed without checking the conditions. The possibility of withdrawing the consent for employment, self-employment or working for a valid uniform residence and work permit or for a written authorisation in the event of an extended period of time is also new. In the parliamentary group, we partly agree with the proposaler that inclusion in the social security system means that foreigners do not pursue their purpose of living because they are not formally employed, which can lead to black work. Nevertheless, we need to attach a fact that has also been exposed to the parental committee in the consideration of this proposal that there may be more reasons for non-involvement in social security. One of the most obvious and probable is the employer's payment non-discipline or the delay in authorisation and consent procedures. In both cases, the worker is not to blame for the situation of non-inclusion in the insurance system, so it is unfair to punish the worker by withdrawing consent from our assessment. If I snore. Slovenia, with a proposal for a new law ahead of us, is primarily following the objective of making the EU attractive to third-country nationals who want to do research work while at the same time seeking to improve and simplify the conditions for entry and residence of those who come to Slovenia to study and educate. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that, at its 27th regular session, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, has nevertheless adopted a new Law on Employment, Self-employment and the work of foreigners, the content of which has been in place for quite some time. Let me remind you that the content of the proposals is largely the same as that of the previous coalition, which was also part of the DeSUS Group. I am also very pleased that the law has been sent to intersectoral coordination and that social dialogue has been carried out both during the previous and current governments. During the long-term process of adopting this amendment, comments and proposals were received from the Ministry of Labour, the family, the social affairs, which were carefully examined by the Ministry and some minor amendments were adopted and rejected by the majority in a reasoned manner. The main reason for preparing the amendment is the transposition of Directive 2016/801 and this is a so-called recast directive replacing the existing Directives. This involves the transfer of rules on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of babysitters into national law. Furthermore, the proposed amendment addresses some of the shortcomings that have emerged in practice, which we agree with in the Desus Group. In line with the warnings of the Employment Institute and the Labour Inspectorate, the law is improved in the following cases. The employment of foreigners is subject to new rules directly from the register of unemployed persons, the possibility of withdrawing consent for employment, self-employment or work to a valid uniform residence permit, work or written approval in the event that the institution finds that a foreigner has not been included in the social security scheme for more than 6 months has been eliminated for a longer period of time by the problem of illegal employment of other users, which can be re-sanctioned in the form of a foreign penalty, that is to say, by banning the employment of foreigners to such employers for a further two years. In order to protect the safety and health of migrant workers, a new ban on the employment of foreigners in the event of certain legal violations of the Law on Safety and Health at Work is laid down. In the Desus Group, we believe that the novels are well prepared and bring important reliefs and additions to existing legislation, but are certainly prepared to protect workers. In the light of the amendments adopted, the amended bill is a good one, so we will unanimously support it in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	Have a good day to all present here in the hall! From the European Union again comes a multiculturally colored directive that follows a step by step the global national grading plan. In Brussels, of course, we would like to make our Slovenia more attractive for foreigners coming from third countries. There are also new rules on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes and educational projects and the work of babysitters. It's like we don't have enough attractiveness for foreigners because of international tactics. What about our Slovenian students, researchers and trainees? Is it not necessary to make Slovenia attractive to them, but when our capable frame likes to flee abroad? Now we will further try to improve and simplify the conditions for the entry and residence of foreigners as well as their families. There's nothing wrong with being able, I stress, capable aliens come to us and then leave. However, it is not that we try long and hard to make the uncontrolled arrivals of foreigners as much as possible, while we have so many unemployed Slovenians, and the quality of our staff, as we have already said, is going abroad. We have already received a highly qualified, talented and educated doctor, a Syrian barber, whom our unemployed Slovenian hairdressers certainly do not reach to their knees. For the development and progress of our country, capable people from abroad would certainly be included in the social security system and offered citizenship. If the potential staff of foreign students, researchers and trainees for Slovenia were good, the employer would also be happy to hire such a person and, consequently, this person would contribute to the well-being of our country. A quality profile from abroad would be in everyone's interest to enable them to contribute to Slovenia's well-being. I say, a quality cadre that would contribute, but not that they will now just make it easier and easier to enter a variety of arrivals. We already have enough programmes in the European Union to promote student mobility within the European Union, such as Erasmus and Erasmus+. Smart, motivated and talented Slovenian students are going abroad, while at the same time we are trying to make Slovenia more attractive for foreign students. In addition to being contrary to sound logic, it also sounds like a long-term multicultural plan for destabilizing national countries, which we cannot possibly agree to in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. By amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-employment and Work of Foreigners, in accordance with the principle of “all in one place”, the recast Directive of the European Union 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of the Ombudsman shall be transposed into the internal legal order in accordance with the principle of “all in one place”. This is a so-called recast directive replacing Council Directive 2004/14/EC of 13 December 2004 and Council Directive 2005/71/EC of 12 October 2005 on a specific procedure for granting access to third-country nationals for scientific research purposes. The main solutions to the amendments to the bill are: the novelty of the uniform residence and work permits and temporary residence permits, the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of seeking employment and self-employment for a researcher who completed research work in the Republic of Slovenia, and of a student who completed studies at a higher education institution in the Republic of Slovenia, the granting of a temporary residence permit for the purpose of carrying out volunteer work, the new type of single residence and work permit, the issuing of a single leave for the exercise of traineeships. The aims of the law are: Slovenia wants to become more attractive to third-country nationals who want to carry out research work in Slovenia and their family members. The aim is to improve and simplify the conditions for entry and residence of students coming to the Republic of Slovenia for education. Then there are changes and additions that are partly editorial in nature. They are intended to remedy certain shortcomings which have been shown in the employment of foreigners in the Slovenian labour market and also in the implementation of the law. These include the following changes and additions: a change in employment of foreigners directly from the unemployment record due to the system's identified abuses and the gain of relief for new employment in practice. It happened that after nine months of the worker’s work, the employers fired the worker and again again after three months. Thus, employers who, for example, cannot deliver services in winter have optimised costs, which was unjustified. It is therefore proposed that a supplement be proposed to facilitate the recruitment of unemployed persons without checking the conditions laid down in Article 17, paragraph 1, only for those undertakings which have not been dismissed for business reasons in the last four months prior to such employment. The European Union is a regulated community and we are aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we want to make order in both the labour market and foreign residences, as is the case in the European Union. More solutions to this amendment of the law follow the proposals and experience of the Slovenian Institute for Employment, Proposals and Experiences of the Slovenian Inspectorate for Work, and it also has a clear objective to ensure that Slovenian employers who actually pay fairly are fairly employed and do not seek loopholes in the laws, ensure fair and supervised use of credits at the expense of public funds for the employment of unemployed persons registered at the Slovenian Institute for Employment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support amendments and additions to the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! A key objective of the novel Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners is the transposition of the European Directive, with which our country would also pursue the goal of becoming more attractive to those third-country nationals who would like to carry out research work in the European Union, as well as their family members. In addition, the novel is intended to simplify and improve the conditions for entry and residence of foreign students. There are new rules on the types of uniform residence and work permits and temporary residence permits, namely the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of seeking employment and self-employment for researchers who have completed research work in our country and for students who have completed studies in our country. In addition, the granting of a temporary residence permit for the purpose of carrying out voluntary work and a new type of uniform residence permit and work for the purpose of traineeships is also provided for. Novela also addresses some of the problems that have arisen in practice. This purpose, inter alia, lays down the prohibition of employment for employers who will be legally found to be employed by foreign workers for illegal lending to other users. Furthermore, a ban on the employment of foreign workers in the event of certain legal infringements of the Law on Safety and Health at Work is laid down. The latter is important because there is a huge infringement in this area, which is also pointed out by the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate. Many employers do not provide basic and key conditions for the safety and health of foreign workers. We welcome the changes mentioned in the Act in the Marjan Sarca Group, because we believe that special attention must be paid to the protection of foreign workers, both in preventing the exploitation of foreign labour by some employers and in ensuring safety and health at work. However, the law also provides a questionable provision for foreign workers, for whom the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia has found that they have not been included in the social security scheme on the basis of work or self-employment for more than six months, to withdraw their consent to employment, self-employment or work for a valid single permit. While the government considers that this should be due to perceived practices where foreign workers do not pursue their purpose of living because they are not formally employed or self-employed. This, however, should mean that they do not have their own income for survival or do black work. In practice, however, unpaid contributions do not necessarily mean work in black or the fact that the worker does not have the means to survive. It may not have been paid by the employer or by the employee of the selected employer, but due to lengthy procedures he is not yet formally employed and due to the new provision, he would have been suspended prematurely. Such a measure does not seem appropriate to us in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we therefore support the supplement by which the implementation of that measure is suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades and colleagues, good day again! In my debate, I would like to discuss some of the general guidelines of the proposal on the table and the amendment proposed by the Left Group in order to eliminate or at least soften some of the inadmissibility of government policies that are reflected also through this proposal. In the summary, the proposal, which is on the table, removes the uniform residence permit for a foreign worker if this six-month period has not been included in social security. If a foreigner in Slovenia has not had paid contributions for six months, he must go, according to his household. In addition to one, I say clearly, the idejnopolitical obvious pursuits against foreigners, against all that is foreign, against the growing nationalism and fragmanticism or distribution in government policy, to which I am very critical in this work, there are two problems that need to be highlighted and are of a significantly more technical nature or, to say the least, do not drink water in the reality itself. First of all, what's the difference between a foreign worker on one side and a domestic worker on the other, I say. A foreign worker in Slovenia contributes to his work, contributes to time, contributes to his hands or head, knowledge, skills, education, and contributes to the creation of some social well-being. Here he also contributes to the state treasury, pays taxes, buys in Slovenian shops, buys in Slovenian farmers. In short, live, work and contribute to the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, a domestic worker who contributes his hands to Slovenian prosperity, contributes his head, contributes his skills, his education, contributes his knowledge, buys in Slovenian shops, buys from Slovenian farmers, pays taxes, therefore contributes to all ways in which a worker, a citizen can contribute. The question that arises: what is the place of one and the other in society, what is their difference? What's the difference between these two workers? She's not here. There's no difference. A significantly greater difference than they are, therefore, is the difference between them and the system that stands over them and exploits their work, exploits their hands, heads, knowledge and so on. But that this system is maintained, and it is crucial that this labor front is also divided and Fragmented, and I see the subtitle of this proposal, which in other words says that one is worth living for, that they enjoy the prosperity they create themselves, in the results of the joint work, and the other does not. The difference is again, it's just a passport. And I also see this as a general subtitle of this proposal. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues, which is of a very technical nature, which speaks of the abolition of a uniform residence permit for a foreign worker if this 6-month period was not included in social security, or the expulsion of a foreign worker from the country, if no contributions were paid for 6 months, is the following, very technical. There's a thousand reasons why a foreign worker doesn't have paid contributions. The finger does not point to him as it does not point to a domestic worker if he does not have paid contributions, but it is most often due to the worker’s lack of paid contributions — who? He's an employer. Already on the map of violations of labour law in domestic workers, we have very long lists of employers who, because of their incompetence or their greed or because of what, misunderstandings of labour law, workers, for the first time, do not evaluate their work fairly, secondly, do not take care of their health, social, pension security. It is only in the case of foreign workers that we know that they may find themselves more difficult to maneuver in a foreign environment, in Slovenia, through this map of labour law. And what we see here is the punishment of an alien worker by banishment for the sins of his employer, something that is simply not fair or can't be done by a worker for sins committed by someone else. If the worker does not have paid contributions, it may be the reason, for example, that he also worked in Slovenia and lost his job. Or if the story goes on if it does not qualify as a financial compensation for unemployment — watch out! — what can happen in cases, and this is often the case, which is reported and witnessed by representatives of trade unions and labour counsellors, which is one of the things that happens is that the worker is not entitled to a financial compensation for unemployment, is that the employer cheats with the worker, in the notes, “agreemental forgiveness contract”, whatever the technical term is. And then the worker is again without everything, without any contributions paid, but someone else is to blame, and he is to run for six months without contributions, which will run out at one point and be able to be expelled again. Similarly, the right to a financial compensation has expired and so on. Scenarios or the reasons why it can come to this is a thousand, and neither one of them is able to point the finger at the worker. But there's another absurd scenario here. Let's say that we have a foreign worker who is in Slovenia, has all the papers, a uniform residence permit and partly arranged, loses his job, is looking for a job, is successful, finds a job, arranges everything he needs, or doesn't arrange for himself, regulates papers, but state bureaucracy is so painful, so long-term, this bike grinds and grinds and grinds so long that these 6 months run away. And again for the sin of someone else, that is, the state bureaucrat, the worker himself. Those six months go by, and he has to leave. These procedures are too slow. It's a thing that's been pointed out by both the unions and the Labor Advisory. And now I am here expressing my concern or my fear that it is again a systematic establishment of some nationalist ideas even within the labour law, and I am concerned that the government will deliberately prolong these procedures, so that they will optimally last for six months and one day, that even technically a man, a foreigner, will not be able to handle this matter. So what I'm saying is, in general, the expulsion of foreigners who are trying to arrange papers that are trying to regulate their lives is simply unfair. In most cases, as we can see, whether we can use our finger to point either to employers because they do not pay contributions, or to the slow bureaucratic bicycles of the country in people who regulate themselves or as we have heard on the committee, that people will be expelled from the country, while they will stand in line on the administrative unit. However, not only will I be black-eyed, I have a solution in my sleeve that says or calls on the government to urgently regulate conditions where foreign workers will not be harmed by such injustice that they will not have to pay for their sins either by the state or employers with expulsion, where they will be treated normally, where they will be dealt with in accordance with the labour legislation, and above all by saying that they will not have to lose their residence permit, while they will, as it is said, wait in the procedures when they wait in line in the administrative unit, and that they will not be expelled for the sins of the State or employer. Therefore, technically, the government, colleagues and colleagues, should go in a diametrically opposite direction from what it achieves with this controversial proposal. The government should, for the first time, simplify the conditions for obtaining a single residence permit in general, to regulate all documents. Secondly, we should speed up procedures for foreign workers in obtaining these permits and generally try to open the door to foreign workers and understand that many economic sectors are completely dependent on foreign workers in Slovenia. Strengthen cooperation, strengthen opportunities for foreign workers and their employment, and even offer assistance and support to foreign workers coming to Slovenia, help at all levels in procedures mainly through bureaucracy, with which those who are clean domestic workers in Slovenia are sometimes difficult to find. I would like these things to happen that the government realizes these calls in terms of simplifying the conditions, speeding up procedures, opening the doors to foreign workers and so on, because in this way, as a society, we will at least provide the parameters of a social state. I also see opportunities to strengthen the economy. In the spirit of such proposals, however, it is time for us, colleagues and colleagues, to defeat this rotten nationalism, which, hand to heart, branches from the pores of this kind, and also this, proposals. That is why we are also proposing an amendment in Levica, which will make it easy for me to say uncertainty for foreigners and, as a result, uncertainty for key sectors of the Slovenian economy. As it is said, since the disputed article with the amendments cannot be deleted, as we have tried on the Committee, from the proposal for a law, we are now proposing in Levica at least the late application of this third paragraph of Article 38 to 2025. Why? This will allow this disputed provision to be deleted in the meantime from the law on business, self-employment and the work of foreigners, because on the one hand it simply does not drink water, technically and professionally does not drink water, does not work, people are placed in an impossible position, they want to work, but cannot, and they cannot wait and then they must go. And on the other hand, because these nationalist policies also need to be finally brought to justice in labour law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I would just like to respond to what has been said so far. With regard to the expulsion of foreigners, I would like to say that this unique permit for work and residence is not the only option for foreigners to reside in the Republic of Slovenia. And when this agreement is withdrawn after six months, when it is found that a specific worker or a foreigner coming from a third country, we speak here only for those foreigners coming from third countries, in the Republic of Slovenia a very good system has already been established to inform the Institute of Health Insurance as soon as such a foreigner is excluded from social insurance, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and then this institution also informs the foreigner that he has been excluded from the social insurance system. A foreigner has enough time to settle his status. However, it should also be pointed out that this is not a non-payment of contributions if a foreigner is not included in the social security scheme, it is said that it is not checked whether the employer pays or does not pay for it. If the employer logs him out of the work-based insurance system, then this foreigner also has the possibility to register the unemployed if he meets the conditions. I would also like to highlight the practice of the European Court of Justice when a mechanism was established at European level in 2004 to allow citizens of the European Union to move to another Member State for the purpose of seeking employment and to maintain the status of a worker with all rights for a period of six months, even though they are economically inactive during this period. It is said that the six-month period is the period for which the European Union also considers that it is sufficient time for an economically inactive person to be included in the labour market and to be included in the social security system. If that is not the case, the State may deny hospitality to such a foreigner with a view to preventing these foreigners from becoming a disproportionate burden on the social assistance system in the host Member State. The basic purpose of this unit is to be allowed to reside and work is that this foreigner coming from a third country must work, it is said, that his purpose was to come to a foreign country to work, and it was not intended to just move. The situation on the labour market in Slovenia is always checked before such a single authorisation is granted. Thus, if there is such a person in Slovenia whose job is to be filled by a third-country alien, consent shall not be given. If there is such a person on the labour market in Slovenia or in the register of unemployed persons who could be employed in such a job, then the permit shall not be issued and the foreigner shall not be able to occupy a job that a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia may occupy. This is true in all cases of first employment and also in case of traineeships. When this work permit is issued for residence and work, I would just like to stress once again, it is here that this foreigner from third countries is included in the labour market, it is said that he is working. A foreigner can be compared to a Slovenian worker in essence only after this foreigner is included in the social security system. Until the alien is included in the social security system, this third-country national has no rights in the labour market. Thus, on the basis of this authorisation, it acquires all the rights of social insurance only when it is included in the labour market and consequently loses these rights if it is not included in the labour market or if it is found that it has not been included in the social insurance scheme itself for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, the debate is still open. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'd only respond for a moment. Madam Secretary, we most often hear this argument that the objective of staying is work. The aim of being foreign workers is work and indeed, the goal of staying foreign workers is indeed work, but workers, despite the fact that employers have already been found, are having difficulty obtaining papers. In my debate, I have been most troubled by this part of the long-standing bureaucratic snake, which can extend even over a six-month period, at the end of which the worker, the man who is willing to work here, has already been working, and also has a possible orderly work ahead, driven out of the country and drives out the opportunity to bring his knowledge into our society, his efforts, his hands, to pay his taxes and so on. We're the ones who're losing. You also said that the European Union estimates that a person is to be included in the labour market – otherwise, the country can, in its own words, drive him out to be seen as a burden. The worker is never a burden, the worker is the one who creates, the worker is the opportunity, the worker is the one who contributes. It can't be a burden. And again; in fact, at all the points you mentioned, the main problem of the worker is to meet this long bureaucratic snake. Even if the Insurance Office informs the Employment Service, then the employee does not have enough time. Have you ever stood in this line on an administrative unit? Do you know how dynamic is going, how many months these people have been waiting on some basic paper? This is the concern they themselves express, this is the concern expressed in their name by the Labour Counselor, the unions, and this is the voice of the court. This is the reality of foreign workers. Then, on the other hand, they have over-frozen employers, who themselves are familiar with labour legislation and who can also make good use of it. Of course, the victims are again workers who may not know the language, not so well in this bureaucratic maze and so on. If anything happens, these people don't have enough time to make things right. And now this new burden of limitation of six months. Just before I finish. This opportunity, when you say that a foreigner then has the opportunity to register with unemployed persons if he meets the conditions. It runs into the same mine again; if the employer has been frisky enough and knows enough and knows that I say, catch the curves with the labour legislation and it is nice to him - in the notes again - to say that he has broken up, then such a worker is back in his limbo and can only go or wait for him to go in six months. In my conclusion, I repeat. Look, it's the worker who's making it. This is the sentence with which I started the position of the Group of Members. The worker and the worker are the ones who create the prosperity that creates GDP, which creates progress that preserves the state budget, the prosperity in which we can then all enjoy in the social state, in public education, in public health. And the worker is not by default and can never be a burden to the state, is an opportunity. You know what's at stake here? 780 million for weapons is a burden on the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. He's not here. Okay. We're going to the Home Affairs Committee. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I shall give the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	That's a good-bye! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreigners Act at the second meeting of 22 March 2012. A larger number of amendments were tabled in the proposal itself. In the opening presentation, the representative of the proposer, Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, stressed that he was in compliance with some of the solutions that were in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that he was also regulating certain transpositions of the Directive by European law. He touched specifically on the important knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreigners and presented changes in the evidence proving the means of subsistence and the return of foreigners. With regard to the debate, the main debate on the definition of a so-called complex crisis, both legal and substantive, was that this was an entirely contrary view of what was being dealt with, either legal procedures or abuse, when there was a greater intrusion of illegal migrants into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and then such solutions could occur. Finally, the Committee adopted a large number of amendments tabled by the SDS and NSI members. The opposition also adopted several amendments to the amendments tabled by the SMC. For reasons of immateriality, he did not then vote on the amendment of the committee proposed by the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 32 and rejected the amendments of the Left and the amendment of the SDS and NSI to Article 6, which is the proposal for an amendment of the committee proposed by the SDS and NSI to Article 15. On this basis, a cleaner was then made, which is the basis for today’s session.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since the 22nd meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Since the amendments of the Members of the Left Group to Articles 5 and 6 are substantively linked, we will discuss all amendments to these articles together. I shall put to the debate Articles 5 and 6 and the two amendments of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors to Article 6 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Applications shall be made for discussion. The first one has the word Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would touch on a little bit of a general problem in the beginning, why we have even tabled amendments to these amendments to the law. In fact, the amendments to the Law on Foreigners and later the Law on International Protection are, after all, related material, unfortunately there is a clear promise today in the National Assembly, as the Ministry of the Interior has prepared, in our opinion, to tighten the reception and residence regime for foreigners and asylum seekers in Slovenia, in such a way that foreign workers, despite the fact that Slovenia needs demographic reinforcement and additional power in the labour market, make it difficult for their families to arrive, say. Asylum seekers and refugees would try to force them to integrate into the envisaged integration system and one of the main measures is, for example, the re-closure of the border from asylum seekers. In this bill we also encounter a severe paradox of the so-called new – the concept of a complex crisis. In fact, just as in 2017, when this option was first introduced in the Foreign Act, this time at the Ministry of the Interior, they also foresee that, with an increase in the number of migrants and asylum seekers, they will declare a crisis situation. This time they want to, so you want to introduce the concept of a complex crisis, and in this crisis, the mass influx of migrants is expected to endanger the functioning of the country and the life of the population. In which case this is supposed to happen, but you haven't really defined it, you haven't explained it, and that's why it's not at all clear, because in this way, for example, migrants haven't crippled any other countries in the world, but you're obviously getting ready for Slovenia to do it. Constitutional lawyers, as well as we in the political opposition, keep reminding us of the consequences of declaring the so-called complex crisis, which in fact means nothing but the almost complete elimination of the asylum system. Such an option had already been adopted in the version of the Foreigners Act in 2017, but because of the danger that expelled asylum seekers would be subjected to torture and inhumane treatment, the Constitutional Court repealed it. This time, at the Ministry of the Interior and in the coalition, you claim that the law would allow for an individual to judge whether an individual alien, for example, is at risk of being able to apply for asylum or not. And I'm asking you -- is that right? What about the example we recently learned of of a citizen from the Democratic Republic of Congo? In fact, this is an obvious case if you are already individually assessing the threat to someone in the country of origin and our authorities have nevertheless rejected the request for international protection, for example. The asylum application rejected at the Ministry of the Interior for asylum in its home country was a victim of political persecution due to her husband's political activities. She, along with her daughters, applied for asylum because at her home in the Democratic Republic of Congo, she was attacked by a militia of the opposite political party. This militia used rape as a measure of war violence against which it was later unable to find shelter in its home country. I am talking about the consequences – the honourable Member is once again getting excited and the wings with his hands – I am talking about the consequences of the declaration of a complex crisis when all such applications for asylum are virtually impossible. I'm warning you about the consequences, and these things are connected. The request for asylum, which will be disabled, for international protection, which will be disabled, is all connected. So stop pretending like we're talking about some completely separate matter. In short, on the MNZ and in the coalition, you claim that the law would allow individual judgment. As you judge individually, this is a eloquent case of a citizen from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, who, of course, will be sent to where she will be raped again or even more. And you say, if you find that a foreigner is not at risk — you have obviously found that in this case — you should reject his intention to file an application for international protection. This raises the question whether the intention is at all a separate legal act that can be rejected, or whether it is merely a descriptive term for the initiation of an asylum procedure. This is in line with the European legal intent, intent, which is interpreted by the European EASO Asylum Office and the Frontex External Borders Agency. In fact, the fact that the asylum system has been partially abolished by your proposal for a law also requires a paragraph in the law, which provides that Slovenia should inform the international organisations responsible for refugee rights: the Council of Europe, the UN, the UNHCR and the European Commission in such a case. Now I ask you why we should inform them if we should not even reject the asylum applications themselves, but merely the intentions that are not yet part of the asylum procedure. This too, for example, is not completely clear. In short, the opponents are reminded of another consequence. We note that the proposal is once again unconstitutional because it will pose exactly the same risks as it did in 2017 and has already been judged by the Constitutional Court. Asylum seekers could receive a chain return from the country to the country after refusal, and this could also result in torture or inhumane conduct, which is also prohibited in an emergency or war state, respected, but the Government and the Ministry of the Interior claim, of course, that there is no danger of torture in Croatia, although I have clearly demonstrated to you, for the last time in a long and broad debate, how much torture is there, and also showed you the collection, the archive, the file of more than a thousand cases described in the book I had last time about so-called Pushbacks. The law, of course, we will give it a constitutional assessment and, of course, it will fall again in the Constitutional Court, it can be no different; but you are kicking your head through the wall and not even considering what the Legislative-Legal Service says, no opinion and no argument in you comes across at the hearing, to some patient, reasoned debate. You just want to, obviously, close Slovenia even more than if the wire on the border wasn't enough, you want to make it inexorably closed and you're, excuse us, turning it into a common xenophobic province. Now, if I'm not mistaken that you opened Article 5, the chairman. We propose that the article be deleted in accordance with Article 5 and Article 6 of the Law on Foreigners, Article 10a and Article 10b, with a majority of the votes of all Members of the so-called complex crisis. I spoke about this paradox of a complex crisis in the beginning. In the field of international protection, Slovenia, as a signatory to the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, the European Convention on Human Rights and as a member of the European Union, has assumed international and European obligations in the field of international protection. The proposed articles essentially constitute an intervention in the right to international protection and infringement of both international and European obligations binding on the Republic of Slovenia. As a signatory to the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, Slovenia is obliged to deal with all applications for asylum submitted by foreigners, whether they have entered Slovenian territory in a lawful or unlawful manner. The arrangements allowing rejected intentions to apply for international protection are therefore in complete contradiction with the provisions of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. Provisions allowing the suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, despite the stated intention of the applicant, not to apply the provisions of the International Protection Act, ZMZ-1. However, the suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees is only possible in accordance with Article 44 of the Convention, which regulates the formal procedure. The proposed amendments would thus, if Articles 10a and 10b were activated, constitute a suspension of the human right to international protection. The Constitutional Court in Case U-1-59/17 of 18. 9. 2019, in which it pointed out that the principle of non-refoulement contained in Article 18 of the Constitution relating to the prohibition of torture prohibits a person who is in real danger of being extradited to or expelled from that country in the event of his return to the country from which he came. The Court stressed that the non-refoulement principle confers on the applicant the right to enter and reside in the country. In addition, it grants an individual the right to enter into a fair and effective procedure in which the competent authority must assess whether the removal, expulsion or extradition of an individual could violate that principle. The Constitutional Court further explained that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow for an interpretation under which the Aliens Act would regulate the situation where the existence of a State would be threatened and there would be valid reasons to base the conclusion that there is a real danger that the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia would be exposed to inhumane behaviour due to the changed situation in the field of migration. I'm talking about emergency situations. Furthermore, in accordance with the established judgment, the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and the EU of Justice referred to in Article 18 of the URS cannot be limited, and any intervention thereof shall be inadmissible. The proposed amendments are therefore contrary to both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court decision I mentioned by 18. 9th of 2019. In addition, the proposed provisions do not provide for an automatic suspension effect of a complaint against a decision to dismiss an individual’s intention to submit an application for international protection. In practice, this means that before the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, an individual could be returned to the country from which he came. Such a provision constitutes a violation of the right to an effective remedy and does not provide sufficient protection against the prohibition of return, this is a non-refoulement, as the correctness and legality of the contested decision in practice could not be effectively challenged by an individual. The activation of the proposed articles could thus lead to illegal or collective expulsions prohibited by the fourth Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights and would also restrict access to international protection. The provisions relating to the assessment of the age of unaccompanied minors are also controversial. In line with the proposed amendment, the police will assess – the police will assess – whether it is by appearance, behaviour or other circumstances for a unaccompanied minor, as if the police are qualified for such assessments. In case of doubt about the age of a unaccompanied minor, the law provides that an assessment of the age to be carried out only then must be carried out, right, and carried out by an expert in the medical profession. The police for the assessment of age, of course, as I said, are not properly qualified, and the assessment of age does not fall within its competence. The decision thus violates the fundamental rights of children and its application in practice could lead to a violation of the provisions of the Foreigners Act 2 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The introduction of the complex crisis mechanism follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, which I mentioned earlier, and represents a new attempt to introduce practically identical provisions, but this time not at the level of so-called emergency, which could only be a constitutional category, but at the lower level, at the legal level. As mentioned above, this proposed amendment is unconstitutional in terms of the prohibition of torture or the non-refoulement rule, in particular in connection with the return of refugees without decisions taken and thus without the possibility of applying any legal remedy. In particular, there is a disputed action without decisions in procedures and the use of cross-border referrals. The cross-border posting was the term used for the deletion when the dispatch number was 0016/4-14968 of 27. 2. 1992 the day following the removal of the current High State Official, Director of the Ministry of the Interior Slavko Debelak, ordered the police to be removed from the border without a decision, so that today, without a decision to be taken, the deleted cannot still confirm the deportations in their cases. In the case of deleted persons, this meant that the deleted officers led to the state border, showed him where the foreign was, most often it was Croatia, and made it completely illegal and without a decision or decision across the state border. In the case of children, such a legal rule would also violate the principle of respecting the best interests of the child under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I therefore absolutely propose that the article be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I will also be more general in some short work at the beginning and I will touch on the Foreigner Act as usual in accordance with parliamentary practice. In fact, the Aliens Act is that birth law, we can say the law governing the situation of foreigners, i.e. those who are without Slovenian citizenship. Let me make it clear that every foreigner must have a reason for legal entry, transit and residence in the territory of our country. To the extent that he does not have it, appropriate procedures are under way for his voluntary departure or the possible removal of a foreigner or deportation, as it is called in the profession. However, if a foreigner applies for international protection, this law shall cease to apply fully and this foreigner shall be treated under the International Protection Act. And that law, which we consider second, regulates these matters in accordance with international law. The articles that are ahead of us, the 5th and the 6th, which are fully connected, deal with a new concept, that is the concept of a complex crisis, a concept that we do not know anywhere in our country so far. Let me remind you that Article 92 of the Constitution clearly sets out what crisis situations are in our country. This is just a state of war that is declared or proclaimed by this State Assembly in the event of a war and an extraordinary state that is also proclaimed by this State Assembly. Under this state of emergency, for example, a worse migration wave through our country could also be counted. Since, of course, the declaration of a state of emergency, both for the state and for the government that runs this country, constitutes a financial asset, not least a violation of the reputation in the international space, since it might be considered that the state is not capable of any control over migration, this government has, of course, brought before us a new concept of a complex crisis, as it has been called. However, it is not too much to recall or recall that similar events occurred in 2015 and 2016, when Slovenia really faced numbers that are probably almost incomprehensible today, were at least a hundred times, if not a thousand times higher than what we have today. At that time, the Ministry had established a non-complex crisis, but it had defined the concept when the rights of foreigners to apply for international protection could be restricted. The Constitutional Court has completely repealed this provision because such a restriction on international protection under international law constitutes a violation of our Constitution by European law because it may be considered to be a restriction and a violation of fundamental human rights. And in Article 5, which Levica wants to delete, that is to say, the deletion of the concept of a complex crisis, in our opinion and in view of what this government has allowed itself lately, of course, constitutes an intervention in some right to international protection and, of course, constitutes a violation of international legal acts. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is also very understandable. This clearly states or clearly warns that such a record of a complex crisis, at least in this part as it is here, is substantially too general and meaningfully loose. There is no telling what will happen, how it will happen, and what this will mean for those who ask for international protection. We also do not know from what arrangements such measures are based on which such a complex crisis is foreseen. In fact, as we say, we do not know in the constitution of such a provision. Notwithstanding the circumstances prevailing in the country, the State is always responsible for the implementation of the legislation and, under the circumstances, the State is, of course, obliged to adapt these provisions in a manner that does not restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms in any way. Article 6 also of the article tabled by the Left, and since we have also tabled our amendment to the LMŠ, allow me to explain it. Regardless of the fact that we are against the term of a complex crisis, in our view, the LMŠ will, if it comes to the Constitutional Court, most likely be repealed; that is, the regulation that is now being introduced into law. With the help of SMC, an amendment has been adopted, which has not only delegated jurisdiction to the National Assembly, but has determined that a complex crisis is being decided by a majority of Members, including constitutionally disputed. Finally, in almost 90 per cent, such an article or arrangement was annulled by the Constitutional Court in that 2016 decision. But since we are aware — and do not live in the world of another reality — that this law will be passed, the coalition majority is still the majority, we have still tabled an amendment that the coalition has not even noticed until our submission. Thus, Articles 5 and 6 are equalized and in all directions the Government is replaced by the text 'State Assembly'. I also find it difficult to understand why after more than two weeks the coalition has tabled a perfectly identical amendment, really almost identical to what we have already tabled in the LMŠ. I don't see the need for this, just that somehow more red tape, despite the fact that we're going to make this amendment, as far as I know, a one-off decision, is what we're going to do together. I don't see why the coalition is making the same and exactly the same amendment, except for boasting that it has arranged something on its own. Once again, in the LMŠ we are a truly clear and very loud defender of fundamental rights; the rights provided for by both our constitution, the law, as laid down by the European Union and international legal acts. I am never and never against sharpening – and this, Minister, you know – if these exacerbations are absolutely necessary, if these exacerbations are necessary and if they are legally permissible. Since we have seen many times with this government, and also with ministers, that they are pursuing procedures that turn out to be even later on to illegal procedures that are questionable, and given that this government, under the SDS tactics, strongly implements its ideological agenda in all the fields of this social sphere and also in the acts related to the international legal order, I wonder, of course, where we are going as a society and whether such exacerbations are really necessary. Finally, I do not think it is necessary to remind that the figures of the last year and a half show no need to tighten such legislation. However, the figures increased in 2018 and 2019 when the government was led by Marjan Sarec were clear that this could be managed and managed without major difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. I'm sorry. The Minister's earlier. Okay. Boštjan Koražija and then Comrade Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you. Thank you, President, for your word. When we talk about this complex crisis, there has also been an issue on the committee, if I recall correctly, and Mr Hojs will also remember, Minister, that there have been quite a number of concerns on this topic. One of the major ones is this case of the declaration of this complex crisis, when even certain powers, or most of the powers, would actually turn to police officers who would then do their job — at the border, for example. Here, in particular and also on the committee, the question of how, what role, what administrative procedures will run, or how this officer will then answer. I do not believe that you will be able to be police officers in all or in all asylum procedures, including with regard to the International Protection Act, to be skilled. But I don't doubt the cops, I believe they're capable of such things, but there can be problems in the process of error, or even issues, that someone will have to solve in any way. Thus, from this point of view, this is the problem that you did not clarify or fully explain to the committee at the time, how this is to be done or on what basis this officer will decide, who may not enter or even begin or give the initiative for an asylum procedure. I don't know what's going on lately, but I'm afraid that Slovenia, even in the mandate of Prime Minister Janez Janša, wants to be some kind of island in the middle of Europe. I don't know why, but since we're a very transitive country and we're also in the middle of everything, even in cases like this bill, one really asks himself and only a dragon with a head because it's easy; the first is written in the sense that it doesn't have a real tail or head. Look, there have been migrations, in fact migration will take place in one way or another all the time, but we are not currently experiencing any terrible or severe migration flows that would endanger us in one way or another. Of course, I support the deletion of this Articles 5 and 6 or the amendment to Articles 5 and 6 in order to delete Articles, and of course I hope that you will listen to or take this into account, whatever the case. I am a person of opinion, and so are we in Levi, as well as all those who are thinking in the direction of a more left-wing option when it comes to international protection and when it comes to human rights for the protection of refugees or for the protection of migrants, I do not think we should allow this to happen — in violation of some international conventions or legislation. So I hope that you will heed the suggestions or if you will. I would point out once again, in fact, we are the biggest problems ourselves, we are threatening the Slovenians, so I don't know why we leave so many times or even feel threatened by everything else around us. Because many times all the things around us and then they came to us brought only positive or even new things, they contributed to the open society and also to the development of society itself, or civilization. Since we are striving for a plural society or an open society, such legislation, as you have now proposed, is out of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you again! What really faces today in this debate? One is a policy, not only of Slovenian but of global left-wingism, which wants to totally and totalitarianly impose an absolute advantage on foreigners from their own citizens and citizens. On the other hand, we place those who are right - or right - centred, but against this principle, that all must be treated with the same criteria. It is said that we want to put our citizens and citizens at the same level as foreigners. No one, no right of any foreigner can and must not be given priority over Slovenian citizens and citizens. There is no right of any foreigner to have Slovenian citizens and citizens the right to live safely, to live in a state of prosperity, to respect their constitutional rights, to guarantee all the rights granted to them by the Slovenian legal order, indivisiblely and completely. There can be no foreigner's right over this. When it comes to the issue of human rights, this must be considered as a whole, and when it comes to the level of access to these rights, we are all equal and equal. A foreigner cannot have a right over Slovenian citizens and citizens, even if this is decided by the Constitutional Court in a decision that is, to say the least, scandalous. Because there is a left — how much? Ratio 8: 1 or something like that, or 7:2 as you count. So, what is needed today is to talk about the truth, about what is constitutionality. And you won't believe that constitutionality is not judged by the Left. It's been said before, it's unconstitutional. It can be obvious to someone, and sometimes we say it, but someone can't just say that something is unconstitutional. After we're talking about a complex crisis, I think we're going to have to introduce, like, complex ignorance or something. An example of that refusal of an asylum seeker, which we have already discussed on the Committee and you are starting it again today, has taken place on the basis of existing legislation. Existing, ladies and gentlemen! Then criticize the existing legislation with this argument, not by attacking the solutions offered in the new legislation. This is completely absurd and stupid. That's all there is to it. And then you use this trick and people listen and they don't even know what it is. I have already pointed out on the committee that it seems very unusual to me what happens in Slovenian bureaucracy when it decides on these matters, because whenever the issue of this law arises, there is a very unusual decision. Once, in previous mandates, this appeared as a proposal for change, they suddenly expelled a Christian family back to an area where even fighting was at the time. Wait, wait, wait, wait! In fact, Christians are the only group that is systematically, systematically black, vanquishing, persecuting, virtually everywhere in the world. And it is the Christian family that is being exiled back to Syria, where there were fighting at the time, that there are none today. It's a very unusual policy, isn't it? And that was, by the way, one of the former governments that was very left. Now that's what happened with that decision. I don't have all the elements to discuss, but I find this a very strange decision, and I admit that. But isn't it strange that this always happens when that question opens? Then, because existing legislation is obviously questionable on some points, it attacks the solutions offered for the new legislation. Yeah, that's great. That's the logic to make a man cry. When it comes to constitutionality, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution must be considered as a whole. And you will not believe it, but the Constitution also has the first paragraph of Article 3, which reads, “Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens, which is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination”. This is said to be the country of all its citizens and citizens. It's not a foreign country, ladies and gentlemen! It is a country of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Stop by yourself. Never forget this article, please. And it is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. This is the basis of Slovenian statehood. That's not nationalism. This is the constitutional basis of the state of Slovenia. Don't forget that either, please. The law before us really follows the trends that have now been fully present in the European space or, if you will, in the European Union. I used to say you should use the term "complex ignorance." It is very unusual that no one notices the historic decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is now more than two years old, which decided that if there is a mass incursion across the border of a sovereign Member State of the European Union, all those involved in this intrusion will lose the right to individual treatment and can be expelled from where they came from immediately and without a procedure. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a policy, if you want, of the Court of Justice of the European Court of Human Rights and if you talk about it, it is necessary to know this and it must be taken into account, and this will also have to be taken into account by the Slovenian Constitutional Court, even if it does not like this policy. Why? Because things have gone too far. What is really facing Europe today, but also Slovenia? The question of asylum was once handled differently and today it is dealt with in a completely different way and in other situations than was meant at the time of acceptance. And then, of course, by imposing certain legislative solutions, even by sanctioning those who think otherwise, to force foreigners to have an absolute advantage over citizens and citizens. They can't have it, under no circumstances. That would be contrary to all other articles of the Constitution. When it comes to fundamental human rights, we can only be equal. Once again, no foreigner's right can be over the rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens to live safely, to live in a state of prosperity, to respect their personal integrity, their human rights and all the rights given them by the Slovenian Constitution and the Slovenian legal order. There can be no foreigner's right over this. Deal with this and then we can talk peacefully about the solutions offered here, which are logical, which are fully in line with the European directives. I argue that there is room enough to further sharpen them, but solutions such as these are the fruit of the coalition that is now being drawn up. And it was a common denominator. Unfortunately, some people are still jumping out, but that's not why. Let us hope that things will be handled properly now. This is a question of solutions that are consistent with what has been the trend in recent years in all neighbouring countries. Please, please, ask yourself what Italy, Austria have adopted, not to list all other countries, France, if you want Germany, as tightening up either foreign legislation or asylum legislation. Everything in the same direction, in the same direction as this decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which I have been talking about. The fact that borders will be open on average, and I don't know what, it's gone. Some countries hide this a little bit more because they have lions in power, but also where the lions are, they have further sharpened legislation. Slovenia cannot afford it because it is so strategically exposed and small and therefore sensitive that it would have more, if you want, open or stretching legislation than neighbouring countries. That is all that is really the case with these proposals, which are before us to harmonise Slovenian legislation and Slovenian legal order and adapt it to what all the neighbouring countries have done long ago, and also to this policy, which is reflected in the decision of the European Court of Human Rights if you want. That's why attacking it, discrediting it, is nicely said incorrect. It is unfair, however, that possible errors — that they may be errors — or because of the unclear existing legislation is used to discredit those proposals that are before us, which mean improvements that mean precision, and which in some parts also mean exacerbations, of course, which bring more responsibility while at the same time improve all that is at the heart of Slovenian citizens and citizens who need it, regardless of who it is, but fortunately it does, to provide them with steps in order to ensure all that the Slovenian Constitution gives them. [[…]] And no matter what changed international situation, no matter what we face. However, if things were to be 100 per cent sharpened, as you are showing, then things should be returned, and you have already done so in the last term with one of your own amendments, to the level that was actually meant when everything about migration, illegal migration and asylum legislation was adopted. It has simply been said that if you come from a safe country, you do not have the right to asylum. In Slovenia we live in an area where there is no war in the neighbourhood, there are safe countries themselves, which of course means that there is no need to deal with this issue at all. But then you accepted it, and then you got scared of yourself and you deleted it from the already adopted law. Today, solutions are different. They are not nearly as radical, and I would like them to be, but they are harmonised and limited in that framework, which, according to our firm belief, falls within the framework of the European legal order and which, on the other hand, allows Slovenia to properly address these issues in accordance with its capabilities; with the fact that, of course, it puts Slovenian citizens and citizens first, the rights it owes them, and everything else it does within its capabilities. The ability of Slovenia, in particular in the current circumstances, is by no means unlimited. However, that the Constitutional Court has sometimes ruled what it really says in that judgment is that if even basic activities were to be threatened, vital activities for citizens and citizens should still be open borders and given priority to foreigners, and this says much about this constitutional court. Although this is true, I personally feel that this is an indescribable and indelible disgrace. By the way, which is probably the most interesting thing for you, such a decision by the Slovenian Constitutional Court is clearly contrary to the decision taken by the European Court of Human Rights, which has ruled quite the contrary. The verdict is more than at this point in this article, which you are proposing to delete, because this article does not exclude individual treatment, as it is now written, while the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights explicitly states that if a large group of illegal migrants invade the territory of a sovereign Member State of the European Union, they will automatically lose their right to individual treatment and return immediately and without any further procedure from where they came. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the policy of the European Court of Human Rights, and before this debate begins, please know this very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Thank you very much. And then there's the minister's word, and then there's another round. Replics? Okay. Replica, colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. What we've just heard, this demagogic Huja speech, I'd rather not comment. In general, I would like to know exactly what refugees are threatening Slovenian citizens and what their rights over citizens' rights are – they are not in any way. That's one thing. Second. The solutions proposed, outlined in this proposal for a law, will bring more cases, such as the case of a citizen of the Republic of Congo. Third time. The Left is not a constitutional judge, but I will say again what the Constitutional Court has said so that there will be no such deceiving speakers here. Indeed, in this proposal, there are provisions which allow, despite the stated intention of the applicant, not to apply the provisions of the Law on International Protection. This, Your Honor, represents the suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. I'm sorry, but you've forgotten a whole series of international conventions and instruments, and you're referring here to some case, and I don't even know him, so you can now say anything and deceive. But here is a whole bunch of conventions, international commitments and a provision in this proposal allowing not to apply the provisions of the Law on International Protection in the event of your complex crisis and this would constitute suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. This suspension has already been defined once before by the Constitutional Court and will be redefined if you move forward with such proposals. That you say that foreigners have more rights than citizens. Really? But so that they no longer have rights, will you, for example, extend the period of family reunification from one year to two years? But you don't think that this is really a terrible discrimination and unnecessary suffering of the people who are already working here, and you're going to experience it without having to. Why? Because you're a common xenophobic, and you write such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Gradually, Comrade Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Look, this is going across the board. I suggest you give a very clear warning and give a reminder to Mrs Sukič. In the same breath, she says that she doesn't even know this decision of the European Court, and at the same time insults me, because I refer to it, and declares me xenophobic. Madam, this decision of the European Court of Justice has been widely discussed, published publicly, discussed in Slovenia by Boštjan M. Zupančič, Dr Klemen Jaklič, and by some other most respected constitutional lawyers, and if you do not know it, it is so much worse for you. But please don't judge or insult those who know this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Comrade Grimes, I think the debate is going relatively well. Anyone else, replica? It's a replica of a colleague named Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I have to replicate. That's what I'm saying, because he obviously didn't understand me at work anymore because I was talking about the problem of a complex crisis as an unconstitutional provision. Your comment, colleague, on the Constitutional Court's decision that it is stupid, incomprehensible that the court is shameful, points to your attitude towards the highest court in the country, your attitude towards the judiciary and respect for the division of power and thus the Constitution. I do not think anyone here today has said that foreigners must have any advantage over Slovenian citizens. I don't know – who said that? I'm begging you so much because this is no longer a deception, it's a lie and stop lying, please, because it's really not nice. Set things up, if necessary, but let these things be clear and legal, and now they're not. One more thing, Mr Grimes, when you say you're right-handed, I'm more stupid than I've ever heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Dear colleagues, you still have enough time to discuss, so I suggest you apply to the debate. It's a replica. Comrade Korazi, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	I'd just like to replicate Mr Grimes. See, in fact, in the event that the adoption takes place, and I am afraid that this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners will be adopted, in fact, Slovenia will become the country with the strictest border regime in the EU, following all the data available to us. In fact, this earlier debate, which went this way, is that we will become a country with the strictest border regime in the EU. Why, what? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I would just start with what Mr Korazia said in the end. I am not going to repeat all these numbers, which I said exactly last time, but look, in last year, some 100,000 foreigners entered Europe after the latest data I received last week when I visited Europol, which is a relatively low number. But look at the fragment, and 10,000 of them were found at the Slovenian-Croatian border. Ten thousand of them. This means 10 percent of all people who have entered Europe illegally have been arrested by our police. More than 10 percent, 14,000. And you're wondering what the problem is. With 350 million Europeans with huge countries, two million Slovenians with a small country that prevents more than 14 000 or more than 10 per cent from entering, almost 14 per cent of those who go to Europe illegally say, and you wonder where the problem is. You're even so rude, not you personally, but Mrs. Sukič to personally mark me as a xenophobic. I think so! That's really an insult, isn't it? See, if for you the adoption of the Aliens Act – by the way, which does not regulate international protection; does not regulate international protection, I have already said this many times – so that if I say more after home, after two years when he joins the family, someone will have to know the Slovenian language at A1 level – if it is xenophobia for you or if someone comes here when he will be allowed to stay and work after five years, he will know the Slovenian language at this higher level, at A2 level – if it is xenophobia for you, then I do not imagine anything else but that you do not like that Slovenians continue to live like Slovenians. [[…]] Now I'm going to make an introduction across the board so I don't get to make many calls. First of all, I would like to say one very important thing that has been highlighted several times on the committee, which is particularly forceful or repeatedly repeated by the LMŠ party, specifically Mr Nik Prebil, who is saying that we are reintroducing into this law a concept called a complex crisis. Mr. Nick Prebil, read the Law on Government, which I have not adopted, which has long been in force. And I hope it's the right article, because in the letter you don't know if it's the right article or if it's not the right article, because we don't have unofficially refined texts. What we want to do in the Debarcation Act, by the way, you're all in the luft because this Official Gazette, with the millions of dollars we're paying, is not capable of doing, and the citizen, when he goes to the Official Journal, has to look at this text, make a glue, has to cut it off to say, yeah, this doesn't apply, 13. Nor are they able to write the law as an officially refined text, nor do the Official Gazette. And you're upset because we're gonna put this in a debirocracy! Read article 20 of this law. The Government Act, Mr. Prebil the LMŠ party and the left party, and the SD party. The government law is talking about a complex crisis. He even defines her. It states, however, that a complex crisis is considered to be the occurrence, event or situation of a greater threat to fundamental social values and to a more severe natural or other disaster, and the resulting major uncertainties and relatively short time to act beyond the response capacity of individual ministries, government services, national security subsystems and so on. In doing so, fundamental social values include the preservation of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the country, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, constitutional democracy. [[…]] So Article 6 of the Government Act defines a complex crisis. And you've been explaining here for the second time, the last time on the board, and today on this diaper, we're introducing some sort of concept. Read your marriage earlier. So we're not introducing anything new, nothing new. The Government Act introduced a complex crisis, and in the Foreigners Act we define what will happen in that complex crisis that will result from migration – by the way, such a complex crisis has already been 2015. I don't know if there's really gonna be another year or not, but maybe 2023. And we follow strictly what the Constitutional Court ordered. So, the Constitutional Court annulled that article, demanded that each individual be treated individually, and on the basis of this activation, where, by the way, we followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warned of this, that you did not warn, that the Legislative and Legal Service had warned that in the Government Act the activation of these states, such as the state of emergency and so on, was within the competence of the National Assembly and that it would be reasonable to declare a complex crisis to the National Assembly. So, differently than we suggested, he does. We have followed this proposal, so we have tabled an amendment to transfer powers from the Government back to the National Assembly. And what you are saying is that there is no need to coordinate the amendment, but I must say that it is necessary, given that it is a harmonisation amendment, where there is an error in that article, where there is still a government in it, but this has not been transferred or changed to the National Assembly. And there's nothing else about it. No desire for someone to fasten their collars. I don't care if you suggest this, because we have actually decided three weeks ago to follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and we have adopted this proposal. And a complex crisis is proclaimed by the National Assembly. Look, here's the thing. The Constitutional Court has stated that it is necessary to treat each person individually. Of course, that is not what Mrs Sukič is saying that these people will not be treated individually. They'll be treated individually. But after they're treated individually, you'll start, well, because you've already started, but you said that the police officer is certainly not qualified to check someone out there. Yes, how can it overwind, whether there are systemic deficiencies in the neighbouring country regarding international protection procedures and the conditions for admission of applicants that could lead to a risk of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment? So the police aren't qualified to do that. He is trained — by whom? The Peace Institute? Or are they from Metelk's 6 or something? Which you have a whole bunch of. No, ma'am, look, this is what international institutions are trained to do. Not everyone will be asked whether the problem is with Croatia because it does not have a system in place to do so. This has already been decided, or it will be decided. So it's either a court or a European institution, not an NGO with Metelkova 6. However, in order not to be a dilemma, it is also necessary to look at it, even though Croatia is not on this list, that everything is okay in Croatia, but perhaps this foreigner in this country has been exposed to the danger of torture or can be treated inhuman or degradingly and so on. Yeah, well, in this case, I guess you'll let the police assess that. Will We Have — Anything? Three journalists from the Youth, who will stand next to a police officer, will say that he does. Or those journalists from Bosnia, down there, pointing them where they have to go on GPS to illegally cross the border. So, here's where the individual treatment will be. Further individual treatment will be the health situation of this gentleman or lady who has come to this limit illegally. Further individual consideration will be given to whether, by appearance, behaviour or other circumstances, it can be said that this is a unaccompanied minor. He could probably be a cop, I trust them that when they see a 30-year-old man, they can estimate that he's not a minor. Do you think we need any of Metelk's 6 again to say that? I don't think so. See, each such individual hearing follows strictly what the Constitutional Court ordered upon its repeal, so I am sure that everything that the Constitutional Court wanted was taken into account in this law. I am sure that this matter will also endure in the Constitutional Court because we have gone in the direction that we have been commanded in the Constitutional Court. The next thing that is very important in this law is the transfer of obligations from the EU to the acquis. Unfortunately, we had earlier governments that had been, one for four years and one for Mira Cerarr for a little less than Mr Sarc. But see, the transfer of these obligations has fallen or should have been realized in 2018, and in May 2018 the deadline for the implementation of this Directive has expired, but unfortunately it is not the government that should have done it, not later, but we have now implemented it into this law, that is all that. Because, see, by the way, it's a tremendous relief, it doesn't exacerbate anything, but it makes it terribly easy for our country to enter into those for whom our country is very interested – students, researchers, all those educated people, if we call them, who would like to come to Slovenia – and all those who already have contracts with our research institutes are from third countries, and in this way will come to us much easier, work with us, educate themselves, study and so on. So, things are getting easier, and there's no way they're getting any worse. Then there is the possibility, or I would say that this law further defines residence permits that are reinforced. So it's about biometrics, by the way. A while ago, we passed the Law on ID, if you remember, where another law is needed, which I think will be adopted here in a short time. We are starting the public procurement procedure for the implementation of these biometric cards and we are laying the groundwork for not only these identity cards, but also the permits that we issue to foreigners for residence, but biometric ones, which means that we are essentially strengthening security and somehow following what we have also commanded Slovenian citizens. At the same time, of course, we are also saving in this law the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and that transitional period, which is also a lane 21. 12. You know, it was a transitional period. I met twice with the ambassador of Great Britain, who also somehow expressed some fear that the matter would be for these citizens after 1. 1. 2021 has complicated it, given that the law has not yet been passed, but I have assured her that it will not be so, and in fact, with the appropriate instructions on all administrative units, we have solved or are saving them, so that there is no special delay here. Then one very important thing in this law is the one who talks about it or who saves the affairs of all those foreigners who are staying with us illegally. But it is clear here that we can no longer tolerate going on a two- or three-step procedure or playing our system. That is why we are introducing a one-stage system, which, of course, those who have to leave the country leave this country within 10 days after an administrative unit has issued this decision. Or even a 30-day deadline exists as long as there is a removal – or the fact that he leaves the country is willing to do it voluntarily; that is, so that he has more time. What is very important, which has also been misused many times, I must say that he even spoke about it on the last TV show, and I think that on Radiotelevision Slovenia was Mr Lukić, i.e. a union representative or something. He has been particularly active lately, even here on the board, if you remember when he talked about these foreign workers when he said so himself, yes, because it is perfectly logical that employers pay these workers a little more for travel costs, and give them a little more for food and so on. What do you think if they paid them all on a regular basis? We'd be completely uncompetitive because no one will want to work with us anymore, and we won't have any workers at the end. I mean, just what I said on the committee, that we want to show the resources that these people deserve in our country, of course, in a legal way. So that these are paid contributions, taxes, but not that people are essentially forced into some semi-legal revenue, by fictitiously increasing their travel costs, or lunch, or even more to be heard even by paying them more to bring money back so that they can enforce that censorship in order to get permission to stay and work. I am sure that things need to be sharpened here and that employers are also needed Last but not least, see, the main labour force, which they somehow have in Slovenia, is carried by two key economic industries; one is construction and the other is hospitality. [[…]] Forgive me if in construction, where the country has enormously increased investment, where extremely much work is foreseen in the coming years, where the prices in construction are already rising very much in the last year, given that the capacity is limited, these employers will not pay these workers fairly, and then I really don't know when they will. Let them pay them honestly, pay them fair wages, and there will be no problems in not being able to pay enough or under that limit or censorship to get permission. As far as knowledge of the Slovenian language is concerned, I have already said. Nor is it true what some here have said that we will not have enough foreign power. We are such a liberal country that if someone comes here to work on the first temporary permit, there is no need to know any Slovenian language, "he can witness how he knows". But look, after he extends his license or even more when he brings his family together, I guess we'll all be able to learn Slovenian – or not? I have also told you that no one who goes to Austria to work or Italy thinks of not being able to speak either Austrian or German or Italian. We are surprised if we sharpen this condition a little, so that these people will learn Slovenian in our country. Then they're here for 30 years, and they still don't speak Slovenian. Not to mention what I was saying on the committee, that we have translators there in health homes when women come for examination, or in primary school; we have flyers in New Town, we have a note to the students, and there is a notice in Albanian below. Hello! It is probably right to learn the Slovenian language. Isn't it? All the way to the end. I'm not going to repeat who the law was aligned with. Of course, it is clear that with all those from Metelkov 6 it cannot be coordinated, nor will it ever be coordinated unless it is written there. So if you wrote it there, then you'd be, in my opinion, really perfect, wouldn't you? Therefore, at the end of this presentation, I would only add that, in the light of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly, under the conditions of procedure met, also carry out a third examination of the proposed law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Dear Minister, well, you've taken time to make some very interesting statements. Like, for the first time. I said it was a xenophobic written law, but you clearly recognized yourself inside as xenophobic. That's your problem, not mine. Secondly, in 2020 we had 10 per cent fewer border crossings than in the year before, but you are now making this worse. Thirdly, you are already giving instructions that violate the laws currently in force, now returning refugees without even being able to apply for international protection. And what exactly are you doing? You're just laying foundation, extra bases, so you can wash your hands. Thirdly or fourthly, the police are not qualified for everything you've listed, not by any means anyone from the Metelkov 6 Peace Institute before being a police officer. Absolutely. Furthermore, you are talking about knowledge of Slovenian language. I don't think those who want to stay with us have a problem learning the Slovenian language. The problem that's in here is that there are discriminatory issues. For example, will you require this condition to be met with some top economic expert, such as the foreign director of a multinational in Slovenia? [[advertising from the hall]] Really, huh? Will you? Well, I'd like to see you do. Otherwise, I don't know what you're doing, but I know a lot of people who came from the former Yugoslavia who work here, and they all speak Slovenian without you having to write it specifically in law. You're just enjoying writing things. Next. The scales are threatening our values. Really? And you will judge when our values will be at greater risk, and you will suggest to the National Assembly that by a simple majority – be careful, by a simple majority – accept the state of the complex crisis. Are you going to suggest that? You'll probably jump into a luft as soon as you get something, something, something, and you will – what? By a simple majority of these things were accepted in the National Assembly? Really? This is an emergency, Your Honor. I think it's a shame that this term even got in there, but if it has to be because you're kicking so much, the two-thirds majority would be the one, in fact, that such a thing should be accepted. I'm asking you so nicely, what you're going to do is really sad and that's xenophobic. It's the xenophobia that literally branches out of this marriage, I'm very sorry. When you read this, you see where the taco dog prays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have to replicate to Minister Hoys, because again, as in his custom, he's turning his words and trying to make the other side look bad. Minister, that we are on the clear footing; you and your party have not given any warning in this law, nor have you received anything at all. The amendments that are now in this law have been adopted by the opposition with the support of the SMC. As far as I know, they were under severe pressure because of this, and these are the corrections that some, not all, are in line with, with the opinion of the ZPS and your party voted against it. As for Article 6, when I spoke there about the amendment that was tabled, you were not in the Chamber at the time, because you were, of course, late in this respected assembly, I was talking about that we had already put an amendment in the LMŠ to the notice of the Legislative and Legal Service, and you put the matter in the same way again. All I'm talking about is I don't see the need for it, except for you bragging about it here, like you're doing right now. As for the Government Act and the complex crisis. Look, the government law doesn't bind the consequences of what this law introduces. And in this law, i.e. the Aliens Act, which introduces these consequences, the Constitutional Court has made it clear to you what the problem is and where the matter is unconstitutional. No, it's not related to the Government Act, but it's unconstitutional, the Constitution is above the law, Minister, I hope you know that. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that this National Assembly has already adopted measures, i.e. by regulation, which has been in previous law and is almost exactly the same as we have now, that these measures are disproportionate and that in order to such a restriction to the adoption of applications for international protection, the National Assembly should declare an emergency situation rather than a complex crisis. That's what's true. And please stop twisting and deceiving my words.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Prebil, it really doesn't make sense that I'm arguing with you here, because after all, you're a Member of Parliament, and you're kind of above the government. But the fact is, you've been saying that a complex crisis is not in our legislation. Listen to the magnetogram, listen to the magnetogram, and listen, and you'll say, we're introducing a new concept that is not in our legislation. That's what you said. All I did was read what was in the Government Act. Second thing, look. Nor is it true that the SDS did not support anything. This is where you made it up. The SDS supported the proposal to transfer power from the Government to the National Assembly. He also supported the SMC proposal for individual treatment. So this other thing isn't true that the SDS didn't support it. He also supported this on the board. However, he did not support the SMC proposal, and that is to say that it is decided by a qualified majority because we insisted that it is a sufficient majority. Look, what Mrs Sukič said, we will support the law, where it is now written in – given that the amendment has been adopted – that a qualified majority is needed. We'll support him in the SDS. No problem, qualified majority. But look, Mrs. Sukič, a complex crisis will be voted on by you, not by me. Here you will vote, in the National Assembly you will say. And you're reading to me, and now you're the one who's going to declare a complex crisis. No, you're going to announce it! Okay, maybe not personally, because you're going against it, but most of you in this national council are going to announce it. By the way, they already did it once; they already did it there in 2015. Do you know how many people were here at the border at the time? 300, 400 thousand migrant refugees – I apologize, not refugees. So it's not true that I want anything xenophobic. Now what you said I recognized myself in that. Yeah, you said that's the law we made. We prepared it at the Ministry, and I run the Ministry. Yes, how can I not recognize myself, if you say, that's the kind of marriage you've made, and I'm responsible for the drafting of this marriage, and you say that it's me. Yeah, I recognized myself perfectly. Based on your accusations, that's correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have another replica. Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	Minister, I don't know. It's too bad you're signing xenophobic laws if you don't think you're xenophobic. I can't help you. Look, there's something wrong. Since when does the xenophobic sign xenophobic laws for the first time I've heard. Another time. I hope you are going through a complex crisis that this will be a two-thirds majority. For the common majority, the common majority – excuse me, why do you persist in the general majority? I really want to know why you insist on the common majority. Do you think that Members and Members are not those who can judge when the situation is extraordinary enough to support a two-thirds or even 100 percent decision when the country is really threatened? Do you think we're all a little bit of analphabetes here and that only a coalition with its voter knows when and how and what? So you would like the coalition currently in power to decide on such a serious matter as a complex crisis. Do I get it right? Would you realize, though, that a two - thirds majority is needed to do so? Let me explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	Before we open a new round of applications, the minister has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	I'd just like to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Member, we insist, or, I would say, we have proposed a relative majority, that is not whole, absolute. On the basis of the SMC proposal, this has turned into an absolute majority, i.e. 46 Members, and we will support this in the SDS party. We're not going to support the two-thirds, but at least I'm not going to propose not to support it because we have experience. There you are sitting on the left side – as the minister, trompetengold said yesterday, or something like that, if I remember correctly – which you did nicely in our proposals to send an army to the border, and now you are all talking about how state-of-the-art you are and how there is no problem with how clear it is that you will support this. Well, you didn't! You didn't do it twice. No, I didn't press charges. [[advertising from the hall]] I understand you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. I'm asking you in the Chamber not to interfere with the Minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	Who am I accusing? Yes, the trompetengold said yesterday, and I thought [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Mr. Secretary, will you allow me to make order in the hall? Dear Members, Mrs Sukič, I ask you, if you will calm down, do not reach out or yell at the Chamber and do not interfere with the Minister's word. Sign up and counter him that way. Now, Mr. Minister, proceed if you are not finished. Are you done? Okay. Mrs Sukič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	I ask the President that, to the Minister, I don't suppose you can give him a reminder, but to remind him that he can't afford to attack Members and Members with expressions like they're trompetengold and I don't know what terrible things. And these are the messengers who have not even debated today: neither have they debated today, but have they attacked them. The fact that he's attacking me is pretty clear to me, because he's always attacking me, but this! Your Honor, I ask you to do something in accordance with the rules of this house, because this is a serious excess of arrogance and I don't know what else to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I take your procedural proposal for knowledge and, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to all those who participate in the meeting, to give a reminder, including to the representatives of the Government, so that this should be a reminder to the Minister to refrain from any insults in his deliberations, and this also applies to Members against the representatives of the Government. Mr Grimes has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	The leadership of the National Assembly has been literally scandalous for some time now. On one side — just a case from today — the dead coldly declares that we are xenophobic and another similar has fallen. I have warned you of this, I have suggested that a reminder be given. Nothing happened. On the other hand, someone uses one of the terms that was used yesterday in this national council, and this is why the circus is up to the sky. I'm sorry, the trompetengold is no insult, but it is xenophobic! It's Xenophobic, ladies and gentlemen. And those who have no idea, you use that expression like fascism, by the way, fascism is left-wing, if you don't know it. Xenophobia is a fear of strangers. Here we are talking about who we want to let into our country and under what conditions. The country is home to citizens and citizens. This is based on Article 3 of the Slovenian Constitution, which I quoted earlier. Once again, “Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens, based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination.” This was an article about which we reached total agreement in the first congregation, of which I was a member, the independent congregation. There was no doubt that this was the foundation of the Slovenian state. Today, apparently, such an article could no longer be adopted. This is the difference between you and those who were in the Slovenian Parliament 30 years ago. [[advertising from the hall]] Slovenian citizens and citizens have the right, all right, to tell who we want and under what conditions, just as every other country does with its own legal order. And there's nothing to argue with. We don't ask people to do anything they don't want us to do. Even less. For example, it is expected that after two years people will know the basics of Slovenian. You can't even give a role in Austria if you don't know basic German. Try it if you don't believe it! She's our neighbor. Are you going to say that she's xenophobic, that she's fascist, or what else are you going to say? Please stop using such expressions, and let us really talk about the solutions that are in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and which are in the interest of Slovenian citizens and citizens in ensuring all those rights arising from the Slovenian Constitution and the Slovenian acquis. And no right of anyone, no foreigner, can be over these rights. Let's at least get this straight, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. With all due respect, I have now patiently let you take advantage of your three minutes for a procedural proposal that you have not written down. I didn't track him in this debate, and I didn't want to interrupt you so you wouldn't tell me anything biased. Let me just explain; I called everyone in the hall and kindly warned us to refrain from any unnecessary comments that might hurt someone, not someone. However, I believe that we can all have a cultured dialogue together, both with government representatives and Members. I didn't set double criteria for one or the other. As far as your procedural proposal is concerned earlier, I was not in charge, and now it was your first procedural proposal, which was not. I'm really asking you to sign up for the debate next time. However, if you have procedural proposals regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure, of course, a three-minute dose of time for the Procedural Proposal is to do so. The word, if I'm not mistaken, the minister wanted it. No, no, no. Then I am opening a new round of applications because I see that there is still interest in the debate. Sign up, please. We've got five reported discussers. The first to receive the word, Mr Nik Prebil, is to prepare Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll be brief. I've made my point. We're at Articles 5 and 6. Since this is the beginning, it still allows for a slight more general discussion under this law. As such, the law can solve certain problems that have arisen over the years and definitely certain problems exist. I'll make that clear here. However, I always have a problem when the law comes before this national assembly, usually by the SDS, even now that the internal ministry is headed by Mr Aleš Hojs, because it does not follow this or to a large extent departs from what they say they are introducing this law. Minister, you said earlier that because of the implementation of the directive, namely the part that regulates, and this well regulates, the situation of students and those foreigners who come here on behalf of research, development and science. But these are two articles. But I don't understand why the novels of the law, respected, should not even be, but should be a new law, I don't know, on 400 pages of it all together almost, still the Law on International Protection. It introduces or regulates areas that are substantially wider than is necessary or are substantially wider than what is constitutionally permissible. Minister, you're not gonna say again that I said that this concept is not in the law. I told you the Constitution didn't know him. Article 92 provides only for war or emergency, but not for any complex crisis, and this article of the Constitution is above all laws, including the Government Act. This law on foreigners, that there will be no mistake because I believe that people are following us, regulating the situation of all foreigners; whether it is those coming from the South, whether they come from Sweden, the Netherlands, the United States or, I don't know, Morocco, Afghanistan or anywhere else. But I think it is clear to all the customers here that in Slovenia we are facing such a severe demographic that a foreign labour force is needed now and will continue to be needed. I agree that the law can determine what and under what conditions these foreigners can enter the country, reside here, live here and then apply for citizenship. However, in some part, due to any pressure or migratory wave, we sharpen the law in all areas, even in those where it is not necessary, you are somehow making the conditions for the arrival of these, the labour force and their families more difficult. And then again, I'm not going to talk about this article right now, because it's going to open. When we talk about family reunification, there will be many problems for those who are already in Slovenia and work here, including in many managerial positions and management functions. Last but not least, as far as I know, one of our largest pharmaceutical companies has a director who is a foreigner who temporarily resides here for the purpose of running this company, and there may be some problems in this work. To some extent, the law also regulates the area of integration. I, and also in LMŠ, have always spoken, even when we were in the government – among other things, respected Minister, this implementation of the directive, Minister Poklukar, has started and prepared it to the extent that you have now continued it, of course with many other articles – is polyintegration. This integration is more than necessary and we need to work on it more. However, this is not done by sharpening legislation, but by encouraging people, of course in the country, to become part of Slovenian society. I will conclude in the work that speaks of this complex crisis. I will no longer go to the field where this is written and where it does not say so, I will only go to the field, that, in my opinion, such an enforcement with all the consequences, which is also in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service – the Minister, as you said before, that everything has been adopted and determined, the Legal and Legal Service continues to warn that the provisions of this complex crisis are essentially general and meaningfully loose and do not specify how they interfere with the asylum system or the system of international protection. Thus, the article also interferes in one part with the field of international law, which can be disputed from the point of view of the General Court of the European Union. I can understand that some things are necessary. And here again, for the last time, I say that as long as these things are legal, as long as these things are clear and solve the actual problems that are, are welcome. However, if they enter into some field of sharpening ideology just to let you know that you have sharpened it, but there is no solution, then unfortunately I cannot agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško has the next word, Mr Andrej Chernigoj is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, it was my turn, because they were replicas, something was shooting at me all the time, but this is how I'm going to start. You've seen the culture of each individual in here for some time now. When one speaks, the other from the bench screams, but I won't go into it. But I think today you've settled this well that there was no need like two days ago when we even had to stop the session. I'll just stick to the articles. In Article 5, the term "complex crisis". Some on the left are not comfortable and therefore propose deleting this Article. Did the opposition or Levica forget that we had huge migrants at border crossings in 2015, 2016? I'm not gonna talk about the number because they're still coming. It is good that the borders are closed or are now open, but I believe they will be closed again for Slovenian citizens, and everyone else can walk across Kolpo, across Krk, not to say anywhere else. The problem is very sensitive, burning and controversial, especially for foreigners. Of course also for the various NGOs supported by some political parties. Article 32, freedom of movement, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the third paragraph, provides that the entry into and stay in the country may be restricted to foreigners on the basis of law. Let me also mention that refugees are not equal to economic migrants coming from safe countries where there is no war and come to us in a criminal way, with intrusion. Dear colleagues, we had a good case when the minister couldn't go across the border. Tell me what would happen if one of the Members, the other one, were to go across the border to black, and we would get it somewhere in Bosnia or Croatia. Would you put him in an asylum center? The media would ask for all of us, and the media would write about all of us, and God knows where we'd be taken. In the case of Article 35 in the Slovenian National Party, we strongly oppose the deletion of this Article. I don't know what you want. Are you trying to give us a ride? So we don't speak Slovenian anymore? It is very important that the condition of Slovenian language knowledge is introduced at entry level A1 and at base level A2. What is more integrity than that if foreigners come to us in Slovenia, they know at least the basics of the Slovenian language so that they do not communicate with the pantomime because no one understands them. Although what Mr. Hojs said earlier, I told Kangler the same thing if I went to Austria, Germany. And he said, you know what, because up and up the Danube and up, the Balkans usually do that and talk like that. This is where Kangler got one minus with me. If I'm going to Austria, I'm going to have to speak German. If I'm going to England, I'm going to have to speak English. It is true that we were in Brussels, Helsinki, with our colleague Niko and I, but we happened to run into one of the taverns when our colleague from Serbia was serving us at the end, and we had a good time in there. But to enter this border and there to talk, we had to have their language. They must also know Slovenian culture, which in recent days, what is happening in here, respected colleagues, there is no culture in Slovenia; I have already said this and I will now tell you publicly, once again. It's not Minister Vasko Simoniti's fault, because I don't believe he went through the ministry to wait and write things up there, but he didn't undress outside the culture department and leave his stuff behind. They were culturers because “ka” did not get enough money. Or they got it, or they hit it out because of their second palate. Look, they have to socialize, integrate into our space, the environment, not to be adapted to them, worship them and similar things. In the Slovenian National Party we are directly appalled, outraged at the fact that we need translators in health homes, primary schools and elsewhere. At our home, Posavje, in Krška, they wanted to have an Albanian translator in the elementary school. Someone comes to the health care home who has a medical card here and says, "Look, this is my father, he doesn't have a card, put it on my account." [[advertising from the hall]] In Krske, mate. You're close to me, you're close to me there, so you know we have a lot of these residents. I'm not gonna talk about everyone. Determined. Then what is it? Where are we going? We're taking the Sava down to Zagreb. All right, now that the hydro power plants are there, the nuclear plant is there because a little bit of everything stops. In Article 66 – of course, we are also against this Article being deleted. We are inclined to define more clearly the illegal residence of foreigners in the country, because the police will be able to directly enforce the decisions of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their statement. Our police are competent enough, qualified and competent enough to finally make order in this country, even though I feel like they're still too small. Even the idea of Tacen being cut off was set for a three-month tralkurs, and after the turkeys were walking around Slovenia, they were cops. Cops are the ones who made the cadet school, not that three-month-old schnoll. Those at the time were so happy, there really was enough money available and good wages at the police station. And of course, hops, let's go! Three months of schnapps, we're cops, and then they'd fuck around on the road all the time. Come in. The fact that the powers of the police are being extended, as far as the seizure of other items is concerned, apart from the seized items for assault and self-infliction, does not seem to us to be at all controversial. Sanctions for foreigners must be increased and we also support a more stringent police surveillance measure. But I'm going to do something else for the following articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Andrej Chernigoj, preparing a mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to make a little bit of such an introduction into the general debate, which is allowed here also in the initial articles, but before I begin, I would like to say that I have been present since the very beginning of the point, so to speak, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Aliens Act. But when I listened to all my previous debates and debaters, I am always more aware that we want to mix two laws in this stream; that is to say, and the Law on Foreigners on International Protection, which is the next point. That doesn't feel right to me, and I think it's mixing apples and pears. Let's do it in a row. I must say that this law on foreigners, which has also been by the coalition for a long time in coordination, and I must say that this is a step forward for us, although I must admit that a smaller step than we have wanted in New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, but we are pleased that we have made a consensus and moved the matter forward on the basis of coalition coordination. It's just commendable here. If we just look at the Foreigners Act, let's say it's documentation, not all of it, but from the last board, if I may put it that way. I must say that in New Slovenia – and I am sure, even in coalition lines – we have devoted a great deal of time to this law, there has been a huge discussion, huge for and against, and we have exhausted the best possible version that was possible under a coalition agreement. That's what I was going to say, that statement I was going to make at the beginning. I now find that this debate is in fact – not to offend my colleague, my colleagues, I will not be very grave with words, because you know me, but is free after Prešeren. At this point of the replica, at least in my personal opinion, the replicas are not replicas, but discussions, so the 70th Article of the Rules of Procedure is here for decoration only today. The hard words spoken on the left hand side must say that I am sorry, they have nothing to look for in this hall – that we are the ones who support and support this law, xenophobic. Especially from a person who thinks of herself as a culturer, I would expect to find a thousand different ways not to personally insult me with such a, really hard word. But I believe there's a problem here if this person doesn't want to, on the one hand, and on the other hand, he doesn't know. That's what we're gonna find out. Secondly, what I see is that we are going very wide at this point, that at this point – and of course not only here in the hall, but also in the debate on the committee – we have a book promotion, including the agenda of one party to be in Croatia, although I do not think this is the place for this conversation, that in Croatia the wrongs of these persons are done. Today we are talking about this law and I would like to have a discussion, a discussion based on which article is good or not. Of course, I understand the agenda of a party, which is why maybe I will go a little wider, and I will just remind you, although the piece is also related to this, I remind you that Belgium, I think four days ago was celebrating, it's hard to celebrate, had the fifth anniversary of the victims of the attacks in Brussels. I have been there myself, and I must say that the memories of these events are still alive, because a few hours earlier, I was in Brussels myself. I really don't want what happened on Maelbeek, on the subway or even in the Maelbeek district, where I didn't hope to go back here after ten hours alone, so that it wouldn't happen again here in Europe. I agree with colleagues and colleagues who mentioned in previous discussions that in 2015 we had a unique event in Slovenia that we were not used to, it was a sort of crisis event for me, but I am sad that some parties see this crisis only as a visit to Slovenia or the European Union. Here, our opinion is diametric. I know that citizens and citizens in Illyrian Bistrica agree with me that this was a crisis event and they no longer want this crisis event. In addition, I would like to tell you, although the numbers are getting smaller, I must say that in Illyrian Bistrica it is growing steadily also in these January, February months. Now I'm going to the law. I would say so; Slovenia, with these small changes in fact, is somehow raising some standards in this area, but even though we are raising up here, these measures are still one of the nicest measures in the European Union. I have also met with various NGOs and I have asked them a clear question; when/if this law is adopted, is there one, two, three countries in the European Union that will have nicer measures than Slovenia has. Do you know what happened then? It was all quiet. There was silence in the hall. But in the end, I was still the ugly one. Now let's go back to the law itself. The European Commission itself has drawn up a common migration policy to deal with the refugee crisis, which would enable Europe to take advantage of the benefits of increasing cross-border mobility and to address the problems encountered. This is said, too, the European Commission notes that there are problems in this area. The German Presidency has seen the problem and migration and other problems have begun to resolve. Under the leadership of Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission presented a new migration and asylum package. So, we're not the only ones saving this. In addition, in this legislation, in the Foreign Act, we implement several European regulations into Slovenian legislation. Here is “a set of new types of uniform residence and work permits and temporary residence permits, namely a single residence permit for the purpose of seeking employment and self-employment for a researcher who has completed research work in the Republic of Slovenia and for a student who has completed studies in the Republic of Slovenia at a higher or higher education institution” and so on and so on. [[…]] One party in this National Assembly forgets this part of the implementation of European regulations into Slovenian legislation. What's nice is, for some of the harder ones, it's worth mentioning. Then I would like to stop at these articles, where in Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats wanted more progress, but because of consensus there was no consensus, and this is precisely in the knowledge of the Slovenian language. I myself have experience in Austria, Germany; a child, if he does not know almost very well German, cannot go to primary school. We're all aware of that in this hall. Those who work in Slovenia and prepare to move soon to Germany, their children, their wives without problem attend a German language course. Not once a week, as much as possible. They'll take more lessons if possible, if they can afford it. But let us be clear when someone comes to Slovenia and expresses an interest in work, he does not need to know Slovenian and this is also happening now and this will not change with amendments to the Aliens Act. That's not gonna change. We have two minor corrections, and here I will say, “by proposing a change, a condition of knowledge of Slovenian language is introduced at the entry level of A1”. [[…]] This is very far from C1, as it is in Germany. A1! “under the common European language framework for the extension of the temporary residence permit on the grounds of family reunification and the condition of knowledge of Slovenian language at basic level A2 under the common European language framework for the authorisation of permanent residence on the basis of the five-year continuous legal residence of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia.” [[…]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! These are some basic standards that any country in this world can have; that when you come to a country, you may require language skills after a period of time. We are not the most rigorous in Slovenia. What did I mention about, say, the German country or the Austrian country? I do not think there will be any crisis here, so that there will be no shortage of workers, but I think the knowledge of the Slovenian language will be enriched. If I am wrong, I would really ask someone in this esteemed hall to correct me and explain to me that I am wrong and convince me otherwise. I could still go on here. I will leave some time for a possible further discussion on the articles. As we are now at Article 6, I would say that I support the amendment of the government or coalition. In Article 10b, in the first paragraph, the word “government” will be replaced by the words “State Assembly”. Thus, we will be decision makers here in this national assembly in this area. I would also like to take this opportunity because I am already speaking, because then I will not use all-powerful replicas, and I also support Article 15, which amends Article 33, paragraph 3, adequate health insurance and so on. To conclude, my colleagues and colleagues, I would ask only one thing; let us be very exact in our words. I'll give you two cases. There have been many mentions here, and the law is constitutionally controversial. It bothers me very much. I also wanted to study law, but then I decided something else. But please, fellows, don't be populism here, but let's also take care of the truth of the words in legal terms. Not to say, the law is constitutionally disputed, if you want, I will help you: “I think the law violates this and therefore I think that the Constitutional Court will decide that it is not in accordance with the Constitution.” But I would agree with this vocabulary. Regarding the constitutional code, I was looking for this book. The marines would say, "Bleech," but I've never seen her before. But I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues here if they know. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Before I give the replica, I'm just going to explain the evidence of the replicas so far. I think that the 70th Article of the Rules of Procedure is, however, very consistent, as much as it respects, because it is necessary to know that in the replica, the debater is the one who determines whether or not someone has understood it. I now assume that Mrs Natasa Sukic estimates that she has not been properly understood. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Respected! This person, that's what I'm saying, I'm gonna use the replica. So, according to the Member, I'm going to abuse the replica because apparently the replicas aren't something anymore because it's allowed here. I'm just gonna say I don't mix pears and apples. Member, you do not understand the cause and effect and the interrelationship of the Foreigners Act and the International Protection Act. Obviously. For what is written in the Law on Foreigners will also affect applications for international protection. In fact, if we trigger this mechanism of complex crisis, it will have very significant consequences, which are of course constitutionally controversial. And constitutional controversy is not something you don't say, it's different if you say it's unconstitutional to say it's unconstitutional. That it may be decided by the Constitutional Court in a non-constitutional manner. That something is constitutionally controversial, the Legal and Legislative Service speaks, and we use this term by Members when we refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or when we refer to an opinion, say, external experts who give us this opinion. The constitutional lawyers in our country are currently assessing that these provisions are very controversial here, and here I have referred to already one judgment of our Constitutional Court, which has judged in this way in a similar case. Now, after this new legislation, the police at the border — beware — have determined whether or not a foreigner is at risk and could, by decision, reject his intention to apply for international protection. Imagine! The police, who are not qualified at all to do so, will be able to smoothly reject people who will not be able to express their intention at all, and this is constitutionally controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Branko Grimes has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janez Moskritch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Thank you. When we talk about these things, we need to be aware that we are talking about them because mass abuse is taking place. Mass abuse is now characterised both by mass migration under the law and by legal migration as well as by illegal migration. For both of us, we meet organized groups that serve this; they serve with the suffering of people, those who come, and those who have harmful consequences in the country's goal, in a given case in Slovenia. It's both inhuman. Whoever defends it and defends it, this one defends crime, it must be said very clearly. We're talking about illegalities and irregularities here. We have talked about this many times before, who wants to be further informed, to look at what you have presented as positive also from the opposition several times, as we have said in the city council in Kranj, and to make suggestions and send them to Ljubljana in this regard. What was then a surprise is when I said I was the author of everything. I made proposals and defended them in the city council and virtually everything was unanimously confirmed, with the exception of one decision proposing restrictions on immigration. That one had only two votes against, and everyone else was in favour. So much so that, in the city council in Kranj, we can talk more normally about people being more nation-friendly than in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this is really interesting information, and then, on this basis, give good suggestions, because you have commended them yourself. And then there's flossules, like xenophobia in connection with a complex crisis, if that's a reflection of fear of strangers. Xenophobia means panicking or absolute fear of strangers. A complex crisis, ladies and gentlemen, would have occurred if the country had to use this as a self-protection measure. This is essentially about self-defense. Whoever doesn't understand it doesn't understand the right to self-defense. The right to self-defence is an indiscreet individual and concerns the country as a whole. The State has the right to protect itself if there is any illegality which then has a significant impact on its functioning. It is even obliged to do so in order to protect its citizens and citizens. She's bound to do it, ladies and gentlemen! You also find it difficult to understand what happened at that time in the Constitutional Court, that there was so much ideological left-wing power that most voted to repeal that provision. I had previously warned that this was the greatest scandal in the history of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and you said how you could say that. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what I said, that's what Boštjan M. Zupančič said and Dr. Klemen Jakič, who also gave a negative opinion in this matter and so on and so on. The most prominent constitutional lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia have declared this scandal. Why? Because, first and foremost, fundamental rights must be guaranteed to all and, first of all, to citizens and citizens. As I pointed out earlier, the Constitution must be understood as a whole and it is good to know it. Slovenia is a democratic republic, Slovenia is the legal and social state of all its citizens and citizens, based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. Only in this light are the first three or the first two provisions sown in the right light. Slovenia is therefore a democratic Republic of all its citizens and citizens, not foreigners. It needs to be understood how it works. So, a stranger is a guest here, a welcome guest, in compliance with the conditions and regulations our country has, but there is no master here. That's the whole point of this story, and that's what we're really talking about. The country, simply put, is the home in which we live Slovenian citizens and citizens, and this is by way of a stop. Thank God this article is in the constitution; today, as I have already said, we would obviously no longer be able to accept it by a two-thirds majority in this House. Once upon a time, we did. This means that he lives in a home, but he who enters must respect the one who lives here, adjust to him, respect his principles, rules, values, traditions. It's called integration, ladies and gentlemen. You too have a lot to say about integration. The first and fundamental principle of integration is knowledge of Slovenian language. Because Slovenia is founded on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination; it is said that the Slovenian nation is inherently linked to statehood. There can't be one without the other. And first and foremost, what the Slovenian people make up, is the Slovenian language. This is just about expecting a stranger to live here to learn the basics of the Slovenian language. This requirement is so minimal, it's embarrassing to tell me this. Compared to neighbouring countries, but you know how much more acute legislation you have in this area, say, Austria and Germany. Do you know that? And there you can't ask for any right if you don't have a certificate, but not just an A1, you have to get to C1, and you have to get to something else when it comes to staying longer. It is called integration in the truth, and only in this direction is this law prepared. So, in the direction of self-protection and, on the other hand, in the direction of integration. This should be the point where there would be total agreement, and obviously there is no. Why? Because I said the point at first, if we're packing it anyway, what's going on with this legislation and what's going on right now. One is the desire to give total and totalitarian advantage to foreigners over their own citizens and citizens, and the other is to give priority to your own. Not to raise them up. I don't know what kind of pedestal. No, but they can't be aliens over their citizens, over their rights. He can't be at any point in any way. This is also what the Slovenian Constitution requires, so I have quoted it several times; only the Constitution needs to be understood as a whole. If, after you have advocated the right of the nation to act in self-defense to protect the interests of every individual, woman, child, their personal integrity, security, human well-being — that is justice! To deal with xenophobia then, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, the worst racism is hatred of its own people. It's an unforgivable fact. First, you must realize all that is written in the Constitution for your citizens and citizens. That's why we're here because the Constitution binds us all and everyone. The Constitution, once again, as a whole, not only do you draw one point out that just suits you, but you need to understand and see as a whole. And that's the legal framework we're in. From this point of view, these solutions, which are here, are appropriate, are good and beneficial. They're a step in the right direction. I would like this step to be bigger, but it is the result of compromises. In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to the untruth, totally, which was previously said when it came to the competence of transferring the complex crisis to the National Assembly. We've all supported this, ladies and gentlemen, all of us. The only difference was that some did it with a fig in their pocket and then went to introduce the quorum. What does it mean to introduce a quorum into an absolute or even a two-thirds majority? That means you make one point that can take you to a roadblock. It's done on purpose. And that it's not just a theory that it can lead to a blockade, you've proved yourself to be the one who advocates it. When it came to the question that the Slovenian Armed Forces would give only limited police powers to exercise their mission and protect the Slovenian borders, you have already voted against it twice. Now the foreign police will come, the foreign people will come to the Slovenian borders, but it will be better. Instead of allowing their own to realize what is their fundamental mission, because the fundamental mission of the Slovenian Army is to protect integrity in order to protect our borders. This isn't directed at anyone. Who says it's xenophobia, people of God? Why do you lock your apartment at home? And I said, the country is our home together. Not because you would hate all those who are out there, but because you love those who live in your house. That is why adequate protection is needed and we are doing so today with these two laws, and these two laws are a step in the right direction for interest, for the protection of Slovenians and Slovenes, Slovenians, Slovenian citizens and citizens, all citizens and citizens living here, in accordance with the principles of the legal order of the Slovenian Constitution and all other elements that need to be taken into account. Even what some people don't like to hear is that things have changed a lot in Europe and today this policy of all open borders is no longer on average, all for everyone who should walk up and down and requires some fictitious rights at the expense of others, because that is what someone pays. This is no longer the case, it has quietly begun to leave two, three years ago and is becoming more and more deserted. Thank God that is so, because there is something to know, with these massive migrations comes radical Islam. It's not a problem in an individual or in a nation or I don't know, in a caste like some of you wanted to show it. The problem is that radical Islam acts like cancer and radicalizes its own and then puts pressure on others, and when that happens, things get mixed up in a big conflict. This has been everywhere and, of course, Europe is not immune to it. Radical Islam is a terrible problem. Remember that Europe has developed its uniquely unique civilization and its essence, human rights, all that seems to us to be self-evident, which is an integral part of this civilization, European civilization, only because it has resisted radical Islam with weapons. And history is to learn from it. Today it is not about weapons, but it is about laying down the rules of the game that lead to the fact that the guest must respect our rules and if he wants to live here, he must follow the steps of integration, which is the only thing normal and is also, if you want, a European norm.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I promise to speak strictly about Article 5; it is said that this Article 5 is deleted. This Article 5 is quite extensive, the whole side of the A4 format. Allow me to continue to emphasise the 32nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that the right to restrict movement by law can also be introduced for the purpose of ensuring public order, this is repeatedly omitted from certain parties, not only because of infectious diseases and the defence of the country, but also because of a separate third paragraph, which says that foreigners can be allowed to enter and stay in the country under law. We have before us the Aliens Act, amendment, supplementation and this Article 5 of these amendments refers to a new Article 10a. What does this article, whose left hand and some want to delete, say? The first paragraph speaks of the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs monitoring the situation in the area of migration – what is the issue? Non-members are also called non-members in cooperation with Member States of other countries and also third countries. That's the first paragraph, a quick summary. The third paragraph, that the Government may propose to the National Assembly that, by a majority of all votes, 46 be identified as a so-called complex crisis in the field of migration. This complex crisis has already taken place in Europe, and some countries today also have a fence. To avoid a complex crisis or any other crisis. There has already been a crisis at the borders of Europe, and there will be more. However, it probably does not mean that tomorrow the government will announce, make a request, or when the law comes into force, that it will just come into force with the proposal. It is likely that he is still in charge of matters, as it is also important that citizens know that the Government, the current government, is monitoring this situation. Maybe more precisely than the previous governments did. The fifth paragraph is important and the sixth paragraph is important. It is said that the Government reports monthly on the implementation of this law to the National Assembly. This has been quite released, not specifically stressed. It is said that these are very precise rules which have been aligned with more than 46 votes, if I may say so, and paragraph 6 even speaks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia informing the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Secretary-General of the United Nations Organization and the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees and the European Commission. So nothing can happen without a really broader dialogue, consensus and so on. This is this Article, which some, notably in Levica, would have proposed, deleted. These are key elements to establish a somehow correct approach to resolving the problem that has already been a problem in this country and that governments, not the government of Janez Janša, and other governments, have already met and have solved the problem in terms of what they knew and knew at that moment. So the article is an excellent and serious mistake would be to delete it, because then we're going back to a situation where we don't know who's drinking, who's paying. Whether this country will intervene now, the real state is within the meaning of the Government or within the meaning of the National Assembly. This provides for a clear protocol in cooperation with the whole, called the European Union, which we are part of. So I absolutely don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this round of debaters. I ask if anyone else wants a word. If not, I conclude the debate on these amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. There's no interest in debate. I'm closing it. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. It was Mr. Nick Pretzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. We are proposing an amendment to Article 50, which is different from the amendment tabled by Levica, on a matter which I have already pointed out on the Working Body's Home Committee, which is only a part of the provision which is one of the legitimate grounds for complacency. We agree that if the offence is committed, it is also punishable by law, of course. We believe, however, that this simply follows the Slovenian legal order as well as internationally does not fall under complacency. Such an offence does not have any causal link to a greater danger of a foreigner escaping. Last but not least, Minister, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, which has made it clear that, according to the legal provisions and provisions in force in the international space, violations of public order and peace cannot constitute grounds for indifference on the basis of which a foreigner could be deprived of his liberty. Therefore, as we say, we propose that only this part, which I really do not judge, I hope that we agree with this, is also deleted from the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. No interest, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. I'm concluding, too. I am putting to the debate Article 66 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. No interest, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 103a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate. That's what we used up the amendments. They will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the International Protection Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Aleš Hojs, for further explanation of the bill. And I'm asking you to use the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members! Let me briefly present again the figures that I have already presented throughout the adoption of this law. Since 2015, the number of those seeking international protection, or those seeking international protection, has been rising in Slovenia. So, while only 277 applications were submitted in 2016, in 2018 there were already two thousand 875 applications, for about a thousand 399, no, for a thousand 399 more than in 2017 – that is more than 96 percent more – in 2019 there were already 3 000 821, which is a good 30 percent more than the year before. It is true, however, that in 2020, in view of the state of the epidemic, which has been applied for slightly less, that is, 3 000 548. If we compare this with the year before, that is 3 000 821 in 2019 and 3 000 548 in 2020, and if we take into account the epidemic of course, we can actually talk about the unchanged number of applications. In 2020, the majority of applications for international protection, i.e. more than half of which were submitted by Moroccan citizens to 226 Afghanistan 751, Pakistan 498 and Algeria 308. Interestingly, most of these countries are not on the list of any problematic issues. So it's actually about people who take advantage of international protection, even though it's clear that they're not refugees, but they're working migrants or people who just want to live better. In 2020, 87 applications were resolved positively, 215 were rejected, and everyone else disappeared. So they did not wait until the end of the process of obtaining international protection. What are the main intentions, or desires, of this law, or of amending and supplementing the law? First, of course, to ensure swift and effective international protection procedures to address the shortcomings that have proved to be key in the implementation of these provisions in practice; to provide for appropriate sanctions for those who, of course, exploit international protection procedures. So they do not take into account that they are actually protecting them, but in their cases they are violating the rules of both accommodation and procedures when they obtain international protection and all other matters. So it is that we have foreseen appropriate sanctions for these people. Then also allowing what was essentially suspended in the previous law — unfortunately, to the detriment of the State — is the possibility of re-appealing the court. We have done a rather broad analysis where we have found that in the proceedings before the Administrative Court, the State has largely withdrawn briefly, so that it has not had the possibility of judicial protection, and that is why this is being reintroduced. And, of course, alignment with the acquis of the European Union, where certain shortcomings have been identified in the transposition of the procedural directive. If I focus on the most important things. Already in existing legislation, we have the opportunity to reject a request as unfounded if it turns out that the person requesting international protection deliberately destroys a document or intentionally loses a document or something like that – so it is clear that he will do so in order to avoid something. Then, in this law, we are also extending this matter to the point that it can also be seen that it has already left the country of origin on purpose without documents. In addition, a very important point is that it is possible to identify directly, is to immediately identify or send someone who is obviously not a minor to a medical examination to determine whether he is a minor or not, which is of course very important in that these matters have proved to be very problematic – that is to say, the play of these matters. And certain restrictions on the movement, which I have already said are linked to the infringements committed by asylum-seekers. As it is said, of course, it is also possible to lodge a complaint with the Supreme Court. In the end, I propose that, in accordance with Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the proposal of this Act be made at this meeting under the conditions of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. However, since I do not see the President, we will not read the presentation of the report. We're moving on. Since the 22nd meeting held a general debate on the bill proposal, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest. I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have two reported discussers. First, Mrs Natasa Sukić gets the word, then Mr Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will, of course, explain our amendment to Article 4, but I will initially be a little wider so that we can somehow enter into this matter that we are currently dealing with. It could be concluded from the very name of the law that it is a law providing international protection for all those in need of such protection for persecution in their home countries. Sadly, though, when you read this proposal, you see that more than international refugee protection, this law or bill provides for ways to prevent or make it as difficult as possible for applicants or refugees to come to this international protection. Otherwise, I have to say that this is not a new one, that this country has been doing very well for 25 years, but this has not come exclusively with this government, it has to be recognised, because in all these years our country has recognised the international protection of only 989 people. In the 25s, Your Honor! However, since these figures are clearly too high for this country or are currently too high for the ruling coalition, this bill further exacerbates the conditions for obtaining and maintaining the status of international protection. In doing so, it is clearly the main motive for us to grant as few status as possible, not to be a motive to check whether these people really need such status. And this case, which I mentioned earlier, of the Democratic Republic of Congo, who was raped, where rape was used as a military tool, this citizen returns to his country of origin no matter what fate awaits her there. This is how we understand, obviously, in this country the concept of who needs and what international protection is. Under the previous governments, these things were a little bit more entangled in cellophane, but under this government, it's all a little more straightforward. For if not otherwise, we can understand this from certain media that are in orbit of the largest ruling coalition party, namely the SDS, namely the Nove24 and others, where racism and this escalation or the promotion of fear of foreigners are openly promoted. The explanation states that this is a trend towards an increase in the number of requests at European Union level, and this is not true, of course, because data show a decline in the number of applications after 2015. Only in 2019 did this increase slightly, but it fell again in 2020. So this is an eccentric lie in the very explanation attached to this bill. It is crucial that the number of requests for various reasons is therefore not increasing, which means that only for this reason is there really no need to tighten the conditions. This is what the European Union notes and, of course, the Slovenian government should know, but it is delusional that it does not know them or know them, but is not interested. It is much more political opportunistic, of course, to scold the border dwellers, where migrants are forced to illegally cross the state border, to arouse fear in people and thereby somehow spread this propaganda, which I said earlier, is xenophobic and which caused some to be offended here. Unfortunately, in this way, it is almost criminalising not only applicants for international protection, but, as is evident from the proposal of this law, also consultants for refugees, because they are supposed to need a security check after this proposal, and it is not clear what all this security check should cover. It is also not clear which authority will be responsible for the security inspection and how this verification will be carried out. The proposal thus contains neither the procedure nor the content of the security check. It is also unclear from the proposal whether an individual with the results of the security check will be informed. The fact is, however, that the fugitive advisors, after this proposal, have already submitted a certificate of impunity, which should be fully satisfactory. And there is no reason in fact that they should be further checked, as if the few days were members of a criminal association, along with the applicant for international protection, who is trying to falsify the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also provides that the Minister, for example, may also resolve the refugee adviser if it is found that the counsellor is aware of the true identity of the applicant. Where he has the applicant's identification documents, he shall be aware of the actual age of the applicant if he claims to be a minor or whether he is aware of the facts on the basis of which the applicant is not entitled to refugee or subsidiary protection status and shall not inform the competent authority thereof. Of course, that's unacceptable. Why? The duty of protection of professional secrecy is the same as that of lawyers. I repeat, therefore, that counsellors for refugees, as well as lawyers, are bound by the obligation to protect professional secrecy. Article 6 of the Law on Lawyers discusses this. The Refugee Adviser shall provide legal assistance to his client, including representation of that party in judicial proceedings. Its role is therefore essential in the exercise of the right to judicial protection, the right to a remedy and guarantees of fair proceedings. Its duty is to protect this secrecy, and this is the basis of a confidential relationship between the refugee adviser and his party, which intertwines all aspects of privacy, from general to spatial, communication and informational. The adviser shall protect his right to privacy in the professional field and the State shall not be intruding on that right. And all these additional requests for legal advisers thus point in this bill to the relationship of the current government, not this country, but the current governments to the people who, like lawyers, are doing their job. But of course all of this is really connected to the attitude of this government — not this country, but this government — to the refugees. In fact, it's all connected. Someone's gonna say again that I'm mixing pears and apples, but I'm not. Things are very connected. In fact, why should we tighten our relationship with counselors? To make life miserable for those who ask for international protection. Slovenia's markedly poor attitude towards refugees is, unfortunately, also evident from the recent judgment of the Italian court, which rejected – beware, refused – the deportation of a Pakistani refugee to Slovenia, despite the Dublin Regulation, because of the danger that this person would be dealt with in Slovenia in contravention of fundamental humanitarian principles and contrary to the provisions of Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights of the European Union. Very fair and also very sad. The Court of Justice even states in its judgment that "in this case, it seems that the applicant in Slovenia seems to be subject to inhuman and degrading behaviour justified". It is known and documented that the police extradite the refugees covered in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and have not allowed them to submit an application for international protection to Croatia, although it is generally known that Croatia has already been warned that it treats refugees violently and inhumanly. This is the last time I've told you this story, and I'm not going to repeat myself today. There are documented cases in the Black Paper file on so-called pushbacks, where there are about a thousand cases of isolated cases of these horrifying practices. And Slovenia knows that. You know that. The fact is that even now, even before we adopt this new acute legislation, most of Slovenia's applications for international protection are in fact rejected and refugees are constantly being sent a message that they are not wanted. The rejection of an application for international protection cannot, of course, be the fault of the fugitive, but this is largely the fault of the State, which violates the basic right of refugees through international conventions to apply for international protection and to be protected when, and we have seen, they come from countries where they are also threatened with death or torture or inhumane conduct. For example, a citizen of the Democratic Republic of Congo was subjected to this and yet the state of Slovenia is returning to where it is served literally after life. Unfortunately, Slovenia is implementing its legislation, which is increasingly tightening, and also living standards in asylum homes somehow, I can say, almost preventative war against refugees. The purpose, simply, of the current governments is, in fact, to abolish international protection for these people. This is also very eloquently evident from the institute of the introduction of a complex crisis, which, of course, appeared in the law that we have previously dealt with. And although some say that these two marriages are not related, unfortunately they are still connected. Because with this institution of complex crisis, if this were to happen, it would actually allow the government to mass rejection of refugees at the border, without even having the opportunity or the opportunity to ask for international protection – what is going on in silence all the time – and, of course, this government would just like to legitimize its actions. Because Pushbacks are actually happening, mass and in fact, the refugee returns chainedly from Slovenia to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on. So do not say that this is not true, there are documented testimony – and you are just looking for a way to legitimize it, in fact there are many media reports that you don't like, because everything that the media write, which you don't like, condemn as if the media are guilty, you never take responsibility for anything – and the testimony of respected international NGOs that you don't like. It is better not to mention the word medium or non-governmental organization, because I will immediately falsify them and hear them again, probably, about Metelk 6 and about the Peace Institute in the undertone, in the subtext – right? Because the Peace Institute is a thorn in your heel. The fifth thorn, however, is because in all its years of existence it has carried out extremely high-quality and in-depth studies and analyses on developments not only in the field of migration but also on other aspects and on other vulnerable social groups, including the Roma. Come on, Minister! See Can you, Madam President? [[…]] There's something gesticulating about the minister here again. Unseemly, well, indeed! You're disturbing me in the middle of a debate, Minister. When you talk, I'll let you talk. In short, many refugees and asylum seekers, or for international protection, have already testified that in many cases the Slovenian police ignored their applications for international protection. Some have literally said that there is no asylum in Slovenia. So, by amending this legislation, the Government, as I said, wants to turn its illegal conduct, as defined by international law, into lawful conduct and, of course, to all international conventions and universal human rights. I have also listed these international conventions to you in the first debate, so I will not repeat myself. Of course, there are more bizarre solutions in the marriage, and I may comment on other articles. In short, we propose in Levica that Article 4 relating to the appointment of refugee advisers and all of these conditions, as described earlier, be simply deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The Law on International Protection, which is actually the next part of the Foreigners Act I spoke of earlier, is the part where this law is fully respected when a foreigner merely expresses his intention and does not need to say that he wants protection, but to express his intention of international protection, the whole treatment of his procedure is left to this law. And it is a law that is made on the basis of some international standards, a law that is made on the basis of the European asylum procedure and which we must also apply to a certain extent to the European legal order and also to a number of conventions which Slovenia has also signed under fundamental rights. Whether we are dividing ourselves into the right political option, or the left political option, or the central political option, the fact is that this law before us makes it somewhat difficult to access asylum and introduces some additional legal basis. Most likely some minor changes are necessary in view of the fact that, if I may say so, economic migration and the transition, which is intended only for transit to a foreign country for the purpose of performing work, is largely misused, as the procedures stop prematurely and do not end. Here I can agree that perhaps one part of the solution is needed. Again, as with the previous law, this government, under the leadership of Minister Aleš Hojs, introduces certain matters which are controversial, which are also contrary to something that is valid at European level. One of the more disturbing things, at least for me, was the shortening of the time limit for a complaint from 8 to 3 days, including by courts or lawyers to point out that the time limits should not be so short as judicial protection is one of the fundamental constitutional rights and thus is restricted or violated. Now this article is unfortunately closed, and I will no longer let myself in on this matter. However, I will talk about Article 4, the amendment that we have tabled in the LMŠ and we also propose here deleting the provision, and in this part the provision remains; namely, that the confidentiality situation between the fugitive counsellor and the party, namely, this relationship is the same as that of the lawyer and his client, constitutes a non-compliance with the obligation to protect professional secrecy and the counsellors of the force, or requires them to violate the law – that is, another law, not that – and act to the detriment of their clients. I think this is a matter of marital disharmony and we are somehow proposing that this article be deleted entirely. I believe that some confidentiality between a client and a lawyer, counsellor, however, is one that is, we might say, holiness in these professions, and, finally, trust between a doctor and a patient is based on the fact that only in exceptional cases, when determined by a court, such confidentiality can be terminated. For this reason, I believe that the part which provides for the need for refugee advisers to clarify or tell exactly all the secrets disclosed by the party is based on some non-compliance, both with the legislation we already have in the legal field and with the provisions set out in the Constitution and also with the provisions set out in international legal acts. And, as it is said, in the LMŠ we propose deleting Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Since I see there's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first gets the word, Mr Andrej Černigoj, is being prepared by Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing at this point the amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection. The debate was very thorough and long already on the committee itself. We in New Slovenia are happy that this step has taken place, we are happy that we can also have a long debate, we can start a debate and, I must say, a very productive debate in the coalition managed to agree. We in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats take this reconciliation as a small step forward, smaller than we wanted, but we are very pleased to take this step forward; and in particular, we will ensure less infringements. Let me begin by saying that the aim of the amendments and the addition of the bill is to further align with the European acquis by addressing individual shortcomings in the transposition of the European Directive. That's just for starters. However, if we return to the International Protection Act itself, the existing law already regulates the possibility of refusing an application for international protection as manifestly unfounded in the accelerated procedure, if the applicant clearly fails to fulfil the conditions and is given one of the legitimate reasons. That's what's already going on. We in the coalition have proposed that it be complemented here – with a view to preventing abuse is taken into account in the determination whether in a particular case there is a valid reason for the applicant to leave the country of origin without a personal document. I have a personal experience here. In Illyrian Bistrica, which is one of the rare municipalities where illegal migrants still come in larger numbers than last year, we have often found personal documents in various streams, roads, ditches, we say grabbing. And we were surprised. And that's why I think that no person, even though a lot of people may have a hard life, goes from their own home or without money or without a personal document. Believe me, that's the way it is. As a result, we are very happy about this correction. The second thing we welcome in New Slovenia is that there is no adequate legal basis in the law in force to limit the movement of applicants, even if there is no doubt a danger. We very much agree with that. One piece of information – that all those people who play an international role, I think more than 80% of them will then escape. As a result of this word that the majority of applicants are refused international protection, this information or articulation of words seems to be wrong. Most of them get away, 80% of them get away from the unknown. Those 15%, the 20% remaining and waiting for a decision, are negative. However, if we look at the data itself, in 2019 3 000 821 people were asked for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The largest number of applicants were Algerians – a thousand 60, Morocco - 741, Pakistan - 540 and Afghanistan - 433. This is for 2019. In 2019, international protection was recognised, i.e. 3 000 821, of which the majority of them had escaped, was granted 85 persons, of which 81 were granted refugee status and 4 were granted subsidiary protection status. And if we look at the countries where these 85 people come from: 28 are citizens of Turkey, 17 are citizens of Syria, 8 are citizens of Iran, 5 are citizens of Iraq, 5 are citizens of Afghanistan, 5 are citizens of Russia, 3 are citizens of Somalia, 2 are citizens of Nigeria, 2 are citizens of Palestine, 2 are citizens of Serbia and 2 are citizens of Yemen. The status of international protection was also recognised to the citizens of Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Mali, Pakistan and Rwanda. Something similar is happening in 2020. Maybe with just this change that the most citizens from Morocco have been asked to apply, there is war, war probably, a thousand 221, and so on and so forth. I think that small steps are being taken in this proposal for amendments to the Law on International Protection, but steps in the right direction; and that we have made the right decision in the coalition and are correcting this matter. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are pleased that we have also suggested that in certain cases it is possible to suspend or restrict the provision of allowance in these cases if its procedure for international protection has already been completed legally. I think it's a good thing things don't happen again. If sufficient own resources are available for survival at the amount of the basic minimum income, if the person arriving in Slovenia has sufficient resources, it is appropriate that he survives by these means without being granted by Slovenia. We have a lot of other problems in Slovenia that we have to address. And that a month's allowance shall not be paid if he leaves the place of residence without permission, in his own words, if he fails, if he fails to comply with the obligation to notify the competent authorities or to participate in a personal interview. That's what's been going on. We invite him to Slovenia, take care of him, and it is difficult for him to come to a personal conversation. Do you think that's right? Not to me personally. If I went abroad, I had to report to the police for the first three months. The police came to see me in my room when I was working abroad in Brussels. And she looked at the drawers if my personal belongings were there. That's all for information. If they commit a serious infringement of the residence referred to in Article 82, that is violence, intolerance, intentional harm and so on. Now we have no reason to destroy things against the man we care about and who is violent towards others; we cannot take any action; what we find wrong in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Maybe I should just mention one more thing: the Center for Foreigners in Postojna. I know people who've been there a lot of times, and I have to say, for these people who live in these centers, it's very well taken care of. Maybe I'll say it's even better taken care of than a lot of Slovenian families. If I'm not mistaken, they get six meals, but it's all too little for one client in this esteemed assembly. I personally support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection and will gladly support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper. Get ready, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will also discuss the amendment that we are talking about, but in line with existing parliamentary practice, but at the outset a few words more about this law. As far as I am concerned personally, if any amendments were adopted in the form of amendments, this law could be supported. Similarly, if some amendments were adopted, I could also support the Aliens Act. But since we are a parliamentary group in this National Assembly – the SAB Group – that we are trying to coordinate ourselves and vote as uniformly as possible because this ensures, after all, some predictability in the functioning of the National Assembly, I will not support the Law on International Protection. After all, the coalition has the responsibility to adopt laws and to provide sufficient votes. I'm the opposition. But if I looked purely at the content, as I said, I could easily support it. I certainly do not agree with the statement made here today that this law is more about international protection to prevent international protection and to make it difficult for applicants – refugees to receive international assistance. I absolutely disagree with this statement. However, I believe that trying to find a law – who prefers it better than not – to respond to a major dilemma, which, throughout the world or, say, Europe, not only in Slovenia, everyone has identified for several years, this is an abuse of the procedure of international protection. When we talk about international protection, I would like to stress this once again that we know what we are talking about, we are not talking about economic migrants; we are talking about the protection of people fleeing war, violence or political persecution. And as far as that is concerned, I have absolutely no dilemma of helping such people. To the people of Syria who have lost all those who are even politically persecuted from one side, now on the other side, serving them in life and so on, it is our human and humanitarian duty to help them. Here I also support all the efforts of the European Union to share the burden fairly between countries and to help these people to the best of their ability. However, the fact is that so far this level of aid and this level of regulation of international aid for such applicants, for real applicants for international assistance, would be high; and that in this area the Republic of Slovenia has actually followed the European conventions, declarations and everything else, which fall under the European legal order. And within this, we have been warned even more than once, in particular by some colleagues who wanted to change things so that things cannot change because they are regulated at European Union level and could come in this sense in contravention of the European acquis. But the European acquis and the European Union have found what I have repeatedly said on these committees that this system of international protection with these high cauldrons, with a high level of rights, with a high level of protection created for some other situation, when there was not so much pressure on Europe by migrants seeking a better life, better bread, these are economic migrants. And I have also repeatedly warned on this committee that in the crowd of these people who are crossing borders with different interests, one as European migrants, and one as persecuted refugees, unfortunately many times those who would really need international protection, as I described earlier, with a sufficiently high level of protection, with immediate assistance and so on. I see this law in particular in this direction, trying to respond to this dilemma, how to prevent abuses of the procedure of international protection, abuses which not only burden our bodies in these procedures, which cost the Republic of Slovenia, but not only this; it is important for me to lose the right applicants for international protection and those who really should. I am now looking again at the debate on where all these serious provisions would be, which would prevent and make it difficult to obtain and maintain the status, but I do not see them. Maybe someone will tell me later. I see here that quite a few of these changes relate to the limitation of movement, I will comment on this a little later. Then one change in my opinion is very crucial in determining the applicant's identity or in particular in determining his true age. And then there's a few little things, none of which I think would be a restriction on the possibility of gaining that right. All the provisions that say that, for example, free legal aid or pocket money is available only to those who do not have sufficient resources seem to me perfectly logical. But the fact is, and we all have to realize that there won't be many. Most of them won't have it. But if it's obvious to anyone that he has them, they'll be very rare, I'll tell you, why don't you just cover that costs yourself, if it's obvious he has enough resources. This is also the arrangement for our citizens. And then we have this security check. Well, I really don't understand why this is necessary, a security check for a refugee consultant, but maybe I'll get some answers. But in principle, this law, including our law, like all five, I think that five of them, the proposals of the regulations of the European Union and the Council of Europe, have responded to some of the main dilemmas that have so far emerged, historically or in recent years, as a problem in this process. And it seems to me that our law is in line with these trends in which the European Union is going and one of the main problems that is constantly emerging is what has been mentioned so many times today that European migrants of borders are also breaking the law. Why this is necessary, why they are not allowed to have a legal approach to the border, is another issue, very complex, which I have also discussed already, what are the solutions. So it is people who are economic migrants and who cross the border illegally; and then, as soon as they are covered or meet the authorities, they enforce the requirement for international protection. What's going on? This procedure of obtaining international assistance, which takes us absolutely too long, shall be turned around. I have mentioned several times that in Switzerland they can complete it within 14 days or within one month, and we have almost one year. This procedure is reversed, this person gets all the rights, as if he were an applicant for international assistance, who is really running from serious persecution, with fear of the body, life and so on; and when this procedure begins, this person disappears. It disappears and is gone and the procedure cannot be completed because the person is simply no longer on the road, of course, two borders forward, towards Germany, which is its destination. And on these issues, how to prevent these abuses, I think he's trying to answer this law. Because I am always in the same position on this issue of abuse of rights. My political position is that I support the high level of rights available to someone; at the same time, I am allergic if this high level of rights is abused. And the same is true when it comes to social rights, which are very widely guaranteed to applicants in our country; and it is only right that we provide them to people who really need them. But I am not for the abuse of this system of social assistance, and I feel the same way here. Absolutely all rights to give those true applicants the international assistance they need and to prevent abuses that, as it were said, could lead to the fact that true applicants will not come to this aid at all. And here I see in particular these restrictions of movement, movement in this sense, in order to prevent this from being detected in a timely manner, whether this person wants to escape, or whether he wants to go, or whether he is some serious applicant, in respect of which all procedures should be carried out — from personal conversation to medical examination and so on. Because otherwise it makes no sense even the machinery to launch and offer all these rights and all that to move the person forward. Actually, that's not what these people want. Instead of all of us thinking together - when I say to you, I think of the European Union here - about the legal and legitimate ways in which European migrants could move where their work is needed, we try to solve some of these problems in this way. I don't have a problem with that. I see here perhaps a few dilemmas, legal dilemmas, let's say how you justifiably substantiate that a request is manifestly unfounded, or how you are likely to find that there is a valid reason for the applicant to leave the country of origin without a personal document. These are some legal tummas that must be filled and given to them only by the court through judicial practice. Otherwise, I don't know what's so very controversial. It also complements this possibility of identifying the right age. It thus states: “There is an appropriate legal basis for the competent authority to question, on the basis of an opinion of officials or persons involved in the work of unaccompanied minors, the age of the applicant of intent claiming to be a unaccompanied minor, the preparation of an expert opinion prior to the submission of an application for international protection.” I don't think that's an issue. One of the key problems I mentioned earlier is that men, who are significantly older than 18 years of age, are also 30 years old, not only in Slovenia, but also declare young applicants everywhere to receive an immediate scholarship to get a legal representative to get a school to get additional rights. And that's an abuse for me. I find this abuse particularly problematic when those who pretend to be minors are put together with minors in accommodations. And these are the problems that we have been warned about in Cyprus. Minors who are issued as minors who are placed in accommodation centres, rooms, along with minors. This seems to me quite right and, above all, a step in the right direction. But if I touch the amendment we're talking about right now, I just want us to know what we're talking about. One thing is this security check, which I don't quite understand what its purpose is, whether it's an anti-terrorist agenda, I don't know what the government is trying to say. As for the lawyer and the protection of professional secrecy, we seem to understand this provision a little differently. The draft law in Article 4 also states that if it is established that the applicant’s true identity is known to the consultant, the applicant’s identification documents are available to him, the actual age of the applicant shall be known if he claims to be a minor or if the applicant is aware of the facts on the basis of which the applicant is not entitled to refugee status or subsidiary protection, the competent authority shall inform him. This, my dear colleagues, is something other than the principle of professional secrecy when compared with a lawyer. This is about whether he has the right to an attorney at all, if it turns out that when documents appear that he does not have the right, is not entitled to refugee status, according to his domestic say that he is an economic migrant, or subsidiary protection, or if he turns out to be a minor, he is said to be not entitled to some rights, then this person must inform him. And this does not, in my opinion, have the right to protect professional secrecy, which has also warned the ZPS, but sometimes I do not agree with them, as you know, any connection. This is whether justice belongs to someone or not; and if it does not belong to him, it stops because someone informs someone. If I give you a comparison with a lawyer, I hope you believe me because I was a lawyer, and under our laws someone who doesn't have enough resources is charged with a crime that has so many years and so many years in prison, the state grants him an ex-offo free lawyer. He has that right. However, if it is shown below that he has some big income, to find him five bags of gold or an account with 100,000 euros, then he no longer has the right to ex-offo lawyers. And it's the same situation here. He has the right to counsel as long as he meets the conditions. However, when it fails to fulfil them, the consultant may inform and then determine whether that right still belongs to him. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. It was really nice to hear that reason slowly comes into these discussions. Before I move on to a narrow amendment, however, it is necessary to establish a context. The context we're talking about today. I claim that the red thread of the previous marriage and this marriage alone is an abuse. Today, the right to asylum, which was meant to be a very humanistic and positive right, is being abused; and this is being mass abused, throughout the world. Worse, it's become business. The business that is served by those who even finance the matter is the financial eloquents of Soros, the Arabs. The business that is served by those who then transport people, the business that they also live with in the target countries, individuals who serve with so-called refugees, who are actually illegal migrants and nothing else; and, of course, NGOs and a whole bunch of others who hold the bag and hunt for money. It's all about money. All together, the system, at least in Europe, reminds us of a mafia going up to Brussels. It's actually a story with so-called poor refugees. In this story, I am fine and happy to be bad news to all in a row, because five years ago I put up one statement that I am repeating today, while others have put themselves on the table at that time. There are no refugees. What refugees, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! During the war for the independence of Slovenia, or wars in the Balkans, the refugees were refugees. And that's when we took care of these people, because they were real refugees. Mothers with children, elders; to fight they stayed down in the south and fought. Today, of course, the situation is absurd because they are not refugees. I come here to fight capable and qualified men, without families, without children, with money; and here they are just moaning and here they show what great sacrifices are coming. This is essentially a form of cultural Marxism, that civilization is encouraged, shows what injustices civilization is supposed to do; and now let it answer and pay for it. We also often hear these fairy tales here about how Slovenia participated in the conquest wars of the Nato Pact; and that is why we are now overwhelmed with refugees, so we must accept them for no reason and have them all at our own expense and do not know what nonsense. My dears, now some history. The history of radical Islam is a little different than it appears. They were not a crusader's reason for radical Islam, but they were extreme, last and very late, Europe's late response to radical Islam. By the time the Crusades began, radical Islam had killed or enslaved more than 60 million Christians, ladies and gentlemen. In Slovenia, too, we have suffered endlessly from radical Islam, and we have done no one the least wrong at this time. This is where they killed, kidnapped the Slovenes, the Slovenians, dragged them down south, the people who lived here, so they're all those camps and all the stories. And so it would be good for people to read a nice Janist or something more realistic to understand what this is all about. Because talking about what is happening both with legal mass migration and with illegal mass migration is in fact inseparably linked to the radical Islamisation of Europe supported by the fifth column here, because it is expected – and is seriously mistaken – that it will have long-term political benefits. Someone could make a living in the short run. In the long run, ladies and gentlemen, as that Balkan proverb says – The one who has the devil's pumpkins gets them back in his head. And you need to know how and what happens then. When we talk about so-called refugees, who, of course, are not, read about – illegal migrants, it should be remembered that only five years ago there was an attack in Europe at the Bataclan concert hall. Today it's statistics for the vast majority because they don't know because they're hiding what was actually happening there. Today, people may know that more than 120 citizens and citizens of the European Union have been killed there. They know that. But almost no one knows that before they died, Islamists tortured them horribly, that their eyes were out, that women were cut into sex organs, that people were cut to pieces alive, and so on and so forth. Of course, it's reported, but these reports are classified, you know, so people don't get upset. That, ladies and gentlemen, is radical Islam. And that's why you have to keep that in mind when you talk about it. Today we are talking and listening to stories about poor refugees who are mass-fleeing and saving their lives. Strangely, we have 30, 40-year-old men who have lost everything, lost their family, lost all their documents; they never lose their new iPhone, and they never lose their money. Isn't that interesting?Oh, my God! They just never lose those two things. Yes, of course, because it has nothing to do with the escape. Whoever thinks it's something spontaneous, something that's supposed to be, is terribly wrong. The matter is organised, well organised, funded and, of course, it is the most dirty business in the world. By the way, it is worth about EUR 400 billion a year, which means destroying modern civilization and its related goods, including security and human rights, as we understand them. That's what we're talking about. In Europe, we hear stories about the poor refugees. We're already here, and we'll probably be there. You will not believe, in Egypt, in the home country of the Muslim Brotherhood, in the mosques and then, of course, throughout the Islamic world, talk about the great European hijra. Do you know what a hijra is? Hijra is the first stage of jihad, the conquest of the territory for radical Islam, following the Koran with massive immigration to combat capable men in the territories, which is then gradually subdued by radical Islam. We're clear now what we're talking about. Then there is the question of how the other countries have already reacted. Remember that story started with that "Wir Schaffen das", come all of you; and then you had to open the border. And you won't believe everything that's been going on about illegal migration, what's been going on and what's been going on over the past few years is illegal. Pure crime. Those mass migrations, when organised, were mass crime. That is why people should answer — criminally, politically, in all ways. I'm still saying we should. So I wrote a proposal from an investigator, and I hope that one day he will have a white day to talk a little bit about who is responsible and what someone can afford. Can one part of the European Union's acquis be suspended and one part of Slovenia's legal order be suspended because someone makes it up? I say it must not be because it is no longer the rule of law and it has nothing to do with law. But then it has very serious consequences. By the way, some who were involved in terrorist acts, for eight I know unquestionably, have also gone through these mass migrations through Slovenia. Those who opened the borders at the time also put others in danger. And if we go to this article right now, which is right in front of us. What is now being proposed is a minimum harmonisation in reality. Bringing our legislation closer to the standards already adopted by virtually all other European countries. Whoever claims anything else, either doesn't know what they're talking about or they're lying on purpose. In recent years, all European countries have so tightened legislation related to illegal migration that we hardly imagine it. Some European Union countries have returned the illegal border crossing from the offence to the crime because of this, of course, the consequences of further treatment. They all came from the very knowledge that if this process continues, European civilisation will end and everything we know within national states will be over. To some, of course, this is fitting, and that is why they promote and defend it. But the vast majority of people just want to live safely. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because this is about mass abuse, about crime and the potential threat to people, of course, these things also need to be properly put in place. The first to make this very clear was not the current government, but Minister Györkös Žnidar in the previous government, who said very clearly: “Everything about asylum procedures today is a mass abuse.” End of quote. Is that right? And if we understand this once, then we also understand that this is something that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia pay needlessly; with cover, as Murphy's law says – behind the most highly eloquent words, private interests are hidden in politics. And here we're hearing about humanism, and I don't know what else. Actually, that's all he's ever used to do. What kind of fugitives?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, in what neighbouring country is there a war? None. Is there a country where fundamental human rights are threatened? She's not here. There is a European Union around us. Then who are we pulling? The state can grant someone the right to asylum if it wants to, but it's not due. For if I went back to the original – and any legal act had to be dealt with in terms of what was originally meant — the question of asylum legislation and international acts in this area, we would see that this was meant by someone who is a refugee who saves his life, personal integrity, seeking asylum in the first neighbouring safe country or in that part of his country that is safe. It's an escape. What is today, which is self-evident to some, would even like to see more of this, but it would be called an asylum shopping, that everyone can go wherever they want to, to any country. Then he says, "I'm an asylum; and here, you get a house, you get everything, we'll take care of you, all the procedures, you get a legal adviser, they pay the locals who have worked for it for 40 years. But who cares because only a stranger matters; and we're back on what I said in the previous marriage. Here, in reality, there are two concepts – the concept of modern left-wing people who want to put the rights of a foreigner as total and totalitarian over the rights of their citizens and citizens; and the concept of those who, of course, oppose it and claim that we are all equal and that it is necessary to take care of their citizens and citizens first. This is the purpose of the State to prevent abuse, for it is the foundation of the rule of law. Things need to be done very clearly and consistently, and there will be no problems. And what does this article, which is here today and is supposed to be controversial, determine? If someone who finds out from someone who is an asylum-seekers who has made an application for asylum that it is not justified to present a serious security risk, or that it is another form of abuse, there is a genuine violation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, a conscious violation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, that he is then obliged to warn. And some object to that. Why don't we ask ourselves why we wouldn't have to pay for another unnecessary procedure for a few months, which would end with rejection, why don't Slovenia and Slovenians live worse, why don't we take away Slovenian pensioners from their pensions a little while longer and lower their salaries to employees, tax them extra, so that we can give them to foreigners who abuse and cheat. And if anyone finds out about the fraud, they won't keep saying that, so they can keep cheating. This is a translation of what you are advocating with this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. And I completely reject that, and so does your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	Thank you very much. He's got Natasha Sukich on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Yeah, first things first. Thank you. Presidents, I ask you to warn or even to give a reminder to Mr Grims, because here we have just heard an Islamophobic manifesto and a lecture on radical Islam, which has nothing to do with this law that we are talking about today. We've listened to literally stereotyping refugees. And everyone in a row is branded as some radicals who will destroy our culture, and I don't know what else. And because of such things, then a citizen of the Democratic Republic of Congo does not get protection because of such mentality. And then you're surprised I'm warning you about xenophobia. It was an expression of xenophobic attack. Please note that this does not belong to the National Assembly. It's a hate speech. Thank you very much. Then I'll have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	Member of the Commission, this was not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal may relate only to the manner in which the meeting is held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	As for the replicas, Commissioner Grimes. The fugitive counsellor, I made it very clear, is basically a lawyer. He has an equal position as a lawyer and as such is committed to protecting professional secrecy, which is the basis of a confidential relationship. These are constitutionally defined rights of the authorising officer. And so please, what you're suggesting is out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Joint Left and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Natasha Sukich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We propose that the article be deleted. Why? Again, it is the legal representatives and the provisions applicable to lawyers should apply mutatis mutandis to the protection of the confidentiality of the data. These advisers are bound by the duty of professional secrecy, as I have explained earlier. The task of a legal representative shall be to act in the best interests of the minor. The confidentiality of the relationship between unaccompanied minors and the legitimate representative in which all aspects of privacy are intertwined is essential for the performance of the task. However, the right to privacy in the professional field must not be affected by the State. The proposed legal provision is inadmissible in Articles 35, 36 and 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and we therefore propose that this should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Applicants for international protection are usually those who flee their home countries for some reason. That reason is either what happened to a citizen of the Democratic Republic of Congo, or that they were served in life, it is not just that. And, of course, they cannot and must not contact the authorities of the country of origin, because if they do, their lives will be further threatened. The provision that applicants for international protection should nevertheless be required to obtain an identification document in such a way, although States are obliged to protect information about the applicant from the authorities of their country of origin, is inadmissible and we therefore propose that this be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Here too, we propose that this article be deleted, as a new sanction for measures in the event of violations of the rules of residence is added; and this is separated into easier and more serious infringements. For more serious infringements, accommodation of applicants in reception premises is envisaged. This is a sanction for a violation outside our criminal and criminal system, outside our system, and therefore cannot be determined as such. There cannot be anything outside our system; and we therefore propose that this be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want to talk? Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Here too, we propose that the article be amended by deleting 1st, 6th, 10th and 11th indents. Why? The definition of the danger of escape is too broad and goes beyond the definition of indifference and points to the punishment for offences duly regulated in the field legislation. Only a lack of respect for the rule of law cannot sufficiently justify a real link to the assumption that the applicant or the applicant will escape or escape and therefore may be given a measure to limit the movement. That's why we're proposing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is a second defensively proposed law on the real estate catastrophe, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Robert Rožac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! In the second reading before the National Assembly, the proposal for a law on the cadastral property to replace the existing arrangements for the recording of real estate and the maintenance of real estate records currently laid down in the Real Estate Registration Act, which has been in force for 15 years, has been in force since 2006. The basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure that data are entered into real estate records in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by fulfilling a multi-purpose role as a basis for the registration of real rights in the land book for tax, spatial, housing, social, energy, security, statistical and similar many other purposes. The law provides more appropriately for certain basic concepts, such as real estate, parcel, building, part of the building, and their substantive definition. The Real Estate Catastrophe Act provides for the maintenance of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings in a single record and no longer in three separate databases, as has been the case so far, when these data are kept in the Earth's Catastrophe, the Catastrophe of Buildings and the Real Estate Register. It also introduces a single procedure called the cadastral property registration procedure and allows for the recording of the service area and the area of building rights. The law regulates more appropriately the manner in which components of buildings are managed, such as atriums, parking spaces, and records of parcels, buildings and parts of buildings, and changes in these data, taking into account the legal safety of property owners. The adoption of the law will provide an appropriate legal basis for the comprehensive informationisation of all business processes relating to the decision-making of entries in the Real Estate Register, the Register of Spatial Units, the State Border Register and the Register of Titles. Compulsory electronic writing and electronic file management will be an update and rationalisation of the Geodetic Administration. Information support for the integrated implementation of all legal procedures will be provided by the renewed information system Kataster, which is created in the eSpace project programme, which gives it an appropriate legal framework for action. The existing information solutions used by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the maintenance of real estate records under the existing law do not allow for effective data management and integration. Since an effective information system is essential for the effective integration of real estate data into the official public record, the implementation of this system is carried out under the eSpace project programme co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union from the European Regional Development Fund. The Real Estate Cluster will be linked to the Land Book, the Central Population Register and the Business Register, and will also allow for the connection and interoperability of all other spatially oriented databases. The law also sets up a new record – a register of addresses where the data on addresses in the Republic of Slovenia has been kept as an integral part of the register of spatial units. In most European countries, this is one of the key registers maintained and maintained by the public administration for the purpose of sharing and operating eGovernment. The National Assembly’s Home Committee sent a proposal for a law, together with amendments, for further consideration. The amendments tabled also take into account the proposals and comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the proposals from the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. The amendments also included proposals from the Government or the Ministry of the Environment and an area for the implementation of the law within an extended period of time due to the changed deadline for the implementation of the project for the informational renovation of real estate records under the eProstor project. The eSpace project, which provides information on the renovation of real estate records, was extended by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Cohesion Service to close the period of eligibility of costs by 31. 12. 2021 is extended to 30. 6. 2022. The justification for the extension shall be justified by the situation in the Republic of Slovenia during the implementation of the project due to the emergency situation. Since information support and its implementation are conditional upon the entry into force of the provisions of the law, the deadlines for the entry into force of the information system and related dates shall also be extended accordingly. Finally, because no amendments have been tabled, we propose that a third reading of this law be made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Your Honor! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 27th session. 3. 2021 as a parent working body was treated by the Government as a proposal for a law on the cadastral property, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Robert Rožac, pointed out that the basic objective of the bill was to ensure the entry of data into real estate records in order to fulfil their multi-purpose role as a basis for the registration of real rights in the land book for tax, spatial, housing, social, statistical and many other purposes. The adoption of the proposed law justifies the need to regulate, in particular, the content of the definition of basic concepts and their substantive definition, the management of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings in the single record, the establishment of a single procedure — the so-called cadastral procedure, the recording of the service area and the area of building rights, the manner in which the components of buildings are managed, the recording of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings, and the modification of such data, taking into account the legal safety of the property owners and the informational renewal of real estate records. Among the concrete solutions in the draft law, he pointed out, inter alia, that the data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings are recorded in the single register of the real estate cadastral and no longer in three separate records, as currently regulated. The Real Estate Catastrophe shall be established by downloading data from the existing Land Cadastre, the Catastrophe of Buildings and Real Estate Register and by processing and translating these data in a manner and in a form specified by the proposed law. The Real Estate Cluster will be linked to the Land Book, the Central Population Register and the Business Register and will also allow the connection of all other spatially oriented databases. The bill also establishes a new register of addresses, which is a record of address data in the Republic of Slovenia and which has been maintained as an integral part of the spatial unit register. In most European countries, this is one of the key registers maintained and maintained by the public administration for the purpose of sharing and operating eGovernment. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that they had made comments in their opinion on certain articles which were largely taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In addition, the applicant provided additional written explanations. In a short discussion, support was expressed for the bill's proposal, as it represents progress in the area of real estate recording processes in the context of the modern information environment, both for the country and the local community, in order to facilitate the exercise of their powers; as for businesses and natural persons in their activities. Among other things, the bill pursues a very important objective in the area of housing policy, allowing for precise records by which countries and local communities will obtain relevant data on the real use of real estate. The state and local communities currently have only an assessment of the situation; without accurate data, adequate housing policy cannot be planned. The digitalisation and informationisation of data, which can bring priority in a number of areas, has also been highlighted as an advantage, including the creation of certain records on the real estate market, which would mainly benefit potential buyers. Information and digitisation will enable the establishment of records in which data on potential inspections, energy efficiency and earthquake safety of real estates can be collected, and so on, in order to protect the potential buyer and thus affect the assessment of the reality of the price of each property. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the SDS, SMC and NSI parliamentary groups, as well as its amendment to Article 56. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party and Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a real estate cadastral law to replace the current Real Estate Registration Act. The new law will allow for the use of an updated network of previously uncoordinated real estate records, which is the result of a long-standing effort to develop and merge previously separated institutions, at least in the Republic of Slovenia today we do not have a database containing reliable data on the number, type and quality of real estate. This limits the possibilities for designing established development strategies. In the SMC Group, we welcome the new law, which will simultaneously regulate and accelerate the process of registering real estate in the context of the updated information system. We believe that it is crucial for the development of our infrastructure that complex systems such as the existing real estate record system be reduced to a single universal system. The existing structure consists of separate segments such as the cadaster of buildings, the earth cadaster, the real estate register and others. Despite the merger, the records must remain as complete as possible and the data in them must be of good quality. The long-term efforts of the Geodetic Authority for the information redesign project, which places the user first, have produced a result consistent with the trends of the information society, as well as with Slovenia's efforts to become an advanced and digital society. Technical trends are moving towards the establishment of networks, the automation of systems and the use of modern technologies in data capture and maintenance. The transition to a new system will provide the competent institutions with a basis on which they will be able to respond coherently to tax and other important systemic needs at the level of the State and the municipalities. The new system will also allow more reliable spatial analysis, statistical research and space change reports to enable decision makers at all levels to make better spatial decisions. From the perspective of the implementation of social policy and regional development, it seems important that data on the number, type, surface, quality and location of the property are transparent and linked to the population. Only in this way can we have a good overview of the current situation and a concrete basis for work related to the country's spatial plan. One of the objectives of this law relating to the mass valuation of property also concerns the organisational structure of the Geodetic Authority. In the SMC Group, we want the Geodetic Administration to transform into a modern institution that will be trained both to perform operational works in the public interest and to create value added products. The modern system environment requires appropriate adaptation from all institutions. It is also necessary to respond adequately to the demands of users, which are becoming increasingly difficult when there is transparency and the speed of systemic response. We believe that the solution to which this law applies is particularly appropriate because it simplifies the procedures of the real estate cadastral and puts the user at the forefront. On the basis of these facts, we will support the amendment of the law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The bill replaces the applicable Real Estate Registration Act. In addition to the land cadastre and the cadastra of buildings, which are actual real estate records, as well as the land register, which is a legal record of real estate, other real estate records such as real estate registers, state border records, spatial unit registers, physical spatial datasets, spatial planning records are maintained in the Republic of Slovenia. These records contain data on the actual use of land, public road and rail infrastructure, housing areas and the like. A wide range of different records, of course, all the more so as to help transparency and easy accessibility of relevant data as soon as possible. Data are important not only for owners but also for the planning of different policies of the country, such as spatial, housing, energy and other policies. The additional problem of the existing system is also posed by different legal bases requiring the storage of these records both by content and by form. Since these bases are more and evolved over time, they also contain very fragmented terminology and its uneven use. The latter's unification will allow for a more accurate entry of all the necessary parameters into the single real estate cadastral from now on. At the same time, it is also a reform of the information system, which will prevent contradictory elements that may occur when entering a single record separately. The law thus introduces a cadastral real estate, which will be considered as a basic register of data on the position, form, physical and other properties of real estates, i.e. parcels, buildings and parts of buildings. The operation of the Geodetic Authority with geodetic solution operators will also be unified and digitised. The single cadastral procedure will not only affect the uniform production of laboratories, but also the verifications in administrative procedures and the entry made by the Geodetic Administration. At the same time, certain illogicalities and certain ways of recording certain specific parts of buildings, such as atriums and parking places, are also eliminated. The law therefore follows the objective of making real estate records as complete as possible and filled with quality data. As data are transferred from existing records to start with, of course, they will also need to be gradually verified and refreshed. It will also welcome an arrangement in which data on owners and their shares will also be entered in the land register for the period until the registration of the property or building rights in the property catalogue. These data should only be modified at the request of the person who submits a public or certified instrument, thereby reducing the possibility of abuse of registration. At the same time, both owners will also be informed of changes in ownership shares, which is an additional security guard for something to happen on the property. In Levica, we are pleased with the unification of records and the effort to improve the user's experience, so we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The basic objective of the proposed Real Estate Catastrophe Act, which replaces the current Real Estate Registration Act, is to increase the effectiveness of the Geodetic Authority by simplifying the implementation of administrative procedures. Thus, the proposal for a law enforces the regulation of the accelerated real estate recording process within the framework of the modern information environment. It introduces support e-commerce in real estate registration procedures and links existing registers of buildings, land cadastral and real estate registers into one record. Furthermore, the law introduces other innovations that will help to improve the legal security of property owners and the use of data for various purposes, especially for tax and other systemic needs of the State and municipalities, such as spatial analyses, spatial change reports, for statistical purposes and so on. In addition to basic concepts, the bill also defines the management of data in a single record – a real estate cadastral and introduces a single cadastral procedure, it is said that there is no division into buildings and land. It also introduces the recording of the service area and the area of building rights as a graphic definition. The law also includes a way of managing certain components, especially atriums and parking spaces. In parallel with the drafting of the law, a project is also under way to renovate real estate records, i.e. a land cadastre and a cadastra of buildings, a register of spatial units and a register of state borders. This project is bound by the adoption of this law and will only be applicable by the introduction of renewed information solutions. Only through the development of information support will conditions be provided for the controlled introduction of changes and better data integration, and thus indirectly for the appropriate quality of data in the future. In Slovenia, we are still facing a number of bureaucratic inefficiencies of public administration and administrative burdens of the business environment, which need to be reduced in all areas. In New Slovenia, we believe that digitisation of public administrations must strive for further centralisation, optimising the use of public funds and providing better services. The use of information and communication technologies not only facilitates the implementation of procedures but also reduces the demanding time and costs of citizens and businesses in administrative matters. Since the Real Estate Catastrophe Act also means a step towards the organisational transformation of the Geodetic Authority into a modern, public and more efficient administration, the Members of New Slovenia will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Dear Secretary of State, President, Members' colleagues and fellow Members! The Real Estate Catastrophe Act will replace the existing Real Estate Registration Act and will provide for the establishment, management and maintenance of the Real Estate Cadastre, State Border Records, Register of Spatial Units and Register of Titles as a basic system rule. In the SAB Group, we welcome the fact that the cadastral property will combine data from the earth cadastre, the cadastrall of buildings and the real estate register; it will also be linked to the land book, the central population register, the business register and will allow the connection of all spatially oriented databases. In parallel with the preparation of this law, a programme of eSpace projects is under way, which includes a project for information renovating real estate records. This will provide a basis for the effective and timely recording of real estate data to establish effective and controlled links with the Land Book and to link with other spatial data sets. The law thus simplifies people’s problems in life. For example, the service recorded in the book of the earth will also be visible in the cadastre of real estate, so it will be graphically shown in nature. This will make matters clear and transparent in the field. In the SAB Group, we will therefore give appropriate support to the Proposal for a Real Estate Catastrophe Act. We believe that it is also appropriate because it is addressing one of the very important objectives in the area of housing policy – the creation of up-to-date records. We know that housing policy is one of the more pressing themes, and one of these reasons represents unrelated databases of existing data. The State Administration shall have separate databases on the permanent and temporary residence of residents and the database of buildings and floor properties. For us in the SAB party, it is very important that the state and local communities have data on the actual use of real estate, so it is clear how many properties are used, how many are empty, unoccupied and how many are in construction. It is important that what signals about market developments are sent by the country through its organs in its composition, such as Gurs. The latter indicated in the annual preliminary report on the Slovenian real estate market for 2020 that housing prices will increase in the future if no new housing is available on the market. In doing so, it does not provide key data on the number of unoccupied dwellings and housing in construction or those recently built. So neither is the data that exists. On the basis of such data, it can be mistaken to conclude that there are no empty apartments in Slovenia, creating a basis for a long and unsupervised increase in real estate prices. Therefore, again on this occasion, we call on all the competent ones, including Gurs, to examine how to communicate with the public and the content of the information provided, which he also publishes in regular, preliminary reports. An already deserted view and a walk through cities and villages reveals a number of uninhabited residential buildings. As long as this data is not available, it is not possible to implement the relevant housing policy or to send appropriate and correct signals on the actual situation to the market. Therefore, in the SAB, of course, we support that these matters are made transparent and that the local communities and the state can lead to this account an adequate housing policy, which, unfortunately, is not possible today, even due to the absence of this information. In the SAB Group, we will give appropriate support to the proposal, as I mentioned at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Surely we all agree that in Slovenia we need a comprehensive and transparent property record and an effective information system that will link all the necessary data in one place. I therefore welcome the intention of the Government, which, in an effort to upgrade the regulation so far, is preparing a law on the cadastral property. The solutions proposed are aimed at providing regulated and more transparent real estate records. The law thus comprehensively covers all areas affecting the recording of real estate. This is the management of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings in the single record, the establishment of a single procedure — the so-called cadastral procedure, the recording of the service area and the area of building rights, the manner in which components of buildings are managed, such as atriums and parking spaces, the registration of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings, and the modification of these data taking into account the legal safety of the property owners and the informational recast of real estate records. The data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which have been recorded in three separate records, are recorded in the proposed law in a single register — a real estate cadastral — which will certainly bring greater transparency and utility. The law establishes a new register of addresses, which is a register of addresses in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been maintained as an integral part of the register of spatial units. In most European countries, this is one of the key registers maintained and maintained by the public administration for the purpose of sharing and operating e-government. In parallel with the preparation and treatment of this law, a programme of eSpace projects is under way, including a project for information renovating real estate records. In view of the key importance of the information system for the effective integration of real estate data into the official public record, the implementation of this system is carried out under the eSpace project programme co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union from the European Regional Development Fund. The real estate catalogue will be established by downloading data from the existing land cadastra, the cadastra of buildings and the real estate register, and by processing and translating these data in the manner and form laid down by this law. The Real Estate Cluster will be linked to the Land Book, the Central Population Register and the Business Register and will also allow the connection of all other spatially oriented databases. In the context of the treatment of the home labour body, we have adopted amendments that address possible uncertainties and follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Some professional conditions for the implementation of real estate recording have also been supplemented, such as the calculation of parcel surfaces. Proposals for amendments were also adopted to regulate the notification of the entry of data into the property cadastral and the arrangements for the registration of land credit change. The entry into force of the law has been moved to April 4, 2022 in order to comply with the information system in advance. In the Desus Group, we believe that this law will allow for a quality system of recording and data management and will bring more order to this area; and we will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u192	Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law that is very extensive, which contains 168 articles, parts of the law are divided into chapters, sections, divisions, and at the same time it is complex and difficult to understand for a simple citizen. It will replace the current Real Estate Registration Act, which was implemented in the old year 2000. A number of stakeholders – various ministries, the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Society and ZPS – have made numerous comments and suggestions. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the fact that the professional public has been actively involved in order to reach a broad consensus in the design of solutions. As far as expression is concerned, cadastral terms, different definitions of the same terms need to be simplified or made simple. We agree that the entry of all property data in a single or identical record with an appropriate security of control shall eliminate any non-compliance that may arise in the future in the event of an unrelated entry in three records. So far, we have witnessed outdated information solutions, administrative procedures have gone on indefinitely. Now we are looking forward to the so-called cadastral procedure, which will be simpler and faster for real estate owners. We must also bear in mind the importance of legal certainty when real estate owners arrange for the registration of legal data, such as those corresponding to the actual state of nature. In the long run, they cause higher costs, poor and nerve failures, because the building cannot be legalized, it can be obtained with building permits, it is not possible for us abroad to have inter-neighbourly disputes and dissipation due to construction on a foreign breast. In practice, there are also cases where you buy a neighboring farm and forest and you do not find a milestone in nature. However, a very smart bureaucrat can say – since he is up there somewhere, look around at the steep part of the guest. And where are you gonna find him under the sheet?Oh, my God! Nowhere. It is correct that the geodetic undertaking should invite the owner of the plot to be subject to border treatment and owners of adjacent parcels. The difficulty is to fully regulate the registration of real estates; in addition to parcels all their components, including construction engineering facilities such as networks and economic infrastructures. We are also pleased to see a parallel eSpace project programme involving an information renovation project on real estate records. In doing so, an investment totalling EUR 22.4 million of eSpace projects is co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union from the European Regional Development Fund, which contributes 17.9 million. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is also concerned about the complete and incomplete registrations of property rights from the beginning of 2020, where the number of records of holders of property rights or persons with incomplete data is a million 628 thousand 424 or 15.4%, which is not negligible. It follows the principles of 2006 when we talk about the systematic regulation of the registration of real estate in the real estate cadastral, ensuring the completeness of the data and gradually improving the quality of the property. The focus now is on removing administrative barriers, simplifications and the legal security of real estate owners, which we think is extremely important. In this way, the CNS explicitly emphasises the obligation and duty to record and modify data on land and buildings in the cadastre of immovable property, where an exception applies only to facilities of particular importance for the security and defence of the country. The news is also a warning system like an alarm to deal effectively with the shortcomings that we have quite a few. Let's see how many illegal buildings we have to tear down. Finally, I would say that the proposal for a law shows a significant contribution in the right direction, so that the burning situation is settled on a legal basis and also on the ground. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u193	Thank you very much. You've gone a little over time, but let's be because it's Friday. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u194	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The basic objective of the proposal for a real estate cadastral law is to ensure that data are entered into real estate records by fulfilling a multi-purpose role as a basis for the registration of real rights in the land book, namely for tax, spatial, housing, social, statistical and many other purposes. The adoption of the bill justifies the need for regulation: the establishment of basic concepts and their substantive definition, the management of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings in a single record, the establishment of a single procedure, this is a cadastral procedure, the recording of the service area and the area of building rights, the manner in which the building parts are managed and the registration of data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings, and the modification of such data, taking into account the legal security of the property owners and the information recast of real estate records. One concrete solution in the bill is that the data on parcels, buildings and parts of buildings are recorded in a single record, this is a real estate cadastral, and not in three separate records as currently regulated. The Real Estate Catastrophe shall be set up by downloading data from the existing Land Cadastre, the Catastrophe of Buildings and Real Estate Register and by processing and translating these data into the manner and form set out in the proposal of the Law. The Real Estate Cluster will be linked to the Land Book, the Central Population Register and the Business Register and will also allow the connection of all other spatially oriented databases. The bill also establishes a new register of addresses, which is a record of address data in the Republic of Slovenia and has so far been maintained as an integral part of spatial units. In most European countries, this is one of the key registers maintained and maintained by the public administration for the purpose of sharing and operating eGovernment. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will give unanimous support to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u196	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! The clarity, transparency and traceability of data in real estate records are the basis for managing effective social, tax and broader spatial policies at local and national level. Data on the nature of the individual property, data on the rights and duties of owners and users of property are kept in three separate records in the Republic of Slovenia – in the Land Catastrophe, the Catastrophe of Buildings and the Land Book. Separate data management does not so often reflect the actual state of nature, or data is often not harmonised. As a result, this non-coordination affects the exercise of acquired user rights on the one hand and the provision of property owner rights on the other. The connectivity and up-to-date of the different types of property data is thus one of the objectives of the proposed law, and these data will be collected and available in a single record, namely the so-called real estate cadastral. Such arrangements will also allow for a more accurate spatial recording of the rights of users and property owners. Therefore, the proposal for a law enforces the so-called area of building or service rights, within which a description and a branch of the area of future building or service rights will be carried out, which relates only to part of the property. The proposed law also contains solutions aimed at shortening and simplifying the procedures for recording data on the location or surface of a particular property. A single, so-called cadastral procedure shall be established by means of a proposal for a law which will include both the production of geodetic analysis laboratories on the ground and the verification and entry of data into the cadastral property catalogue carried out in the administrative part of the cadastral procedure. The editing and transparency of real estate records has many multiplier effects. In addition to ensuring adequate legal certainty, the possibility of abuse in real estate trading is also limited and consequently strengthens the confidence of potential buyers or tenants. The amendments to the law were prepared at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca and the urgency of the changes goes in the right direction. However, in the LMŠ we must draw attention to certain inconsistencies in the draft law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which have not been abolished by the proposer under the legislative procedure. If I mention just one case. The proposal for a law legitimizes the distinction between property owners holding a land register between the particulars referred to in the mother code or the EMSO and those not registered in the land register. In procedures where the presence of owners is required, the first will be invited to the hearing on the basis of a written invitation and the second will be informed via the information system of the cadastral system or on the website of the Geodetic Administration. And it is not realistic to expect these other owners to monitor the public announcements of the cadastral proceedings on a daily basis; this causes inequality before the law. If I conclude, the bill goes in the right direction, but certain disputed solutions, to which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed, remain in the legislative text. That is why we will not give our votes in the LMŠ proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u198	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State! Enough has been said about this law, so just for a little while. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have examined the law, which has been transmitted to us, carefully and thoroughly. We agree that the area governed by this law should be regulated in a comprehensive and uniform manner, but, on the basis of the comments and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have remained detained in certain articles and are partly concerned. Above all, we are disturbed by the solution that talks about the procedures and ways in which parties are invited and involved in cadastral procedures. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed regulation reduces the constitutional procedural guarantees of the parties in the cadastral proceedings, which, in our view, is controversial and worrying. Therefore, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article and the amendments tabled to Article 87. I am putting to the debate Article 87 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u200	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Since we are discussing the first article, perhaps a little general, then I will not speak again. Many times in this National Assembly, including in individual ministries, we find that some laws adopted in the past and many bureaucratic obstacles make it difficult for the development of Slovenia and for individuals living in this country. The proposal for a real estate cadastral law is a bright spot, and I would like, of course, to commend the Minister, you, the Secretary of State, as well as all the colleagues who participated here. When I listened to the debates as President of the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as well as today's positions of the parliamentary groups, I note that if we want to, of course, in combination with the professions, the ministry and us sitting in this national assembly, we can change these laws that burden and stop development. That's why it's one bright spot. And since much has already been said about the law on the committee, we have also heard today that this should be one example, some incentive for all of us to have some more work on the laws, not only in the Ministry of the Environment, but also in which other ministries, that this is one bright point for our future, that citizens and citizens are no longer burdened by laws, but that they will be relieved in all the procedures they are waiting for. Thank you to the Ministry and to all of you who have seen this in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u202	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! I, too, believe that the proposed law on the cadastral property is a good law and is also in line with the position of the geodesic profession. It follows the general principles of digitisation, informationisation and integration of databases, which I think is very good because it is important that land-booking and geodetic issues can be implemented more quickly, better and more transparently. But I will discuss it a little wider than I have already announced in my position. These days this preliminary data report on the Slovenian real estate market was published. In my position, I have also touched on this report, which I find slightly misleading; it is misleading from this point of view, because the report does not contain the information which it should have and which this cadastral can also provide. When we read this report, it actually gives us a sense or a basis for what is happening with our real estate market. Although transport has fallen, prices are rising, but this report, which is present here, does not really reveal the situation on the Slovenian real estate market, what is happening to housing. I think it would be right if this report also said how many empty and unoccupied apartments there are, how many building permits have been issued, how many housing facilities have been built in the last year and how many apartments will be built in the coming year. If one official writes down in the report, I will read, “in the short term the price of housing and land for their construction in Slovenia is not expected”, you do not even know how many apartments are empty, how many have been built this year, how many will be built next year. It's this information. Such half-information, of course, paves the way for higher prices, which do not have to do with people's income. And even in this report, it could also – as a proposal – indicate the price of housing as compared to the income of the citizen. That someone justifies growth with only low loan prices and their longevity, it does not seem reasonable to me, especially since Germany’s central bank warns that real estate is overestimated by 30%; and as a result, it cites unfavourable demographic and economic trends or structures; and that the Germans are richer than we have a better demographic structure, they have more working people. Until this year our Bank of Slovenia has said that prices are appropriate and we have a poorer structure of the economy and lower revenues. And I also wonder, on the basis of what information the Bank of Slovenia draws such data that its position is so significantly different from that of the German Central Bank. And I also call for such reports, which are also being carried out half a year, this is essentially a preliminary annual report for 2020, to be supplemented by data that will give an integrated picture of what is happening on the market; not only that no one wants to sell the apartment, that cheap credits and prices will continue to rise. In this way, one appropriate housing policy cannot be managed. Once again, I welcome this Real Estate Catastrophe Act, but I want the reports provided by the Geodetic Authority and thus give direction or signal as to what will happen to the real estate market to contain all real data, especially if people are credited for the purchase of real estate for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Love Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! A few words short on the Proposal for a Real Estate Catastrophe Act. I would refer to this law as actually a debirocratic law or one of the many changes that will actually follow this law in all areas. I will be more specific, just from practice I will give a few examples of what is going on in this area. It's true that technology is moving on. We know that cadastral data is becoming more accurate. There will be no more anomalies, because we know how they used to do, if I say the old thing, those catastrophe traps and so on, that this new technology thing is getting smaller. There are fewer and fewer of these anomalies and errors, which have, of course, occurred in practice and were quite inconvenient among owners. We have also been able to see in practice that these procedures have been very long-lasting. This took, I would just say on average, somewhere for at least six months, that you could sort things out through a cadastral, administrative unit, geodetic doses and, of course, with the final registration of the property. If you did it in six months, you were pretty fast. In short, it's getting shorter here. On the other hand, better control is being established in some way. I'll give you an example, say, of the controls that have taken place in the new constructions. We know that these investors who build for the market are all flies. I know the case, instead of building six apartments, he managed to sell them, today these owners can't fix anything because it's not in line with the documentation, it's not in line with the disaster, and so on. There was no such control in the past either. They were mechanisms, but in practice they did not work as they should. And this law also helps to eliminate such anomalies in the future. I know another case like this, it's also on a well-known ski resort in Savina Valley, and there's something about these problems. And this law also establishes control, which is, of course, fair to the one who builds a property, and especially to the one who buys a property. I welcome this law, and I believe it will improve the cadastral picture mainly in practice for all citizens. And, of course, I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 17.29 and resumed at 18. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u206	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 2, 3, 15, 4, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of the follow-up procedure II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law on Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the Government's proposal of 18. 4. 2019, EPA 538-VIII, for the initiation of the follow-up procedure II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law on Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. Before voting, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution, we are moving on to a debate on the draft Constitutional Law and the position of the Constitutional Commission on it. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission were not tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the position submitted. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a position will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission will, on the basis of its position adopted, prepare a proposal for a constitutional law and submit it for consideration to the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 June. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group's new Article 5a. Mr Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u208	Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u209	Procedurally, I said. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask for 30 minutes of recesses for consideration of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u210	Okay. We're adjourning the session, moving on to 18.35. (The sitting was suspended at 18.04 and resumed at 18.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u211	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group's new Article 5a. What explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group of Members for a new Article 5b under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group will become irrelevant for the new Article 5a. Gradually, colleague Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u212	I'd like to ask for a 10-minute break before deciding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u213	I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick it up at 6:46. (The sitting was suspended at 18.36 and resumed at 18.46.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u214	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group's new Article 5b under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group will become irrelevant for the new Article 5a. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group for a new Article 5a under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 41. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 32. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Children in Criminal Procedure and their integrated treatment in the Children's House, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementation to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. Porta Mesec shall have an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I will explain all our amendments to Articles 2 and 5. The amendments to the Budget Implementation Act (ZIPRS) cover three solutions. The first solution is that the government is trying to create a new legal basis for arms purchases. This is because the Constitutional Court, when we collected 30,000 signatures for the referendum, temporarily suspended the implementation of the 780 million arms law. The Constitutional Court said that if a contract had been concluded before the referendum or before the Constitutional Court’s judgment, there would be difficult remedial consequences, which is logical. On the basis of that law, the government could now sign several hundred million contracts, which go beyond the budget of that government; and there are currently no restrictions in this ZIPRS. There is no limit in terms of 780 million, it is said that the amounts are not defined, there is no limitation after years, nor is it envisaged that the government should report on this. In a way, we sign a blank check for arms purchases that are due to take place in the next six years and the contracts are signed in the following year. This is why we are against this law in Levica, and this is also why we said we were going to a referendum on this law or collecting signatures on this law. When we announced the referendum, there was one more thing on the committee: the Government or coalition against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly added to this law an extension of the deadlines for accounting and final reports companies from 31 March to 30 April, which is a good thing we absolutely support. However, the problem is that there is nothing to look for in this law; or the problem is that the potential referendum or retention of this law in the Constitutional Court – and the law is unconstitutional in at least five articles – also keep it. Therefore, with the amendment, we propose that the accounting be cut out of this law and that this be settled in a special law, which we have already tabled yesterday, this is a novel of anti-korona law 7. It will be discussed next week, scheduled for Tuesday, and in this way, before the end of March, without any danger of retaining the accounting solution, we can resolve the matter before the deadline for the submission of final reports and give them this additional month of time. That is why I call on you to support our amendments, of course we will support them, because the vote for these amendments is the vote for accountants to settle outside of this law and that they will not be collateral damage or a hostage of the government, who is trying in an unconstitutional way to provide opportunities for arms purchases.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u217	Thank you very much, President. In the SMC Group of the amendments proposed by the Left, we will not support this because the possible introduction of a constitutional assessment or the collection of signatures for the referendum does not delay the application of this law. Also, the candidates for any constitutional opinion know that it is possible to request a constitutional assessment for only one article, and it is inappropriate here that, on the basis of a political struggle, they engage and predict a constitutional assessment of the whole law. Only after the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision on provisional detention may the law no longer be implemented. It shall also be decided by the Constitutional Court for a period of time, and in the meantime the law shall apply; and the postponement of the time limit shall also apply for one month for the submission of accounting reports. For this reason, we estimate that the manoeuvre with some possible new law, the novelty of an antikorona package, is inappropriate, political pier and manoeuvre, that the one who predicted it is willing to sell as a solver of accounting services. The solution is in this law, which we will now confirm and adopt. However, if it is true, as the drafter of these amendments had previously announced, that the law of the Member will be passed within the next week, this will be an incredible precedent and usurpation of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5a under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2. Mr Luka Moon has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u219	Okay, I'll explain. Article 2 which you have now voted against referred to researchers. These amendments to Article 5 refer to the accounting services I spoke of most of my views earlier. However, if we go to collect signatures for the referendum, the law does not apply. First of all, seven days after adoption, it does not apply because we have all qualified candidates or the initiators of the referendum the possibility of collecting signatures, or the State Council has the opportunity to postpone the veto. But when we bring 2,000,500 signatures, the President of the National Assembly has seven days of time. Then it takes 35 days to collect 40,000 signatures. If the matter gets stuck in the Constitutional Court in the meantime, the law may not apply for quite some time; therefore, it is wise for the accounting services to be set up separately, as I said before, that we should not allow the collateral damage to any dispute that is absolutely not their concern. We have prepared the law in Levica, it is put into parliamentary procedure and will be dealt with at the beginning of next week, it is said that the matter can be resolved before the end of March. We will, of course, support the amendments to Article 5, because they are a solution to this situation. Otherwise, I suggest that those who think that the referendum procedure does not in any way affect the validity of the law take a break and discuss or verify the procedures for not voting in mind or in ignorance do harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u221	Yes, once again, I also predict here that the SMC Group will vote against this amendment because we do not want the accounting services to become hostages of the political struggle and the positioning of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5a under Article 2. Matjaž Han has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have tabled this amendment because we are aware that the accountants, due to a bunch of new rules that were created during the epidemic, have immeasurable problems. Last year they had two months to submit their reports. We believe that this should be extended for another month. This isn't about bidding. We are aware that there are serious problems ahead of us, so we propose that this deadline be extended by three months. However, so that the next amendment, the President, is not yet explained; we have also made a new Article 5a of the amendment. We are aware that the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian military is in the Constitutional Court. And until the Constitutional Court in some way resolves or gives its opinion to this effect, so much remains and then this ZIPS is valid. In the meantime, we will essentially save the accountants, so please support our amendment, which will facilitate the work of accounting services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 5b under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5b under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5c under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5c under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 5. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 5d under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5d under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group of Members for a new Article 5th. A colleague of mags. Dejan Židan has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Here is the reason why our amendment needs to be supported, quite simple. Because this protects Slovenian constitutional order. Today I have shown you the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which on almost seven pages explains why what is written here is unconstitutional. And the arguments that convince us to accept our amendment, which at least partially or partially solves the constitutional issue, are as follows. Until the Constitutional Court decides on a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law relating to investments in the Slovenian Army, in breach of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, the Legislative and Legal Service shall state the reasons why the amendment of Article 30 of the ZIPRS, i.e. the law we are now adopting, could be in breach of the Constitution. Let me get on with it. The adoption of the proposed amendment to Article 30 of the ZIPRS would constitute the legal basis for accepting the obligation to invest in the Slovenian Army in the burden of future budgets before the adoption of the final decision of the Constitutional Court in breach of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. As a result, it would also imply a lack of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend the law on investments in the Slovenian Army. So when we vote on our amendment, we actually vote on whether we respect and protect Slovenia's legal order, constitutional order; or not. Thank you for your word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. The explanation of vote shall be given by Luka Mesec on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote against this law in Levica because it regulates the legal basis for the purchase of weapons, which is currently being stopped at the Constitutional Court when it has endured the 780 million law. We are against this because the government has chosen the wrong social priorities. The covida-19 crisis has revealed that we are weak or have problems in the area of health care, in the area of long-term care, in the area of housing. How many young people must now return to their parents because they do not have a roof over their heads; but the priority of this government is 780 million — or potentially even more — because all of these businesses are very quick to attract — for weapons in the next six years. A comparable investment will not be in health care, not in long-term care, not in apartments, not elsewhere; weapons are a priority. We are protesting against such priorities, as we are in the fall, we will now. And that's the first substantive reason why I'm predicting we're going to collect signatures for the referendum tomorrow. The second reason for the referendum is that this law is unconstitutional. I have been in the National Assembly for seven years, and I have never before seen a constitutional court retain a law because it is judged whether the referendum is admissible or not; and the government would go over it with a new legal basis. This is outrageous. This shouldn't even be on the agenda. The legal and legal service itself said that this was contrary to or in a potential conflict with as many as five articles of the Constitution: Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that we are a democratic state; Article 2 of which states that we are a rule of law; Article 3 of which states that the authority of the people is in Slovenia; Article 44 of which gives the people the right to participate in public affairs; and Article 90 of which regulates the right to a referendum. With all these articles, the fundamentals of our state regulation are in conflict. And this law also destroys the right to a referendum. Even if the Constitutional Court now finds that the 780 million law referendum is admissible, this is accepted, and we can have a referendum and the people can decide that it is against the purchase of weapons; the government will carry it out on another legal basis. That way we can't go. Whether we are a democratic, legal or orderly state; or not. And so I repeat, we will vote against the law. Tomorrow, we will see you at the stands all over Slovenia, where we will most likely collect the necessary signatures for the subsequent legislative referendum as we did last day.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 33. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and Work of Foreigners, in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 14. Comrade Primož Siter has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Members and Members of the Left will be supported by the amendment. The government, by means of a proposal in this Article, is thus ordering the expulsion of foreign workers if these six months have not been included in the social security system, which is, of course, unfair, and it is also technically pointless. Explain why. First of all, that the worker does not have paid contributions is, in most cases, whether the worker is a foreigner or a domestic worker, the employer is guilty. So we cannot punish a worker by expelling him from his sin if his employer is to blame. This situation may also occur if a worker in Slovenia has lost his job or is not entitled to a financial compensation for unemployment, which is also the case in the case of vulnerable employers when they are separated by uneducated workers on the basis of some, in the notes, contractual termination of the employment relationship, or if the worker is entitled to a financial compensation. What appears most often and is particularly painful in foreign workers is that if they lose their job, they seek a job, they are successful in their search, they find a job, they stay in Slovenia at this time, they pay taxes and contribute, as we all contribute; then they regulate the papers in the eternal mill of state bureaucracy, which lasts and lasts. And these procedures for foreigners are painfully long-lasting in Slovenia. At that time, it may take six months for these people to have a regular job, a future and a vision of how to continue to contribute, so stop because it has been six months. And then a foreigner can be banished either because of the employer's sin or because of the sin of state bureaucracy, because he is placed in a hopeless, impossible position. And that is why, of course, it makes sense to support our amendment, which eliminates this inconvenience. Secondly, the most evident truth of this government measure, which is nationalism, which branches, respects and respects, from every season of such measures and government proposals, this time in the field of workers' rights. So our amendment also points to such unhealthy political practice with a finger. As this controversial article with the amendment cannot be deleted from the draft law as there has been a scenario on the working body, we are now proposing a different solution in Levica, namely the suspension of the entry into force of the new third paragraph38. Article 2025. In the meantime, however, colleagues and colleagues will be able to delete this disputed provision from the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 6(1). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 6 becomes irrelevant. Ms Nataša Sukič has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We propose in Levica that this article be deleted, and of course we will support this amendment. What's this all about? It is an extremely controversial institute which has been attached to this amendment of the Foreign Act, an institution of activation of the so-called complex crisis, which the National Assembly, by a majority of votes, is expected to activate, even though Slovenia is party to many international conventions. This regime could, in the event of a declaration of a complex crisis, make it possible to reject the intention to apply for international protection and, of course, is totally contrary to the provisions of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, the Geneva Convention and so on. Let me also mention that, in a similar case, until such a suspension has already been defined by the Constitutional Court on 18 September 2019, when it has pointed out that the principle of non-refoulement, which is covered by Article 18 of our Constitution, prohibits that a person who is at real risk of being subjected to inhumane conduct in the event of return to his country of origin cannot be extradited to that State or expelled back. In addition, the proposed provisions do not provide for an automatic suspension effect of a complaint against a decision to dismiss an individual’s intention to submit an application for international protection. What does that mean in practice? Simply so that before the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, an individual could be returned to the country from which he came. Such a provision constitutes a violation of the right to an effective remedy and, moreover, does not provide sufficient protection against the return ban which I mentioned earlier, as the correctness and legality of the contested decision in practice will not be effectively challenged by an individual. I therefore propose that we simply delete this article and support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 5 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment of Article 6 of the same proposal has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 6 under Article 2 and on the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSi to Article 6 of Article 3. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 29 under Article 1 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 29 under Article 2. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. Ms Nataša Sukič has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We propose that the first and second sentences be deleted in paragraph 1. What's this all about? Foreign workers, although Slovenia needs demographic reinforcements and additional power in the labour market, would in any case make it difficult for their families to arrive, by extending the period of merger by one year, as now, to two years. This seems to us to be an extremely discriminatory measure that is harmful to family life and violates children's right to live with both parents. Therefore, the amendment proposes to maintain the current regime, which provides for family reunification for one year of residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 35. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to the 50th Article under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 50(2). We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 51. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 57. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 58. Ms Nataša Sukić has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u235	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we propose that you support our amendment, which says that the article should be deleted. Why? This is a more stringent police surveillance measure, which actually means female. Excessive interference with the individual's right to personal freedom and a continuous rigorous test of proportionality. The proposal would introduce a strict imprisonment measure of up to six months to be ordered by the police, and this is obviously disproportionate to our legal regime when the seizure of liberty can only be carried out on the basis of a court judgment or in the event of detention due to the needs of the criminal justice process. And here this prison would be ordered by the police without any kind of procedure. It is said that in no way can such a restriction on freedom have the nature of the criminal sanctions imposed by the police. I hope we understand all this and that you will support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 66. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Rule 103a. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill had been put forward in debate, the assembly, pursuant to paragraph 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at that meeting, carried out a third consideration of the bill, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. There is no explanation, this is a procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 15. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to submit an amendment to this Article. No, no, no. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u237	Yes, I think that in view of the amendments adopted, the amendment to Article 15 should be aligned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u238	We're at Article 6. Just a minute. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Does the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service wish to speak in connection with the harmonisation of the law? No, no, no. The government? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u239	As I said, in the light of the amendments adopted at the hearing, an amendment to Article 15 is required where, in the third paragraph of Article 33, a comma and the text “covering all emergency health services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia” are added after the words “appropriate health insurance”. The third paragraph shall be amended to read: “For the issue of the first temporary residence permit, for the extension of the residence permit, for the issue of further residence permits or for the issue of a permanent residence permit, the alien may demonstrate the fulfilment of the conditions of sufficient means of subsistence by means of means which he has provided himself with his own work, work rights or insurance, with the exception of the reimbursement of labour costs, property income, capital income and other resources, or by means of those who are obliged to survive, a grant or an account opened to a bank or a store in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad.” The fourth sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Since the Government has warned that the bill is inconsistent, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Tuesday, 30. 3. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 4 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. My colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We propose that this Article be deleted. Why? The proposed amendments cover a new condition for the appointment of refugee advisers, namely their security verification. Such security checks shall not be provided for lawyers, judges, prosecutors or other legal professionals. It is also already provided for in the law that refugee advisers must submit a certificate of impunity during the appointment process. In doing so, it is not clear what security checks will actually cover. Counsellors for refugees as well as lawyers are bound by the duty of professional secrecy, Article 6 of the Law on Lawyers, and the Counsellor for Refugees provides legal assistance to his clients, including representation in judicial proceedings. Its role is essential in the exercise of the right to judicial protection, the right to a remedy and the guarantees of fair proceedings. Its duty to protect this secrecy is the basis of a confidential relationship between the Refugee Advisor and his client, which intertwines all aspects of privacy from general to spatial, communication and informational. The Refugee Adviser is committed to the protection of professional secrecy, which is the basis of a confidential relationship established for the protection of the constitutional rights of the authorising officer, and therefore the proposal for a law in Article 4 is inadmissible in this relationship and we therefore propose that it be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 4 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 8 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. Nataša Sukič has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Here too, we propose that this article be deleted, because in the case of legitimate representatives, the provisions applicable to lawyers in respect of the protection of confidentiality of the data shall apply mutatis mutandis. They are also bound by the duty of professional secrecy. The task of a legal representative shall be to act in the best interests of the minor. The confidentiality of the relationship between unaccompanied minors and the legitimate representative in which all aspects of privacy are intertwined is essential for the performance of the task and the right to privacy in the professional field must not be unduly affected by the State. This proposed legal provision interferes with as many as three articles of our Constitution — 35, 36, and 37. Please be aware that this is actually a constitutionally disputed matter; and therefore we propose a deletion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're at the 8th. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 8 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 20. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 25. Nataša Sukič has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u245	Thank you. Here, too, we propose that the article be deleted. Why? The provision of applicants for international protection in this case requires the acquisition of identification documents from the countries of origin if, for example, the person does not have a document, which is absurd. If we know that international protection is sought by persons who may be in danger of death. They may be in a situation such as a citizen of the Democratic Republic of the Congo who has not been granted international protection by Slovenia, even though the rape was used as a war means. And such persons must not be exposed in their home countries, their identities. We would do so with this legislation and this is unacceptable, so we propose that this article be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 37. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 47. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to the 40th Article under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. Nataša Sukič has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u247	We propose that the article be amended by deleting the first, sixth, tenth and eleventh indents. Why? The definition of the danger of escape is too wide in this proposal and goes beyond the definition of complacency because they point to punishment. It is a matter of punishing applicants for offences duly regulated in the field legislation. Only a lack of respect for the rule of law cannot sufficiently justify a real link to the assumption that an asylum seeker will escape and that a movement restriction measure may be imposed on him to do so. These are completely unrelated things, so we suggest you support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-26-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 40 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 49. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 47. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Real Estate Catastrophe Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2021. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 87. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the motion for a bill proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at that meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 87 of the amended law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 67th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, 29. 3. 2021, 9:00 p.m.
